Constance Chatterley's gamekeeper, Mellors, brings out the animal in Her Ladyship, and he extends the protection to her that he does to all the wild game in the wood.  It is Mellors himself who, in the end, understands that his own baronet, Sir Clifford, is the greatest threat to his most vulnerable charge.  Constance's own father, Sir Malcolm, fails utterly to appreciate the situation when he refers to Mellors as the quintessential poacher himself.  Sir Malcolm's mistake is that he, along with all of polite society, fails to recognize that humans are, in fact, animals, and that the thrill of conjugal intimacy unites us with all other fauna.  We strayed from this notion long ago, with Plato extolling virtuous love, and referring to passions and desires as evil (Book IX of the Phaedrus).   

Sir Clifford, who is impotent as a result of war injuries, suggests to his wife that she have a discrete affair in order to produce an heir to the estate.   "I don't care who his father may be as long as he is a healthy man not below normal intelligence."  His admonition that Connie be careful not to fall in love in the process foreshadows his tragedy.  When we see the gamekeeper, Mellors, placing pheasant eggs into the nests of chickens, in order that they may be reared by surrogate hens, we know, before any of the protagonists themselves, just who Lady Chatterley's surrogate husband will be.  Ultimately Connie discovers that Mellors has that rarest of qualities in a man; he enjoys making love only when his partner enjoys it, too.  These feelings are a sharp contrast with her experience as well as his, and they are both immediately ensnared in a tense carnal conspiracy.

In the process, we are treated to D. H. Lawrence's craft:

"Both sisters mixed with...the young Cambridge group, the group that stood for 'freedom' and flannel trousers, and soft shirts open at the neck, and a well-bred sort of emotional anarchy..., and an ultra-sensitive sort of manner."

Tevershall village had "rows of wretched, small begrimed brick houses with black slate roofs for lids, sharp angles, and willful blank dreariness."

One attraction of her first lover, Michalis, is that he had his own ideas and stated them clearly; "he didn't merely walk round them with millions of words, in the parade of the life of the mind."

Sir Clifford "seemed alert in the foreground, but the background was like the Midlands atmosphere, haze, smoky mist."

Before her affair with Mellors, Connie saw sex as "just a cocktail term for an excitement that bucked you up for a while, then left you more raggy than ever."

Connie realizes of Clifford that, "like many insane people, his insanity might be measured by the things he was not aware of: the great desert tracts in his consciousness."

"She saw her own nakedness in his eyes..." 

This book will not titillate the reader of 2006 as it did the reader of 1928.  The reaction against it then exposed both widespread hypocrisy and a scientifically illiterate, pre-Kinsey society which extolled Platonic values, and in the process denied the incomparable delight of primitive intimacy.

