I'm not sure what all the hoopla is about.  Compared to "The Island of the Day Before", Eco's "Pendulum" is a lighthearted ditty of a story.  Certainly it doesn't have the cohesion of "The Name of the Rose", but then, it's not meant to.

F.P. is the sort of book that Dan Brown would have written if he weren't an untalented moron, and certainly, given its strong modernist interpretation of history, Eco serves as a necessary precursor to the gnostic romanticism that pervades modern culture.  In this sense, Eco is sort of the quintessential European Author.  He wears his bored intellectualism smugly on his sleeve.  Unlike the puerile Brown, Eco has a mastery of abstract reasoning to back up his hilarious tale.

For the unitiated, F.P. is the story of some two-bit hustlers who are in the business of fleecing self-publishing authors, their speciality being the occult.  This brings them in contact with the dregs of the subculture, and as their experiment into tying all of the occult theories together gains momentum, they find themselves sucked into a world of True-Believers.

The web that Eco weaves is indeed complex, and it apparently proves distracting for a number of readers, although Eco intends it to be hypnotizing rather than distracting.  One has only to talk to a convinced Freemason to realize that Eco is painting an accurate picture of the conspiring/occult world, but Eco's motive or theme is compromised by this convergence with reality.  Where "The Name of the Rose" was a revisionist (and temporally misplaced) assault on the Catholic Church, "Foucault's Pendulum" is a postmodern manifesto.  Eco attempts by profusion of facts, absurdity of plot, and ever so slight phase-separation from reality, to bring confusion to the reader's mind and create a distrust of any belief system whatsoever.

Unfortunately, Eco, despite his legitimate intellectual standing, is little more than a would-be heretic in an age where even heresy is ignored.  One longs to see Eco transported back in time, when he could nail his theses to the door of the Church and be taken seriously.  He is, in many regards, similar to Chesterton's atheist in "The Ball and the Cross" - a post-revolution rebel.  As one of the failing adherants of the fad-science of semiotics, Eco sadly carries the banner of 1960's pop-philosophy into the world he and his ilk created.  And Foucault's Pendulum, being ultimately dwarfed by its legitimate heir "The Da Vinci Code", is a poignant reminder that one knows the tree by the fruit that it bears.

All this being said, Foucault's Pendulum is the summit of Eco's work - a brilliant creation of complexity and imagination, demonstrating the author's ability to absorb and hold in place an impressive body of knowledge, and to relay it to the reader in a gripping, dynamic plot.  Eco praises his own Creator unconsciously in this sincere imitation.  Sadly for Eco, his book lacks the one thing he could not give it: a soul
