Even Americans cognizant of its relatively short but oh so rich history, tend to come up short when it comes to knowledge of the years prior to the Revolutionary War. In John Ferling's comprehensive book, A LEAP IN THE DARK, history lovers can fill much of that knowledge gap with one-stop shopping. There are seemingly endless sources available about the Revolutionary War itself and the entire founding events, but the primary focus here is on the three decades prior to the fight for independence. The book also extends through the war and up to the election of Jefferson in 1800. Many throughout the world, saw the smooth transition from Adams' federalist administration to the new Jeffersonian administration as a clear indication that the new government would indeed, succeed.

John Ferling, professor of history at the University of West Georgia and author of several great biographies, begins his narrative in the 1750's and covers critical events that led up to Colonial dissent such as the French and Indian War and how it affected the colonists, British failure to support Franklin's Albany Plan, James Otis and his powerful stance against the British writs of assistance, the Stamp Act and Townsend Acts of the 1760's, Boston Tea Party and so on. Not only are the events well outlined, but Ferling expertly critiques how the events spurred on the colonials in their quest for independence.

Not only does Ferling give outstanding narrative about the historically significant events, but also expertly intertwines critical information about the major and minor players on both sides such as the first combat experience of a young George Washington who was leading a royal mission in what was then called the Ohio Country to the French forces. You will also find an array of intricate details that took place in the realm of the larger, more well known picture. A sort of "look behind the scenes" if you will. 

Ferling has long been established as a leading figure among founding historians and this book will not let the reader down. The book is well researched and meticulously accurate and is an absolute pleasure to read. As with all of Ferling's work, this one flows with a constructive narrative that is lively and will hold the reader's interest to the end. 

Monty Rainey
www.juntosociety.com
