Like many, I'm sure you've been faced with an overwhelming or ugly task that you just keep putting off.  Brian Tracy covers some ways to get out of that rut in the book Eat That Frog! 21 Great Ways to Stop Procrastinating and Get More Done in Less Time.  This is one of those reads that is probably best if you've never delved into self-improvement or time management books before...

Contents: Set the Table; Plan Every Day in Advance; Apply the 80/20 Rule to Everything; Consider the Consequences; Practice the ABCDE Method Continually; Focus on Key Result Areas; Obey the Law of Forced Efficiency; Prepare Thoroughly Before You Begin; Do Your Homework; Leverage Your Special Talents; Identify Your Key Constraints; Take It One Oil Barrel at a Time; Put the Pressure on Yourself; Maximize Your Personal Powers; Motivate Yourself into Action; Practice Creative Procrastination; Do the Most Difficult Task First; Slice and Dice the Task; Create Large Chunks of Time; Develop a Sense of Urgency; Single Handle Every Task; Conclusion - Putting It All Together; Learning Resources of Brian Tracy International; Index; About the Author

The "frog" mentioned here is the old adage about eating frogs first thing in the morning.  If you eat the ugliest frog first, everything else will seem easy by comparison afterwards.  All the suggestions and ideas that Tracy presents are tied back into the "frog" theme, which make the chapters a bit easier to remember and help to lend a cohesive feel to all the material.

On the positive side, these suggestions do work to help you become more efficient at whatever you're doing.  As you can probably tell from each chapter title, the concepts are pretty much common sense, but they're easy to ignore or overlook when you're in the downward spiral of overwork.  Given that each chapter is only two to four pages, it's not a laborious task to grasp the concept being presented so that you can apply it to your particular situation.  On the down side, if you've read any self-improvement or efficiency books before, most of this will be familiar to you.  I don't know how much new stuff you'll come away with.  And if you're a follower of the Getting Things Done method of personal productivity, you'll likely have issues with the reliance on lists and prioritizing your to-do list.

It's a fun, quick read, and a single idea might be all you need to make a large leap forward in your personal productivity.  Just don't expect any groundbreaking, original stuff
