Some readers will be bothered by the fact that there is no major character in THE MARCH. A dozen or more characters take center stage. There are so many that you will find yourself paging back to the beginning to find out who the heck a certain character is. And to compound the frustration, Doctorow does not hesitate to introduce new viewpoint characters well into the book. However, once you get used to the unusual structure, THE MARCH is definitely an enjoyable read.

	Sherman himself proves to be an entirely different character than the "War is Hell" personage in the history books. He wears a disheveled uniform, rides a nondescript horse, and consorts with enlisted men. He's such a loveable character his men call him "Uncle Billy." At one point, he even refuses to destroy Johnson's army because he wants the thousands of Johnny Rebs he would have to kill to have a chance to return to their farms after the war. Definitely not the advocate of modern warfare we learned about in school. 

	My favorite character, and the one who kept me turning pages, was Arly, a confederate prisoner, who had been jailed for falling asleep on watch, by his own army. He and his friend Will are freed when Major General Nathaniel Wayne recruits them to fight for his militia.
Arly is definitely "street smart." At one point, after switching to the Union side, they see union soldiers on leave heading for a brothel. But they don't have any money. Arly finds a church, knocks over the collection box and some of the money sticks to his fingers.

	Wrede Sartorius, union surgeon; David, a six-year-old slave who makes a dash for his freedom; fifteen-year-old mulatto Pearl; Mattie Jameson, wife of a plantation owner John Jameson; their two worthless sons, John Jr. and Jamie; union soldier Stephen Walsh, who falls in love with Pearl; Emily Thompson, Wrede's nurse, and a British war correspondent each contribute their own stories during the overall march up the coastline where Sherman will join Grant's army.

	Since the ending is so familiar to any student of American History, Doctorow must rely on his fictional characters to create an effective denouement. And that's where the novel fails to satisfy. Nothing much happens that isn't predictable. Even Arly's resolution is disappointing.

