	
	  "Your Marketing Sucks" takes an in depth look into how many companies make the mistake of spending millions of dollars on marketing without taking the time to research or monitor the programs that have the most effective results.  Marketing should bring more than one dollar for every dollar spent.  If this idea is not implemented in today's business world it is due to the lack of either motivation or ability to market.  The first step in successful marketing is to know your product and have the ability to sell it.  This knowledge, when combined with the tactic of extreme marketing, forms the most effective practice in the business world today.
	  This book clearly shows both positive and negative forms of marketing and their implementation.  The seven key reasons that marketing "sucks" is an eye opener for all novice marketers.  This information shows ways to avoid the same monetarily costly mistakes that others have made before.  Such fundamental mistakes are accepting generalities, launching expensive programs without any new ideas, and ignoring available research.  
	  The mistake of accepting generalities is best shown by the example of taking the production of others marketing schemes as the limit for what can be achieved.   The execution of others may have been bad or their product obsolete, so taking their findings as fact would be inaccurate.  When companies launch expensive programs without new ideas it is simply lack of creativity.  Successful marketers must have a distinguishable trait to set them apart from their competitors.  Another mistake is made when companies will not take the chance to corral an ideal market because they do not use the research findings of others.  The chance to grab client's name and addresses with perfect income levels only comes around ever so often, and many companies let these beneficial opportunities slip by.
	  A very simple yet astonishingly insightful quote states "The only acceptable return on your marketing dollars are sales." Marketing techniques must be designed to bring in profitable sales.  This is brought about by planning and detailing the marketing process.   When all is said and done it does not matter how the sale was attained or the marketing tactic that was used for gaining clients, it all comes back to the almighty dollar/sales.
	  The revolution of active versus passive marketing for accountants in the 1970s is outlined in this book.  Research disproved the idea that waiting for the phone to ring was a way to seem professional.  The firms that actively pursued new clients who were already with other accountants proved to be effective and set a precedent for other industries to emulate and follow.  This exposed what has become known as the lazy marketer.  Anytime the client has to research or pick up the phone to call you then you are not reaching a sector of business that could significantly grow your company.  It is the company's job to get to these potential customers before they stumble onto a competitor by chance.
	  When deciding what marketing tactic to use most companies implement one at a time.  The most profitable way is to implement numerous tactics at the same time.  This process ensures that the variety of tactics reinforce each other and then in the end the message is communicated more effectively and efficiently.  These tactics should be monitored to discover which is most profitable for the company.
	  In the end, the key to extreme and successful marketing differs between companies.  Each should discover what tactics bring in the most sales for them.  Getting rid of useless marketing is an important and profitable practice, which should be reevaluated regularly to maximize the bottom line.  
