Research Professor Derek Bok's "Our Underachieving Colleges" (2006, hardback) presents a new way of thinking about education in American colleges.  Understanding that his presentation could create academic criticism, Bok builds his argument upon a substantial foundation of convincing research (with 49 pages of endnotes).  

Suggesting that American undergraduate education produces a global affect that results in stiff foreign competition, Bok challenges U.S. colleges to reorganize, with candid faculty reappraisal, in order "to lift the performance of our institutions of higher learning to new and higher levels" (page 6).  He says that American education may no longer take teaching and learning for granted.  He frets that college students are learning less now that in the 1960s and 1970s (history's most anti-education era).  Bok presents this book to show how students learn and how colleges effect student development.  

The author proposes that college faculty should be prepared to change its teaching methods (principally lecturing) for the benefit of students.  Bok correctly believes that the college's tasks involve teaching undergraduates to think critically (chapter 5), actively communicate (chapter 4), build moral character (chapter 6), and prepare for good citizenship (chapter 7).  He questionably believes that teaching diversity, multiculturalism, and specializing in career preparation should be important in American education.  

The best part of this book is Bok's presentation of Eric Mazur's quantitative teaching application (pages 132-34).  I plan to implement Mazur's process in my next teaching forum.  The book is least helpful in suggesting that group learning is better than lecturing (pages 118-123).  Although lecture teaching does present certain challenges in assessing learning, group work (where student discussion takes over from professorial guidance) is vastly inferior to most other teaching methods.  It is almost impossible to gauge individual learning form group exercises.  (Group work relieves teacher responsibility while promoting aggressive students.  Because teachers guide classes, give tests and award grades, student group work should be kept to an extreme minimum.)  

"Our Underachieving Colleges" is a responsible presentation about how American colleges may reform themselves to lead 21st century worldwide and teaching learning.  Bok's argument is persuasive and his wisdom is profound.  This book is recommended to all concerned with U.S. higher education, teaching reform, and looking for new teaching methods.  Order your copy soon.  
