"Look what the educational system does to creativity. Every child learns at a very early stage that when they're asked a question in school they must first ask themselves a question: What answer does the asker expect? That's the way you get through school, by providing people with the answers they expect. Now, one thing about an answer that somebody else expects is it can't be creative because it's already known. What we ought to be trying to do with children is get them to give us answers that we don't expect-to stimulate creativity. We kill it in school." 

-Ackoff, The Deming Library, Vol. 21

Russell Ackoff, an expert in the field of operations research and systems thinking whose famous quote about the educational system is shown above, and Sheldon Rovin, a leading figure in healthcare management, here share their thoughts on the importance of defeating bureaucracies in today's society.  They present their case by listing off examples of common bureaucratic inefficiencies being either side-stepped or called to attention by "system beaters."  These system beaters, whom Ackoff and Rovin claim are ordinary, frustrated members of society, all display fundamental creative behaviors: the ability to deny an underlying assumption, to explore that denial, to defer judgment in that exploration, etc.  This book will doubtfully transform the reader into an everyday system beater; it certainly did not do so for me.  It does, however, provide the reader with a deep set of examples on creative behavior and may set them on the right path when it comes to thinking outside the box and generating more meaningful solutions when dealing with their own problems.
 	The structure of the book (a brief introduction on the authors' system-beating theory, presentation of the cases, summary of the behaviors displayed in these cases, possible applications of these theories derived from these summaries) makes it an extremely easy read.  Often, though, the cases are over-simplified by the addition of the authors' own unnecessary and ambiguous morals.  The authors' conclusions are also extremely broad which detracts from the specific methods of creative behavior described earlier in the text.  Despite these short-comings, however, the book provides an excellent resource for those attempting to be more creative in their everyday lives.
