First a simple test. To whom was FBI Director, J. Edgar Hoover referring when he wrote to President Nixon's Chief of Staff, H.R. Haldeman, &quot;[He is]...a paradox because he is difficult to judge by the normal standards of  civilized life....His main reason for being is to destroy, blindly and  indiscriminately, to tear down and provoke chaos....&quot;?  Adolf Hitler  maybe, or some seminal Osama bin-Laden? Of course not, as you already know  it was none other than our friendly, pudgy-faced, mop-headed, evil genius,  that heinous John Lennon, composer of such bellicose anthems as  &quot;Imagine&quot; and &quot;Give Peace a Chance.&quot; Reason enough to  warrant the FBI's surveillance of the man for 24 hours a day, for years on  end? Well, not really, but they did it anyway.      This book details the  efforts by the author, Jon Wiener, and two ACLU attorneys, Mark Rosenbaum  and Dan Marmalefsky, to obtain the 200 odd pages of documents held by the  FBI on Mr. Lennon, that the agency had refused to release, (typically on  grounds of either national security or ostensibly to protect confidential  sources). To this end the attorneys employed the Freedom of Information Act  (FOIA) as their basis to obtain these documents. The run-around that they  were given by the government should be nothing new to students of previous  such encounters, and the fact that it took 15 years to achieve it should  not prove too surprising either.     But without doubt the central point of  this book, and one that cannot be overemphasized, is that it was the FBI  (acting outside of its own charter and the explicit instructions contained  in the FOIA) that violated the law, while finding no criminal activity on  the part of Mr. Lennon. Possibly I'm too old, too jaded or just plain too  cynical to be surprised to find out that the government, or its  representatives, are capable of lying, placing illegal wire-taps,  harassment, obfuscation and underhandedness. Certainly all of that happened  here, and it is hats off to Rosenbaum and Marmalefsky for uncovering much  of the skullduggery.      Although most of the information on Mr. Lennon  that was unearthed as a result of this effort was largely already known to  any diligent reader of, for example, &quot;Rolling Stone&quot; magazine,  following the trail of the hearings and legal arguments is a fascinating  and worthwhile one, and the book's final chapter was (for me, at least) an  eye-opener
