I was told to go and read Bagley, so that I would know what in heck I am talking about when discussing the MMM. Well, taking no offense, that is what I did: even bought it from Amazon too. Took me less than three weeks, in between other activities and reading, to plow through Blood of the Prophets.

After I was done, I knew a lot of things that I had not heard before; little details that are intriguing, such as discovering just how well known John D. Lee was as a legendary character even in his own lifetime. And that his trial was a media event not equalled until the Lindbergh trial, and not exceeded until the trial of O. J. Simpson. That kind of comparative context resonates with me: the Lee trial at the time was BIG news.

I have come away with a lot of these kinds of details, but my views on the MMM have not changed much. The main change has to be that I do accept that Brigham Young had directly a lot more to do with the attack at Mountain Meadows than I appreciated before. The emotional climate in Utah territory was entirely his fault: a religious reformation (recommitment to fully live fundamentalist Mormonism) was afoot, which the emigrants walked all unknowing squarely into the middle of. Had they had any real concept of just how high the Mormons' feelings were running, they would have bent over backwards to be polite, instead of being openly angry, and even verbally abusive (which seems evident on the basis of the scanty, contradictory evidence).

The MMM could not have happened, had the Missouri and Illinois persecutions (pogroms) against the Mormons not occurred. And those atrocities would not have occurred if the Mormon leaders had not been such fire eaters in their Millennial and apocalyptic preaching: Rigdon's "Salt Sermon" set the Mob off again in 1838, after several years of relatively peaceful coexistence. Joseph Smith's arrival in Missouri combined with his public efforts to implement the law of consecration (and his own religious reformation) produced a violent reaction against his people. That episode, combined with the death of their prophets, and their expulsion from the Union, drove the Mormons into a desperate battle of survival in the wilderness: then within ten years, the Union was hounding them again, and their enemies of the "Mob" were making threats.

Bagley makes it obvious that the later legendary (rumor mill) material that painted the Fancher-Baker party in the blackest dye, was not founded on truth. But he downplays the fact that the Mormons around Cedar city believed the emigrants were indeed their enemies, and included some of the very persons who had slain Joseph, Hyrum his brother, and very recently, P. P. Pratt, their most beloved apostle. Without that conviction, and a feeling of vengeance for past wrongs, all of Brigham Young's preaching and "warmongering" would have fallen on deaf ears.

So it is the combination of the persecutions, the religious reformation of the late 1850's, the coming threat of Federal supression and dispossession, the passing through Utah territory of perceived "gentile" enemies, and Young's standing order to not let such enemies pass through their lands with impunity, which drove the military action against the Fancher-Baker train. It was initially exactly that: a military action against an enemy. But it quickly become something else entirely: a siege against innocent women and children. The Indians played little or no significant part in the final solution: the treacherous disarmament and killing of the adults and older children. Later, the participants to a man swore that they had been following orders (when they admitted to being involved at all that is).

Bagley's main points are well drawn, and I agree that the entire book brought them out very well:

It was P. P. Pratt's widow "fingering" the Fancher party as the murderers of her late husband (and containing some of the murderers of Joseph and Hyrum Smith) which sealed the doom of that particular wagon train (a number of other trains were on the road through central Utah to California and all made it there without loss of life - although their property was largely plundered by Indians and Mormon "interpreters").

Brigham Young was an accessory after the fact of the massacre, but, for lack of evidence, cannot be accused of ordering the massacre. (If there was any evidence to the contrary, Bagley would be more than happy to have provided it; "[he doesn't] like Brigham Young."

The massacre was not a crime of "renegade" or "rogue" Mormons, but an act of true believers, who were obeying their most solemn, temple endowment covenant to "avenge the blood of the prophets."

Brigham Young stands personally responsible for creating the climate in Utah territory in which the massacre could take place: therefore he as prophet of the church shares the blame for instigating the massacre.

All of this violence was looked upon by the Mormons as justifed acts of war and self defense and vengeance.

Yet after all the evidence is examined we must conclude that the killing of even a single person in the Fancher-Baker party was unjustified.

This is what can be expected to occur, when a religious people are so devoted to the principle of following a prophet, that they turn off their own thoughts and feelings of what is right and wrong in order to carry out their commands in full obedience.

Those are the main points that Bagley makes.

But just because the MMM is viewed as a crime now does not mean that the Mormons thought of it in those terms back then. The great majority of members of the church then were horrified by it, and even disbelieved it without the atrocity stories attributed to the emigrants: but even today, far more Mormons are unwilling to look upon the MMM as anything less than an act justified by the conditions of the times.

Bagley calls the massacre one of those "great crimes of power, [that] the criminals expected to get away with..." But this choice of words only reveals his personal perspective, his animosity toward Brigham Young.

It is a distoration, to assume that Young, et al looked upon their position as criminal, and something they needed to "get away with." Bagley makes clear enough the fact that Mormons from Young on down believed the "winding up scene" was coming: that they were fighting to preserve and build up the kingdom of God; that the United States was doomed. Therefore "getting away with" the massacre is hardly any sort of thought that would have entered Brigham Young's mind at all.

It was only after the fact, and after the end of the Civil War, that Young slowly realized just how mistaken his hope in a sudden Millennium was: the perpetrators of the MMM were being sought by the Federal courts. Only at the end, did Brigham Young sacrifice John D. Lee, when it became obvious that the Nation would have justice for the atrocity. In the second trial (after a hung jury), new witnesses for the prosecution were found; they had been coached in what to say; and the new all-Mormon jury unanimously cast a guilty verdict. Any reader who doesn't see the hand of Brigham Young at work behind such a manipulation of the courts to condemn Lee is in the grip of severe cognitive dissonance indeed.
