In his preface McKnight thanks Harold Weisberg, the dean of assassination critics who passed on in 2002.   McKnight's volume presents many of the approaches to the evidence established in Weisberg's writings dating back to 1965.
McKnight essentially relies on Warren Commission evidence to devastate the claim---by the Warren Commission---that only LHO was involved in the JFK assassination.  In this sense his work is similar to Professor David R. Wrone, Howard Roffman and Sylvia Meagher.   All of these authors use mainly the official findings to disprove the official conclusions.   For the most part this small group of critics has been ignored by the mainstream media and defenders of the official fiction. 
They maintain that there were two conspiracies.  One killed Kennedy and the other failed to properly investigate the crime.
There are dozens of gems in this book which destroy the official findings.   Most of them are ignored by defenders of the official theory.
Here, I'll list just six:

1.  The results of the tests on LHO's cheek and hands are that he fired no rifle on November 22.   McKnight takes the reader through all of the available official documentation to support this fact.   Those who continue to support the Warren Commission findings must ignore alot of evidence to claim Oswald fired the Mannlicher Carcano.
2.  The time reconstructions of Oswald's movements along with the eyewitness evidence shows that LHO cannot have been the shooter and been where we know he was shortly after the assassination.  McKnight cites the witnesses who did not see---but should have seen LHO---coming down the stairwell if he was the shooter.   Oswald's alibi was first carefully laid out in full detail by Howard Roffman in his excellent Presumed Guilty volume of 1975.   This book is usually ignored by supporters of the lone gunman theory---as they must---for it shows, using only official evidence---that LHO cannot have been the 6th floor shooter and been in the second floor lunchroom with a Coke in his hand with a minute and several seconds after the last shot.  
3.  The Charles Bronson film shows the alleged assassin's lair during the shooting with no Oswald in it.
4.  The autopsy document shows that with a bullet entering JFK in the back at the level of the third thoracic vertebra it could not have exited upward through his throat (indeed, above his necktie) and then travelled downward into Gov. Connally, seated in front of the president.  
5.  The statements and testimonies of the Dallas doctors and those who performed the autopsy are consistent that the bullet which is alleged to have caused seven non fatal wounds in the President and the Governor could NOT have done this damage and remained essentially in pristine condition.  Further, FBI ballistics expert Robert Frazier stated there was no blood or tissue on the bullet---it was officially linked to no body.  And, McKnight definitely shows that the bullet cannot be linked by a chain of evidence to either Kennedy or Connally or the stretchers that held them.
6.  McKnight cites the testimony of Dr. Joseph Dolce who performed scientific experiments showing that the ammunition attributed to Oswald cannot have caused the seven non fatal wounds to Kennedy and Connally.   Dolce performed these experiments for the Warren Commission and they did not like his results so he was not called to testify before the Commission.
These results are always ignored by supporters.
McKnight is unable to shed light on one of the key remaining areas of doubt:  just who was it who impersonated Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City several weeks prior to the assassination?   Whoever did this was trying to implicate Cuba in the assassination of JFK.   They failed but LBJ and Hoover and Warren failed the nation, truth and justice by not properly investigating the crime.
For those of you familiar with the works of Harold Weisberg, many of the documented claims in this book will not be new.
The work is important in that it takes the passion for truth and the ground breaking (but largely ignored) research of Weisberg and frames it from the viewpoint of the trained historian (...
