I like books about the retro-suburbs.  Two years ago, I read "Man In The Gray Flannel Suit" which took place in suburban 1950s.  So I wanted to go back even further to see what life was like in the suburbs in the 1920s.

The main character, George Folansbee Babbitt is all about conformity and going along.  The town of Zenith is a beacon of prosperity and George and his groups are "Boosters"....which are a kind of excessively clubby lot, who endlessly promote their town and it's prosperity.

(SPOILERS)

I thought this novel was stilted and overdone, at times.  George's Republican-ism becomes too cliched.  And then, all of the sudden, George has an epiphany and becomes liberal.  That seemed a bit too contrived.  The writing lacks the depth for that kind of change.  Anyone changing their ideology, mid-way through a novel, needs to become very reflective, soul-searching, and insightful.  Yet the main character seems to just change on a whim.  The author, Sinclair Lewis, never really plumbs the depths of the town, Zenith, to show why things are the way they are, and how they got that way.  There's little history of the town given.

Was Zenith supposed to respresent every town in the USA at that time?  It seems so, but that doesn't ring true.  Zenith is not a mountain town.  It's not the country.  It's not New York.  Author Lewis really failed to show that Zenith, itself, represented the industrial revolution, with exact examples.

Zenith is just one town in the USA, and frankly, the reader wants to know what is going on in other towns, during the same time period.  This novel falls off as a cultural expose, as there are many cultural clues left out.  Speak-easys, flappers, Bolshevics (was that 1920s?)  etc.

About the only cultural clues to the 1920s, this novel gives, is Prohibition, as having cocktails at dinnerparties is so important to the characters.

The writing style is a series of vignettes, and simply scenes of Babbitt going about his daily drudgery.  We flash from one scene to the next, but that doesn't give enough depth, insightful commentary about Babbitt's soul.

In all fairness, we are dealing with a very superficial world, and these sorts of establishment personalities are not big on analysis, or soulful insight.  But the reader sure needs it.  I don't need everything spelled out for me, and I can see the kind of shallow world the characters in Babbit come from. Yet, I still would have liked a little historical perspective, and the origins of this kind of booster-ism, conservatism etc.

I just would have liked to have seen more contrast, and more worldwide cultural clues to put Babbitt and Zenith into better perspective.  A little bit more third party narration/commentary/analysis would have been helpful, instead of quickly flashing from one scene to the next without the time to reflect
