Firstly, this isn't a book that should be relied upon. It's not a reference book in the vein of a dictionary. It's more like something that should be read and considered, but never as a definitive source. How can I explain the best way to use this book and why I give it a 4?

If you're a writer of fiction, then you know that creating believable characters is essential to crafting a decent character-driven story. Knowing what motivates a character is something a writer must know in order to proceed that character along during the story, and not knowing could be tragic to the flow of the plot. In other words, poorly thought character motivations could interrupt a good story. However, having characters so typical and predictable, not matter how convincing, can also be damaging. The problem with this book is that it offers typical solutions to creating characters. That's why this book shouldn't be used as a primary source.

But, and this is huge, I love this book for creating secondary characters. You know, those characters brought in to advance the plot along. Giving life to such simple characters is hard, and a typical character-type is still better than having no type for characters that will fill possibly a page or two of written material. Quick bad guys, chance sexual encounters, neighborhood children, whatever you need, can be found within these pages and I think it helps to add a little extra depth to stories.

Though the gold in this book could be found in one section--"Adult Styles," which explains the character types of males and females and common traits they have--there is still a lot of other useful information dealing mostly with psychological problems and developments. These sections--"Psychological Disorders," "Criminal Styles," "Sexual Styles--are great for creating motivation for characters, whether they be main protagonists or bit-characters. Another good section, though, is the "Nonverbal and Verbal Communication," which helps a writer to show rather than tell what type of person your character is by showing body actions or facial expressions, as well as other human mannerisms and idiosyncrasies that could reveal a character type.

Though, as I said, this isn't an essential writing reference, it still has loads of information that could help in breathing life into your characters. I'd definitely recommend creating your own main characters, but some of the suggestions or character types found here could help in crafting those believable people needed for your stories. If you want to add some depth to your stories, then this is a good, informative book for you
