Many critics have blasted Sidney's Sheldon's recent books as being sub-par, as we've come to expect so much from this great writer. Written in 1994, Nothing Lasts Forever takes the reader on a roller coaster ride that will leave you a little dizzy and completely fooled by the ending, which is one of the reasons most critics who have recently criticized Sheldon agree that this is one of his all-time best!

Three roommates, who just happen to be young, female doctors, are featured in Nothing Lasts Forever. The various aspects of their lives unfold before us - their hopes, dreams, fears, loves, ambitions, and their mistakes in life. We see what they endured as interns and see the daily rigors of life as a doctor in a large San Francisco hospital. The decisions made on the spur of the moment, only to be later dissected and examined by each of the doctors to verify in their own minds if they made the right decision. It's an interesting concept of young doctors not always being sure of their choices, but having to live with those conclusions. And what happens when faced with a dire situation - do you stick with your moral values and beliefs or do you euthanatize to prevent suffering? And if not you - who would? 

Not only are we given glimpses at the insights of these three, but also we're allowed to feel like you're part of their lives - a friend or neighbor perhaps. Sheldon builds a relationship not only between the three main characters, but involves the reader in the formula as well. You'll become emotionally engaged while reading about the doctors' everyday lives.

The decisions and moral beliefs are all brought out in a courtroom when one of the doctors is accused of killing her patient for monetary purposes. Sounds plausible, but did she commit the crime? And every aspect of each of the three women's lives are brought out and inspected to try and solve the murder. Many surprises await! 

Nothing Lasts Forever has been dubbed a "thriller of suspense" and rightly so. It will grab you from the beginning and not let go until you read the very last page. The plot is extremely well engineered and the writing is superb! Sidney Sheldon mixes humor, wit and intrigue with the perfect blend to entice even the most ardent critic.

There are so many twists and turns in this high-speed page-turner that I'd warn the reader to hold on tightly. You won't want to put it down, so it should come with a warning that you may miss sleep in order to finish Nothing Lasts Forever. I'd highly recommend it if you're ready for a wild reading journey!
