In this fine biography of Andrew Jackson, noted historian H.W. Brands presents Old Hickory in all his glory.  Having been born and raised in Nashville, just five miles from the Hermitage, I've developed a keen interest in all things Jackson, visiting his home countless times over the last 30 years (not by design, I now live near Pensacola, Florida, where Jackson's presence and impact looms almost as large).  

I probably would have been more impressed with this work had not I not previously read Remini's one volume life of Jackson.  The latter work offers a bit more detail even with fewer pages.  Like Remini, Brands is a great story teller, and presents his life of Jackson in the broader historical context of the times.  His is a balanced, though favorable, picture of one who's often been unfairly demonized by the academic left.  Brands carefully portrays the often angry, easily provoked Jackson as a mostly careful leader whose decisions (both military and political) were typically thoughful and well-reasoned, albeit often controversial.  

Brands does a good job of relating the major events which most students have come to identify with Jackson -- his early struggles along the western frontier; his personal skirmishes over issues of honor; Jackson the Indian fighter who became a military legend at New Orleans; Jackson the champion of democracy who as president led the successful (if not somewhat misguided) charge against Biddle and the Bank of the United States.

Brands also clearly demonstrates how Jackson tilted somewhat "Federalist" after he became president.  As he battled with Calhoun over issues pertaining to a state's right to "nullify" federal laws with which it disagreed, Jackson is seen as having moved significantly from a states-rights champion suspicious of federal power to a "preserve-the-union-at-all-costs" chief executive whose voice would find its greatest fulfillment with the rise of Abraham Lincoln. For Jackson, the success of democracy in the United States was clearly and irrevocably tied to the preservation of the union.  

Brands follows Remini's lead in giving a fair treatment to Jackson oft maligned Indian policies.  He points out that the removal policies set in motion during the Jackson Administration didn't actually take place (i.e. the "trail of tears") until the Van Buren administration.  To his credit, Brands is quick to criticize Jackson's silence of the injustices which occured, while carefully outlining the reasons Jackson considered removal the only viable option for the Indians' ultimate survival.

This is a great read which I finished in just over three weeks of casual reading (560 pages of text).  Give the ever-so-slight nod to Remini's single volume treatment of Jackson, but by all means read this 4 1/2 star book.  Highly recommended! 
