I was lead to believe that this book was more detailed but that's a misunderstanding on my part. At the very end of the book the author writes "the subject of this book is usually labeled 'critical thinking'.....If you are a high school or college student and want to learn more about the subject, look for courses with these titles being offered in your school." This is a good point showing the type of reader which whould benefit the most from this book. If you are a high school student or a college freshman, this book may be of interest to you. If you have taken some courses like mentioned above, or some philosophy courses or you are a maturer book reader, you will probably get little from this book. For instance, some of the sections (rules) are titled "seek impartial sources", "personal attack do not disqualify a source", "explore the arguments on all sides of the issue", etc. However, the author seems to have written the book for younger readers so the fact that it is too simplistic is not a negativity for the book, but just a point to take into consideration for the reader before deciding to buy it.

The book is short (87 pages) but concise. In a rule based format it shows how to approach an argument, how to reach a conclusion based on evidence instead of preconceieved notions or prejudices, and how to explain your conclusion clearly. In the introduction, the author writes "Arguments are attempts to support certain views with reasons.....Argument in this sense is a means of inquiry". The first 30 rules of the book is about this inquiry. These rules are numbered 1 thru 30. Also in the introduction the author writes "Once we have arrived at a conclusion that is well supported by reasons, argument is how we explain and defend it. A good argument doesn't merely repeat conclusions. Instead it offers reasons and evidence so that other people can make up their minds for themselves". The second half of the book is about this definition of arguments. In 17 rules (numbered A1 thru D3) it shows how to plan and write an essay to explain your view on a subject. Another section called "fallacies", defines fallacies as misleading arguments and gives examples of some classical fallacies and shows why they are illogical or why they violate the rules of good arguments.

Potential buyers can click the "check inside" link at the top of this page and see the complete list of rules to get a better idea about the book. (When I wrote this review, "check inside" was available)

Overall, it is a concise, well-explained and beneficial book for the target readers
