Ivan Klima has written novels, short stories, and essays.  I have read much of Klima and discovered them in that order. I wish I had discovered his essays, particularly those found in the Spirit of Prague, first.  This is not because Klima's novels and short stories are not consistently excellent.  They are.  However, these essays are so well written and so laden with Klima's own views on his life and thought processes that reading them can only enrich the enjoyment one gets from his fiction.  To the extent that a writer's life must inform his writing, our window into that writer's life informs our understanding of his work. 
The Spirit of Prague consists of a series of essays or speeches written by Klima over the years.  Many of these essays were written in samizdat form during the years in which Klima's work was not published by the Czech communist regimes.  It also includes the transcript of an interview between Klima and the author Phillip Roth that was originally published in the New York Review of Books in 1990.  
The first essay, A Rather Unconventional Childhood details Klima's childhood years in a Nazi concentration camp.  As one might expect such a childhood left an indelible mark on Klima's  world view.  One lesson learned was a simple one, "that few things are harder to restore than lost honour". In describing his life under the Nazis and then the Czech communist regime Klima avers that and society founded on dishonesty "while depriving another group, no matter how small, of its honour and even its right to life, condemns itself to moral degeneration and, ultimately, to complete collapse."  This world view colors Klima's fiction and is evident in his novels, such as Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light and in his short stories (My Golden Trades and My Merry Mornings). It also colored his response to living under the old regime and the honourable choices he made to return to Prague from London after the tanks rolled in 1968 and on his refusal to make compromises with the regime that would have allowed him to publish his work.
In his essay, Literature and Memory, Klima addresses the oft-asked question, why does someone write? Drawing on Kundera's Book of Laughter and Forgetting, Klima asserts that if "we lose our memory, we lose ourselves."   For Klima, a truly literary work is, in essence, a protest against the forgetting that looms over him.
The Phillip Roth interview of Klima was marred to a degree by Roth's perceived need to establish his own bona fides as a member of the intelligentsia at the expense of drawing more out of Klima.  Nevertheless, it had a fascinatingly exchange in which Klima provides a glimpse into the forces that propelled the writer and dissident V. Havel into the Presidency of the Czech Republic.
The Powerful and the Powerless, written in 1980, is an extraordinary piece that pretty much summarizes what Klima's life bears stark witness to; the struggle between the powerful and the powerless.  It is at once moving and pessimistic as Klima asserts that "humanity will not be redeemed by power wielded by the formerly powerless, for their innocence will be lost the day they become powerful."  The goal of the powerful is to use their strength to put any potential rebels back in that special place where "emptiness [and]fear reigns."
The Spirit of Prague concludes with a brilliant, short essay on the life and work of Franz Kafka: The Swords are Approaching.  Anyone interested in Kafka and his life and work would be well advised to pick up this collection of essays. 
The above summary does not really do justice to the quality and spirit of Klima's writing.  Similarly, it does not do justice to the portrait gives us of his life and the life of his country.  The Spirit of Prague is a fascinating piece of work
