White Bikini Panties (WBP) is about meeting he right guy, going on first dates, finding out how much baggage he has and deciding if you want to deal with it. 

Trina is a senior writer at The Coddled Cook (think QVC meets Pampered Chef) that sells kitchen products. Trina's job is to inform consumers of new products and provide instructions on how to use. 

Trina is the middle child of 2 sisters.  Jessica (the older sister) is a beautiful & smart lawyer who is married to Ethan. 
Missy is the baby sister who's major in college is TBD & doesn't have a care in the world.  Trina has always felt like a "plain Jane" compared to her sisters. Never caring about her appearance & satisfied with wearing plain cotton bikini's. 

Rick is Trina's boyfriend for almost 2 years who is an IT expert.  Rick works long hours, so the time that they get to spend together watching E! True Hollywood Story and having wild sex is special. 

Jane is Trina's best friend who reads Tarot cards.  Over pasta & a bottle of wine, Jane tells Trina that big changes are coming her way. Being madly in love with Rick, Trina ponders the thought of taking their relationship to the next level.  

Events occur between Trina & Rick *cough* and another person, but I won't reveal what happens and they split up.  After two weeks, Trina decides that it's time to start dating again and the fastest way to get over Rick is to start with buying new underwear. 

As Trina becomes a serial dater, she discovers white bumps on her "timberline" (I love that term) and convinces her OB that she must be seen ASAP!!  You'll have to read for yourself what the "bumps" were. :-) That situation is guaranteed to make you LOL!

Trina's dating and getting on with her life by focusing on all the negative things that Rick used to do that drove her crazy.  She's almost over him when she comes face to face with him one night.  Why is it that just when you think you are almost over someone, you see them and that familiar flood coming crashing back?

WBP was fast, fun and provided lots of LOL moments that I think you will enjoy. 

I'm looking forward to reading more from Kelly James-Enger.  



