"We give more than them. They only give themselves. We give them." So said Rilla Blythe once, and pretty much sums up all the suffering that the womenfolk left behind at home to 'work and wait' for their men at the front undergo. 

RoI is featured around pretty young Rilla Blythe, as flippant and fun-loving as fourteen-year-olds can be. The novel starts out innocently enough; Rilla and her siblings attend a lighthouse dance, and handsome Ken Ford is infatuated with Rilla. Nobody cares about what's happening outside Prince Edward Island..or indeed, even in the next town. But in the midst of the enjoyment, World War I is looming up, and very soon boys are in khaki and on their way to the bloody battlefields in France. Inner strength is tried and hearts are wrung during the four long years that follow as the women watch friends, husbands, lovers and brothers put their lives on stake for the 'ashes of their fathers and the temples of their gods'.  

Sadly, Rilla of I. has been overlooked by many when considering all the wonderful war books written. Maybe because of the title, which sounds very chick-flickish. If it had been called 'All Quiet on the Canadian front', perhaps more notice would've been taken of it. RoI is a clear, realistically insightful, thought-provoking work on what the people on the homefront go through during a war. All the anxieties over a telegram, taking up jobs that only men handled before, saying goodbye to the men leaving...

LMM has beautifully portrayed how the initial excitement and complacency over the war simmed down to stoic endurance through the four years. Yet, in the midst of all this emotion, there is still the trademark LMM humour. Rilla reflecting that Fred Arnold's nose would be unbearable 'across the breakfast table'. Mr. Pryor being nicknamed 'Whiskers on a Moon' because of his fat face. Rilla bringing home an orphaned war baby in a soup tureen. There is never a dull moment in RoI. 

The only nitpick I have with this novel is that there is so little of the Merediths and characters like Jem, Nan and Di Blythe whom I grew to love during 'Rainbow Valley'. But it is such a powerful, moving book that it merits every bit of the five-star rating. This is L.M. Montgomery at her best
