This is a book that one should read even when you are just starting out with breastfeeding, since it does provide some feedback from other mothers about some of the frustrations experienced at certain stages. I am one of those mothers who have been wanting to wean almost from day one because my little boy turned out to be a grazer - even now at eleven months feeding 2 - 2.5 - hourly. However, HE didn't agree with the concept and absolutely refused to take a bottle. 

Over the past few months I have occasionally tried weaning him to formula but he must have sensed my ambivalence about it, because I couldn't bear to let him cry and thus forcing him to take a bottle. Which is, by the way, one of the methods promoted by some paediatricians and doctors, people who I am sure have never been faced with a screaming unhappy baby who only wants what's best.

In any event, I have been worrying about how I'm going to accomplish weaning when he turns 1 and information has been difficult to obtain. Most mothers who nurse older babies seem to assume that they will wait for the child to lead when he/she is ready and they also seem very comfortable with the notion. I have never felt comfortable about child-led weaning so I always felt somehow inadequate for feeling that way.

Thankfully I managed to track down this publication and it has been a worthwhile read in that I now am more relaxed about not trying to wean him when he is not ready to do so. The La Leche League is also a worthwhile organisation to contact regarding all nursing issues and the people I have encountered are very supportive about your feelings and needs as a mother. 

This book extensively covers amongst others, issues such as: the attitudes you will encounter when nursing a toddler and how to prepare for that; feelings and emotions you will experience; training your child to nurse when it suits you. It also gives "child- and mother friendly" suggestions for weaning, reasons why you would want to wean and anecdotes by mothers about their weaning experiences. It has useful information about weaning at different ages from newborn to later. 

All in all it has given me a lot of comfort and more information about extended nursing. However I would have liked to read more about earlier weaning, there seems to be a strong bias towards later weaning, which is understandable considering the La Leche League's position on extended nursing. I also feel that there was a lot of information for mothers who stay at home full-time and very little for mothers who have to work, even if only part-time. 

We are now leaving the weaning issue on the back-burner, at least until my son turns 1 at which time we'll re-address the issue. I am very glad though, that I am in a position to nurse my son for such a long period considering all the benefits of breast milk and as the author of the book points out, he's not going to nurse forever. 
