Finding the Dream is the final book in the Dream trilogy.  It tells the story of Laura Templeton, who lives a life of luxury being the daughter of the owners of the Templeton hotel chain, and Michael Fury, the man from the "wrong side of the tracks."

Laura grows up following the rules.  As kids, Margo grows up stating she will never tie herself down to one man, and Kate grows up stating she doesn't have time for any man.  But Laura dreams of meeting Mr. Right, settling down, and taking care of her own family.

When Laura is 18, she thinks she's found the perfect man in Peter Ridgeway.  He's older than she is, but it doesn't matter to her.    She marries him thinking her life couldn't get any better.  Fast forward 10 years, she has two daughters, Ali and Kayla, and Peter is in charge of Templeton Monterey.  Her marriage is in trouble, but she believes everything can be worked out.  One night, she catches him with his secretary and realizes that he's been cheating on her for a long time and that her marriage is over.

Laura begins divorce proceedings and decides to help Margo buy the building she needs to start Pretenses.  When she goes to the bank to get the money needed, she finds out that Peter has taken everything from her, including the money in their daughter's college funds.  She realizes that she needs to learn to take care of herself and her daughters, so rather than depend on the Templeton fortune, she takes on two jobs, one at Templeton Monterey and one at Pretenses.

Michael Fury is an old friend of Laura's brother Josh who has recently returned to town and is starting a business raising and selling horses.  His home and stables are destroyed in a mud slide so Josh asks Laura if she would rent him the Templeton stables until he can build a new place.  Michael has a very interesting past that includes having been a merchant marine and a mercenary.  He looks at Laura as the proper, well-bred daughter of the Templetons that spends her days at the spa and having luncheons.  He slowly learns about her marriage, how it fell apart and how she isn't the pampered little rich girl he assumed.  With Michael, Laura learns to be more carefree and not worry so much about what is proper and what is expected of her.

Michael believes Laura could never be interested in him because of his upbringing.  He spends a lot of time with her daughters teaching them how to care for and ride a horse.  They, naturally, love him because he shows an interest in them that they never received from their father.

Ali, her oldest daughter, has blamed her for the divorce.  She believes her father would have stayed if her mother hadn't told him to leave.  One day, she is rude to her mother in front of Michael and he disciplines her and refuses to let her ride the horses until she apologizes.  Ali finds her mother at the cliffs and apologizes.  While talking, Ali puts the pieces of what Laura doesn't say together and realizes what her father did to them and what her mother has been doing to keep things together.  It gives her a new respect for Laura.

One day, Peter comes to Pretenses to inform her that he wants his daughters to attend his upcoming wedding.  When asked why he wants them there since he never spends time with them, he admits that it wouldn't look right if they didn't attend and people would talk.  He admits to not being father material and that he never loved Laura, he only loved the fact that she was a Templeton.  

Things keep moving along with Laura and Michael, with both realizing that they love each other, but afraid to say it.  Michael still doesn't believe that Laura would ever think of a having a future with him, so he breaks things off.  Extremely angry, Laura throws a few things at him and runs off to the cliffs.  While there, there's an earthquake and she falls down the cliffs.  Michael realizes where she went and goes to find her.  He sees her not moving and rushes down the cliffs to get to her. She's hurt, but not seriously, and he goes to get help.  While waiting for him to come back, she sees an entrance to a cave that was uncovered when the rocks shifted from the earthquake.  Inside the cave is the box with Seraphina's treasure in it that the girls have been looking for since they were kids.  Michael comes back, gets her up the cliffs on her own and goes back down for the treasure.

That's when he realizes that she could have died and what she means to him.  They both finally admit that they want a future together.  Laura, Margo and Kate decide to put Seraphina's treasure in a special display case in Pretenses, not to sell, but to represent the importance of dreams.

It was enjoyable following the stories of these three terrific women and the men they decide to share their life with.  I'm just sorry it had to end
