There is probably one statement which both fans and foes of America can agree on; America is one of the most unique countries in this world.  One way in which America is unique is that it is of the few countries in the world in which the theory of evolution is not widely accepted outside of the scientific community.  This even though America has one of the longest histories of grappling with this scientific issue.  This book provides a great introduction to this controversy within America, and focuses on the keystone event that brought evolution to the forefront of American politics; the Scopes Trial, that first great public trial of 20th century America.

During the early 1900's, religious revivalism throughout the US led to the passing of numerous state and local laws banning the teaching of evolution in publicly funded schools.  This in turn led to a backlash whereby scientists and others contested these laws in various forms throughout the US.  One place where this contest boiled over was in Dayton, Tennessee.  John Scopes, a local biology teacher, decided on principle to teach evolution and as a result, was disciplined by the local authorities.  To his defense came Clarence Darrow.  Leading the prosecution, and the anti-evolution forces, was William Jennings Bryant, one of the greatest orators of American history.  The resulting trial, known as the Monkey Trial, would go down in history as a great victory for evolution against the those who believed in creationism.   

This book describe the events leading up to the trial, the trial itself, and the consequences of the trial.  The book also goes into great detail to show how the trial affect those who took part in it.  Even though the trial itself settled few issues decidedly, it did mark the beginning of the end of both Darrow and Bryant.  Both men, and the judge overseeing the trial, saw their careers dim afterwards.  John Scopes himself underwent so much pressure up to and during the trial, that the ensuing victory in public opinion of their side rang hollow.  

Overall, this is a good book to read.  It gives great insight into the public consciousness of the 1920s, the role of government, science and religion in it, and introduced America to the riveting courtroom case
