This slim book does a solid job of showing "that Japan's democracy does not work very well and has not worked as designed since the end of World War 11." The author clearly details how "personalism, graft, cronyism, favoritism, bribery, money politics, factionalism, and collusion" are all rife within the Liberal Democratic Party which has ruled Japan almost without interruption since the War.
He outlines how pork politics have been the deciding factor in Japan, and why Japanese politicians and the factions they belong to must build relationships with cash rich businesses if they wish to exert significant influence in a corrupt society where political favors are regularly bought and sold. 
He continually points out how Japanese culture implicitly condones corruption: Politicians like former Primer Minister Nakasone Yasuhiro were, despite their convictions for serious fraud, regularly returned to parliament with huge majorities. Bowen details how kingmakers like Nakasone who specialized in secret, backroom deals made Japan the dysfunctional democracy that it is. 
He shows us that "power, the ability to deliver pork - not ethical behavior - is what Japanese voters reward." Because the ability to bring home the bacon is imperative, the Japanese Communist Party, which has never been able to get close to the trough, is essentially powerless and irrelevant in Japan. For much the same reason, the author believes that Koizumi Junichiro, the current prime minister, will be dumped by the LDP kingmakers when the time is right. The prime minister is, Bowen alleges, a more figurehead, a puppet controlled by the kingmakers who stay out of public view and, therefore, out of public scrutiny.
The book also explains such things as why the election of prime minister is usually rigged, how the Japanese constitution is largely irrelevant to Japanese politics, how and why Japan's bureaucrats are so important and why the pre war inheritance of authoritarianism, fascism and imperialism remain vital keys to understanding the modern Japanese political system.
Despite his clear elucidation of all these points, the author also reminds us on pages 99/100 that the Japanese economy is "the world's second largest, the Japanese people live longer, healthier lives than Americans, its people are one of the world's most literate and well-read, its social welfare structure is one of the world's most advanced, its economic system is one of the world's freest." 
Japan, in other words, is, on balance, an economic, social and political success. Although modern Japan is not a model of Athenian democracy, yet it must be noted that neither is the United States or any other major world power. The Japanese people elect, by and large, members of the Liberal Democratic Party to parliament and they, working in tandem with the country's bureaucrats, give them what they want: a more hi tech version of the bread and circuses formula so beloved by Roman emperors, who were not the world's greatest exponents of the democratic ideal either.
In building his thesis that Japanese democracy is dysfunctional, he quotes far too many polls. But, as any politician could tell him, the only poll that really counts is the one that happens via the ballot box on election day. And despite the very valid and important points made in this valuable book, the LDP will probably have little to fear from that poll for many years to come. Therefore, although Bowen's book is a good exposition of the problems inherent in Japanese democracy, because there is little new or novel in it, the LDP's kingmakers will not lose any sleep over it
