When you wait so long to take a look at a new author's work that they are no longer a new author you are getting what you deserve when you can't figure out where to begin.  After a bit of puzzling, I grabbed Dime Store Magic and it's sequel, Industrial Magic, not quite sure what to expect.  I was hardly prepared for a story about the head of the American Coven of Witches and her custody battle for the thirteen-year-old daughter of a good friend.  I have to admit that, in the first 50 or so pages I thought "Oh no!  I'm not going to like this" about a dozen times.  But perseverance paid off and Kelley Armstrong's story got better and better.  By the end I understood her popularity.

Paige Winterbourne came to her position young, and she is barely tolerated by the elders of her coven, her young ward Savannah is a constant trial, and one of the sorcerous cabals that dominate both the magical and criminal worlds want do get control of Savannah before she comes of age.  The better to dominate her will.  Paige finds herself in confrontation with Leah, the half-demon telekinetic who, among other things, killed her mother.  Leah pulls no punches and Paige quickly finds herself in a legal mess, suspected of being a Satanist, and a murderer.  Not a good position for a foster parent, to say the least.

In the middle of this Lucas Cortez, a handsome young lawyer comes to her rescue, or would have come to her rescue if he hadn't also been a sorcerer (all the best attorneys are sorcerers these days).  Her distrust only increases when she discovers that he is also the son of the CEO of an important cabal.  Well, he's really the 'rebel' son, but trust comes hard - to a witch any sorcerer is bad news.  Of course, this kind of story would go nowhere is there wasn't a difficult love relationship and soon Lucas and Paige are on the run with Savannah trying to stay one step ahead of the coven elders, a cabal of criminal sorcerers, and the police.

While not strictly a comedy, Kelley Armstrong keeps the story flowing with a light touch.  Paige (and Savannah for that matter) has a knack for disaster and spells that turn out unexpectedly.  The effect is often comical even when the dead show up for their own funerals and lawyers start getting thrown through windows.  After a slow start the pace picks up until it goes full tilt.  I found myself rushing at the end so that I could go on to the next volume.  So while the plot wasn't what I expected (no vampires) it turned out to be well worth reading
