
I'm a newly devoted Jeffrey Deaver fan and absolutely love the Lincoln Rhyme stories.  I've read a couple of non-Lincoln tales, and they were ok, but not on the level as the Lincoln sagas.  So I went into The Devil's Teardrop a bit apprehensive.  I was pleasantly surprised to find that I really enjoyed every page of this book!

The Devil's Teardrop is set on New Year's Eve in Washington D.C.  The story begins when a killer, known as the Digger, walks into the Metro Center subway terminal and shoots hundreds of rounds from an Uzi, killing many and wounding even more.  He is then able to leave unnoticed because of the panic among the survivors - because no one sees the Digger.  A ransom note is delivered to the Mayor that states the Digger will continue on his rampage, killing people every four hours, until $ 20 million is placed at the specified location.  Oh and did I mention that the Digger is not the mastermind behind this terror event, only a robotic type human who does whatever he's told?  If the mastermind behind this escapade is captured, the Digger will continue to kill mass quantities of people.  Talk about a built-in escape route!

It is up to Parker Kincaid, a sexy, macho document analyst who must be talked out of his early retirement to help solve this case.  He must search the strange ransom note to find any clues to help solve the identity of both the Digger and the mastermind.

Enter Special Agent In Charge Margaret Lukas who lives in self-imposed exile from emotions due to a horrible secret buried in her recent past.  She and Kincaid strive to stop the killing and put an end to the reign of terror that has fallen on Washington D.C.  Of course, chemistry is also a factor between them and it's amusing to see both of them hop scotching away from any involvement with the other.

Typical to Deaver's style, this story is fast paced; full of surprises along the journey and it's wonderfully entertaining.  Several times the good guys are only a few minutes away from catching the Digger, only to result in a near miss.  The reader can feel the frustration of the agents!

The thing that gives away the identity of Deaver's villain, is that when everyone thinks they know the answer and it's right there in front of you, there are between 50 and 75 pages left to read.  Why would an author need that many pages to wrap up the loose ends?  Yep, that's a definite clue that the identity of the killer is WRONG!  So then Deaver makes your mind begin to toil with figuring out all the key players in this plot.  And he's a master at making the reader guess and guess and guess.

The end is a great shoot-um-up style that is like any good action movie - lots of gunfire, explosions, and fighting.  You won't be disappointed.  And the character development in The Devil's Teardrop is fantastic.  One of Jeffrey Deaver's strong attributes is the ability to get the reader to draw a mental picture of all of the characters, because with his books, you never know who the bad guy really is until the very last page!

As always, it's entertaining, funny at times, and a roller coaster ride until the very end.  Just when you are trying to catch your breath, you'll start laughing.  An example is when Kincaid calls Lincoln Rhyme for advice on forensic evidence (dust found on the envelope and where that dust is located in the city).  Lincoln is his ornery self, yelling at Amelia for a glass of scotch while trying to help Parker Kincaid.  And the ex-wife scenario leaves you shaking your head wondering at how some people have children - seems Parker Kincaid's ex-wife is so self absorbed that she doesn't even bring Christmas gifts to her own children, but comes by to tell Parker that she's filing for full custody.  Things in life that make you go hmmm...  The side journeys are well worth the read, and an added bonus to this great main story!
