I've been going to 12-Step programs, including AA, since 1986.  My life has undoubtedly been saved.  In my case this is partly because I was open-minded enough to see that what I needed was a combination of the foundation of AA, without which I couldn't stay sober, & other support groups & resources.  I originally experienced AA & other 12-Step programs in New York City, where the 12-Step population mirrored the variety of spiritual beliefs and lifestyle choices of that city's population. But I am alarmed to see how fundamentalist Christianity has been coming to dominate AA, particularly in more provincial areas.  While AA stemmed from the very Christian Oxford Group, AA's original members/Big Book writers attempted to open the program to all.  Approximately 65 years later, as this book says, some people don't come to AA by choice (the original path). There they may feel they can't fit in without converting to Christianity & being a Republican.  I'm one of those who has stayed in AA but who winces when meetings end with the (clearly Christian, exclusionary) Lord's Prayer & when I hear fear-based (the "disease" itself), negative statements supposedly based on a very primitive concept of Christianity.  At one point I attended because the program helped my sobriety, spirituality and life - but struggled to piece together a patchwork recovery of which AA was but one, albeit essential, part.  And I stayed in case other liberals, or people for whom Christianity isn't the only choice, will feel more welcome.  I just finished logging several years in a more rural area where I believe I may have contributed to a more open-minded, tolerant stance at meetings. Now I'm back in a city and relieved to see that things have gotten more progressive than they were here before, as well (ironically, also more like what I think of as "the good old AA"!). While one may still have to hunt for meetings where this is so, I am seeing far more tolerance re: lifestyle, religion, politics, etc. - a focus on the essential tenets of the program.  So I didn't "Quit before the miracle," at least this one.  As for folks being coerced into AA as the only alternative to jail, I think this is completely wrong.  More options should be offered. While AA doesn't seem to want to allow this information, I know people have managed to find sobriety and keep sobriety without AA - it is not the only path.  However, I do resonate with Carl Jung (who helped formulate the program with Bill Wilson), who came to the conclusion that alcoholics (&, by extension, other addictive personalities) couldn't stay sober without replacing booze, drugs, etc., with some sort of spiritual connection
