I bought a UK paperback of the Lord of the Silver Bow at the airport in Munich prior to an 11 hour direct flight back to the US, and almost finished it by the end of the trip. Although I dislike fantasy fiction in general, having spent the summer in Turkey (which is where ancient Troy, Miletos, Hattusas, and so on were all located) and being familiar with classical myths/epics convinced me to take a chance on the book. This was my first exposure to anything David Gemmell has written.

Gemmell's character development sustained my interest even though I don't find multiple battle and shipwreck scenes inherently interesting. When you care about characters, you want to know how they'll react to and whether they'll get through situations.  What was remarkable is that major and minor characters were all interesting in their own right--from Xander (a young man trying to become a man), to Antiphones (Priam's ridiculed son), to Andromache (betrothed to Hektor, but independent in spirit), to Argurios (the wronged warrior), to Laodike (Priam's shy daughter), to Helikaon (the troubled Prince of Dardania), etc.  Like Homer, Gemmell doesn't shy away from presenting a large cast of characters and succeeds in making them 3-dimensional.  He demonstrates deep understanding of human psychology, personal traumas/dilemmas. 

And suprisingly, as I've learned through investigating Gemmell's prior books, his body of work seemed more directed towards a male audience. However, he gave equal footing to his female characters in Lord of the Silver Bow and crafted them with sensitivity.  I've looked at the reviews for the book on both the US and UK Amazon sites and noted that some readers slammed the Andromache character for being boring and bi-sexual. My response is this:  Priestesses and male and female bisexuality are historically correct elements. The warrior goddess Athena, Artemis the Huntress, and independent heroines challenging men (e.g. Atalanta) are part of the classical literature.  And as for Andromache, her struggle with having an independent mind, yet being a pawn in a male-dominated world, was interesting--no doubt many of the queens of olden times (as well as many modern women) dealt with this still relevant issue.  Gemmell understands this without being a man-hater.        

My condolences to the Gemmell family and his long-term fans for David Gemmell's passing. Note that for those who want to read the entire Troy trilogy, the second book is out already in the UK and Wikipedia reports David's wife will try to finish the third book using his chapter notes.
