I'm sure that with technology, there are no secrets.  I give it four stars instead of three stars because people who take issue with his contradictions will want to read this.  Break out the highlighter pens.  I laughed when he acknowledges for the first time (and then frequently throughout the book) that Chinese women are fodder because I've heard the lengthy and boring explanations by those who refuse to admit that about themselves.  Use a different color to highlight the many times he feels that Chinese have developed an "obsession for money" and that Chinese women use him to get magazines, currency exchange and see him as marriage material while they cannot afford his expat coffee or sundae.  (The kinds of things he was asked for, many people would have no problem giving without the burden of the economic and racial differences between the giver and the receiver.  Obtaining magazines are a big deal FOR EXPATS in China. There have been some socially retarded incidents of too much asking but I think the Chinese are better at showing when that's been inappropriate of Chinese so I think he could have been clearer about that.)

Then use a third color highlighter for the many times that he is reliant on the generosity not just material but the generosity of Chinese attention that helps him acclimate and get his job done.  People and perhaps especially Chinese fail to draw the comparison that the percentage of Chinese immigrants who enjoy that thorough a level of generosity overseas is much less than the percentage of nonChinese who are helped by Chinese in China. I bear him no rancor though I can't imagine he would appreciate this review.  I haven't laughed so much READING in a while.  The pungent motives and unspoken assessments are not a shock and I think he's very clever and remembers that many Chinese know this so he presents them for consumption.  It's his admissions that save him just as when Kip Fulbeck's narrator admitted that he wouldn't want his daughter dating someone like him.  LOL.  I wonder if M. Faison (French Huguenot! LOL) has ever been frustrated that Chinese don't realize how clever he is.  This book is not about "dating."  It's about world politics and its instruments.  And his cleverness is not in his confessions of eliciting confidences but in the entire book.  

A good companion to this book is Thailand Fever written from both Western and Thai perspectives (as interpreted by a Westerner apparently) with tips on how to successfully navigate the cultural misunderstandings to forge successful romantic relationships.  The tone of Thailand Fever is different because the goal for the Westerner is different.  I don't think that the authors of either books speak for all Westerners although Thailand Fever tends to generalize.  Some expats may welcome South of the Clouds and refer to it to reinforce their criticisms; however, this book fails to explain that Asians and notably the Chinese are very good at ignoring other people and becoming invisible when they are not being appreciated or well-regarded sincerely so there is something to be said when they help you.

I'm fed up with the lack of Asian male faces in American media while Asian women are left exposed and devalued so that this kind of reporting is part of the mainstream depiction instead of just a blip.  I'm calling quits on going to the movies and closely considering every American media purchase I make (including magazines) from now on.  I've had it
