There is a world view that the political left has that insists that reality is a fiction and that fiction can be a reality. In MUZZLED, radio talk show host Michael Smerconish takes to task the entire spectrum of thought that demands that we see the world through the lens of those who try to please everyone but winds up pleasing no one. Political Correctness (PC) is a recent invention of the left. When I first heard of it in the late 1980's, I thought that it might be a good thing. After all, how could I argue against those who seemed to be trumpeting the rights of the handicapped, the disaffected, the disenfranchised, and minorities in general? Well, as it turned out, I found out that the list of potential entrants into the pool of the handicapped et al quickly grew in number until the only ones not included were the ones not likely to donate to the party that promised an ever increasing piece of the economic and social pie. 

In the world of the politically correct, Smerconish notes that one can lash out in any direction without fear of facing consequences. In MUZZLED, he provides numerous examples of PC recipients who have taken Star Trek's Mr. Spock's admonition and turned it on its head: "The needs of the few must always outweigh the needs of the many." One example: Teaching supervisors warn teachers not to use red to mark the papers of students who have made grammatical errors. The rationale is that red has punitive overtones and can lead to a student's loss of self-esteem. Purple has now become the new red. Smerconish notes that when purple then develops the same insidious overtones that now allegedly afflict red, then purple will have to be replaced in turn by a less offensive color. He further notes that current educational pedagogy now elevates student self-esteem over student mastery of what used to be called the three R's. 

Smerconish's other chapters do not merely deal with issues that are annoying such as the purple-red controversy, but many touch on issues that relate directly to the very survival of this country. The politically correct left insists that at airports, Swedish grandmothers are to be considered at the same level of danger as young Moslem males. The recent arrest of some two dozen terrorists at England's Heathrow Airport was made possible only by using the very techniques that PC demands be dropped. 

What becomes clear from reading MUZZLED and listening to the apologists of PC in the New York Times is that political correctness is merely one facet of a multi-pronged effort to transform the United States into a socialist vision that belongs only to the scattered few who nevertheless wield a power far out of proportion to their numbers: the media, academia, and the Hollywood elite. Smerconish closes by noting that it is now no longer politically correct to call terrorists terrorists. Now when we see planes blown out of the sky, the media may have to refer to the perpetrators as "co-ordinators of aerial strikes.
