It's not too often that i'm actually frightened when reading a story, but the novel Constantine has managed to do just that.

Constantine follows the plot of the movie.  John Constantine is dying of lung cancer.  He knows that when he dies, he's going to Hell for commiting suicicide earlier in his life.  While trying to save himself, he discovers that strange things are going on.  Demons are trying to cross over onto Earth, a mysterious and incredibly powerful artifcat is found, and an event is being planned that if pulled off, will mean the end of humanity.

As with most movie to book tie ins, Constantine allows us to get into the heads of the charachters and find out what makes them tick.  There are lots of moments that really define the charachters (A paticularly clever one is when Balthazar realizes that he's starting to prefer earth to Hell, quite a funny moment).  I was also fascinated with the passages of Henessy (we finally found out what drove him mad, which wasen't covered very well in the movie), and the always interesting bits with the angel Gabriel.  There's also a horrific moment where a young Constantine commits suicide, dies, and plunges into Hell.  That gave me goosebumps.  My favorite moment?  When we find out who exactly is giving "The finger" at the climax of the story.

What really makes this book interesting is the authors descriptions of Hell.  He let his imagination certianlly run wild when coming up with frightening images for us to ponder over (such as people being used as mortar for bricks, and souls constantly being eaten and digested by demons over and over for all eternity).  These passages are horribly realistic, and are the stuff of nightmares (though I was pleased to see the Spanish inquisitors in there).  On the upside, we get to see more of Heaven as well (which was glimpsed for only a moment in the movie), and the descriptions are beautifully written.

The only real problem I have with the book is how the stories message (You only need faith to be saved), is not conveyed very well.  After analyzing the story, I can't really see how faith is worked into Constantines story.  Even at the climax of the book, Constantine acts withought faith.  Also, some ideas contradict each other.  One constant message throughout the book is that God has a plan for everyone.  So does that mean that God plans for certian people to be damned to Hell? (In my own views, where God loves everyone completelyand saves everyone, that is simply not possible).

As some other viewers have noted, and Gabriel herself says, you cannot be saved by acts alone.  Yet, one of the major charachters is saved by an act, and not one of faith, which dosent make sense and contradicts what Gabriel says early in the novel.  

In other words, the novels message could have been worked and tweaked until it came out better.  

The only other thing I would have changed is the apperance of the devil.  In the movie, he appears as a gruff looking guy wearing a white suit.  In the book, he appears in traditional form with the wings, hooves, etc.  I personally prefer the movie Devil, but that's just me.

In the end, I highly recommend this book.  It's well written and definitly worth a read.    
