This Bible blew me away when I went hunting for one a few months ago to give to a youth who had come into my life.  I was so impressed, I  bought one for myself.  This Bible is many things, but the first thing that I noticed, quite honestly, is that the colors were bright, the print readable, and the illustrations far less serious and far more engaging than your typical Bible.  Without growing to an unwieldy size, the editors manage to throw in a wealth of study information, written in a modern, friendly style, that helps make even the dryest or most confusing parts of the Good Book both understandable and relevant to today's society.  That is what makes it perfect for someone, like my young friend, who is unfamiliar with religion, Christianity, or just plain old Bible study.  It's less intimidating that most Bibles and all material is presented in such a manner that you don't feel "unprepared" if you pick it up cold.  Catholics are often les familiar with the Bible than many Protestant denominations, as we have a wholistic focus that is both valuable and worthwhile--however, a better relationship and understanding of the Word can only enhance one's spiritual life and experience as a Catholic.  If that applies to you (which, I have to admit, it did to me) this is a wonderful way to get your feet wet in Biblical translation, discussion, interpretation, and modern relevance.  Who won't like this Bible?  1 - Those more familiar and attached to more formal translations such as the King James Version 2 - Those already familiar with intensive Bible study, IF not working with youth or those less familiar 3 - most Protestants...the discussion is from a very clear Catholic viewpoint...not really controversial, just Catholic 4 - and traditionalists who are offended by the idea of making the Bible "accessible" and "relevant" through use of the lingo/parlance and point of view of today's under-25 set.  I believe one reviewer felt that the Bible didn't need to be made culturally relevant, finding the sidebars on race, cultural differences, modern morality, and varying interpretations to be just another extension of the "Political Correctness" movement. I couldn't disagree more.  The Bible should be the one book that everyone can "see themselves" in should they seek such a thing.  This Bible does that for a new generation of Catholics and for a new, hesitant group of explorers.  I'd ballpark the appropriate age for this version at around 13-35 years
