With all the scandals about the financial and banking industries that have widely reported in the press in the last decade it is perhaps no surprise to hear that the CEOs and chairpersons affiliated with these industries have been held in low repute. But even before these scandals, it is probably fair to say, and an objective statistical study might verify this, that business people at high levels in management have been viewed extremely negatively. Without knowing these types of individuals personally, due to their general inaccessibility, it is difficult to make a judgment whether these viewpoints are accurate. Are CEOs and their immediate reports as ruthless and unkind as the press reports them to be? Do they indeed have a paucity of intellect but an overabundance of meanness? It is highly unlikely that all fit this category. 

The other side of this coin is that these individuals are admired in a way that makes them out to be essentially god-like figures or financial geniuses to some fantastic degree. They are able to control events and manipulate people with great skill and have intestinal fortitude that goes way beyond that ability of the average person. They are thus extreme statistical outliers of intellect, shrewdness, and entrepreneurial alertness, and deserve therefore every penny of compensation allotted to them. 

These two viewpoints are both extreme, and common sense might dictate a characterization that is somewhere in between these endpoints. One method for finding out the truth would be examine carefully the words and actions of these individuals. With only short time windows available to view them, this method becomes very difficult. But interestingly, in the last few years, CEOs and those close to them have decided to publish books about their lives and experiences. In their writings, some seem guarded and on the defensive, and this provokes the reader to extreme skepticism. Some are however very transparent, or at least seemingly so, and the reader at least feels some measure of comfort in believing their words are the result of honest intent. This book can be classified in the latter category, and with few exceptions is very interesting to read. Judah Kraushaar, the second author of the book, speaks of the importance of maintaining a healthy skepticism when writing about someone that you admire. And the reader can be comforted to know that it is not written in a spirit of uncritical adulation, even though Kraushaar refers to Sandy Weill as being the "single most important figure" in finance in the last fifty years. 

There are many discussions in the book that give insight into the workings of large companies and the schism between management and the (ordinary) employees. For example, in reference to his relationship with Jamie Dimon, Weill is reported as being irritated that he was kept "out of the loop" about important information that he felt crucial to his decision-making. In this regard perhaps Weill (and his immediate reports) should show some empathy to the managers (and employees) who are always kept "out of the loop" when it comes to the decisions (made by senior managers) that will have serious ramifications for these managers and employees. The reader with a more scientific bent will be very puzzled by Weill's reference to enjoying a "fair share of luck" in his life. The superstition of belief in luck has, oddly enough, persisted in the twenty-first century. There is no place in life for this concept, except possibly as a rhetorical device that is used to express joy with one's immediate circumstances.  

Weill admonishes those who are resistant to change, and he is correct in doing so. But making changes can also threaten a firm's existence or efficiency, a good example being the changes that were forced on Citigroup by the regulators during and after the Enron scandal. Weill reports in the book that he did not resist these changes, but he should have, for they are morally reprehensible and conflict with the axiom of laissez faire that all business and industry should adhere to. The financial industry can do without the SEC and all other oversight institutions and regulatory agencies. They are an anachronism and have no place in the twenty-first century. 

Weill describes his management thinking as being "highly intuitive" and he points to the need for developing good intuition in all tiers of management. But he is perhaps giving intuition more credit than it deserves, for there are countless examples where intuition has failed when matched against judgments based on rigorous, quantitative analysis. These examples are increasing dramatically at the present time and it would be fair to say that the style of management based on "gut feelings" or informal decision-making is quickly becoming an anachronism. On the other hand, Weill points to his ability to work well with numbers, a skill he states he learned from his mother. But he does not elaborate on how he uses this skill in business unfortunately. Weill clearly is skeptical of the field of financial engineering, making negative commentary on it at various places in the book. But techniques from financial engineering are used very heavily in risk management and no doubt Citigroup's risk exposure has been controlled with these techniques during Weill's leadership of the company. And readers who are interested in risk analysis and risk management might be disappointed in the book since Weill does not elaborate in much detail about his attitudes about these subjects. He speaks of "risk controls", the impact of "excessive balance sheet leverage", the importance of dealing with reputation risk, and his willingness to take on operational risk, but leaves the curious reader wanting more information on these topics. Along these same lines, Weill makes some unproven statements in reference to the financial markets. For example, he speaks of information being "rapidly discounted" in the stock market, but does not really clarify what he means by this. Did he perhaps at some point in his business career rely on this belief to further the success of the firms that he acquired? How much did he follow the behavior of the equity markets, especially in the latter part of his career? Weill speaks of learning to "feel the market" from Tubby Burnham, of gaining a reputation as a "fanatical tape watcher", and as being an "ax in the stock" . This latter phrase is repeated throughout the book and Kraushaar refers to himself as being one in reference to his expertise on Citigroup. But does being an "ax in the stock" give one any special insight into the behavior of a company over and above what others have, and in a way in which one can trade on this information profitably? It is unfortunate for the reader that Weill and Kraushaar did not elaborate on these questions.  

But Weill also credits his success to his constant search for information and voracious reading habits. And in this regard he proves a point that one can step into new environments or take on a brand new set of challenges with a minimal amount of initial knowledge about these environments or challenges. One can engage in learning on-the-fly and still build a successful business, as Weill proves time and again when he acquired new businesses to add to his current ones. His actions in this regard are a definite counterexample to the idea that one must be an expert before entering a realm or environment that is uncertain. Thus it is surprising to hear Weill speak of Jamie Dimon as living in a fantasy world when Dimon stated that he was qualified to take Weill's place. Could not have Dimon learned enough, and done this learning in exactly the way Weill did, so as to be capable of running the company by himself, without the guidance of Weill? 

But there are many important questions that are left unanswered in the book, that the curious reader would naturally want answers to. For example, what is Weill's political affiliation? Did he support the Vietnam war? The first Iraq war? The current conflict in Iraq? What does he think of genetic engineering? What is his current stand on the explosion of technology and its use in banking and finance? With reference to the extreme volatility of the financial markets in the twenty-first century does he favor more market regulation or less? 

Without a painstaking and very difficult study, it would be foolish to conclude that the success of Citigroup, or indeed of any major company, is the result of the actions of a few individuals, even if they are the founders of the company. Consider the following (hypothetical) scenario: A small group of individuals, say two or three, agree to begin a company which within a small time frame begins to be very successful financially. At this point in time it would be difficult to say that the success of the company is not due to the actions of these individuals. After all, it was their decisions, and theirs alone, which were responsible for the initial success of the company. So this success continues, warranting the hiring of new employees because of the increased workload. These employees are instructed to follow the policies and decision-making of the founders, which they do to the best of their ability (and memory). The success of the firm continues to increase, mandating the hiring of even more employees, with the first tier of new employees being granted hiring authority for the second. This new group of employees is instructed to carry out the decisions of the founders, as this is still believed to be the formula for success. But sometime down the line the employees begin to formulate ideas and carry out actions that are at odds with the founders. The founders are unaware of these actions and events, are in fact have never even met these employees. The success of the company dramatically increases, and the founders are gleeful that this is the case, and still believe it is their policies and ideas that have made the company successful. This continues, with the company growing by leaps and bounds. Technology enters the picture, along with still many new employees. The founders ideas are put out in policy reports but are essentially ignored by the majority of employees. The company thrives but due to their status as owners the founders reap most of the financial reward, all the while believing that it was they who were responsible for the company's success....

Near the very end of the book, Weill discusses some of his personal psychology, his attitudes about marriage and how he is dealing with retirement. Critics charge him with being "insecure" in his seemingly insatiable desire to acquire other companies. Weill may indeed be insecure, but perhaps his life and ambitions can better be explained by something else: by the genetic makeup and biology of his brain. As cognitive neuroscience matures as a field, much is being learned about the neural causes of financial decision-making. Indeed, there are three areas of the brain that cognitive neuroscientists believe affect monetary decisions, namely the amygdala and hippocampus, the prefrontal cortex, and the anterior cingulate cortex. The fear of a financial loss is generated in the amygdala, whereas the prefrontal cortex orchestrates the skills and behaviors needed for the successful accomplishment of goals. The anterior cingulate cortex plays a role in judging the value of a reward, and assessing the values of actions directed at specific outcomes. This part of the brain is activated very strongly when expectations or plans are not met. The dopamine systems works in concert with these systems of the brain to bring about pleasure after highly risky endeavors are brought to successful fruition. But abnormalities can develop in these regions or systems, resulting in pathological gambling or uncontrolled and irrational greed. Weill's life, at least as outlined in this book, showed an absence of these negative extremes. He knew when to stop and when to move on. The biology of his brain was perhaps set in just the right way so as to instigate ambition without being foolhardy. Far from being a greedy and insecure individual, Weill may simply have, to paraphrase a title from a Hollywood movie, the right stuff.
