Having read and loved Leslie Pietrzyk's second novel, A YEAR AND A DAY, I wanted to be sure and read PEARS ON A WILLOW TREE.  Such a treat!

Having married into a Polish family, much of this book touched my heart and home!  Such fun, such sweet people.  Told from the view of four different characters, this book tells the tale of Polish immigrants and their daughters from a time spanning from 1919 to present day.

Meet Rose, her daughter Helen, her daughter Ginger, and finally, her daughter Amy.  This Polish family consists of many more characters, but these ladies spanning four generations tell the tale.

Rose comes over from Poland and starts life fresh and new with her husband in Detroit, Michigan.  Her letters home to her mother are full of anticipation of a good, new life in the land of hope, America.  Rose takes us through her life and then the remaining three generations tell their tales.

The story moves back and forth from character to character, and from past to present and back again.  However, this was not confusing.  I LOVE novels where each character adds their two bits to the story.  Makes for great reading.

When the women of the family gather in the kitchen gossiping, chatting, drinking coffee, eating poppy seed cake, exchaning recipes, I just wanted to pull up a chair, grab a piece of cake and a cup of coffee and join right in!  The description of the Polish food will just make you HUNGRY for a good hot piece of kielbasa!!  YUM!!!!!

Third generation Ginger is the "black sheep" of the family when, immediately after graduating from high school, she leaves her family, friends, and Detroit and moves to Phoenix.  Ginger cannot stand the closeness of her family, how everyone knows everyone's business, and cannot stand Detroit. Ginger also has a drinking problem, which adds to her messed up life.  How her moving affects her family and herself is mainly the idea of the story, but the author does a great job of blending past and present, everyone's perspective, and this equals a good book.

Read this book and then read A YEAR AND A DAY.  Leslie Pietrzyk has the talent to carry off any theme, plot, situation.  I am hoping for future books from her.  She has THE gift.

Thanks!  Pa
