The beginning and the end of Maor's story are compelling.  He spells out exactly what John Napier put in his original "logarithmic" tables--it turns out that these were logs to the base 1/e, shifted by a factor of 10,000,000, even though their creator wouldn't have put it that way.  I was, however, disappointed that no actual *example* is given of a calculation that was made possible by these unusual original tables.  Maor tells us how excited Kepler and others were by the possibilities, and hints that computations involving sines were especially aided, but there's not a single example of how the pre-Briggs (log to base 10) logarithm was ever used.  (And let me point out that this is not an obvious matter; after extensive googling I have only been able to locate very artificial examples of what Napier's very incomplete tables were good for.)

Still, the opening chapters on the "pre-history" of e (before the invention of calculus) are one of the strongest parts of this book.  Where Maor gets bogged down is in the long digression telling of the invention of calculus and the bitter priority dispute.  In my opinion, there's a solid block of dead weight beginning from the first page of Chapter 8, and Maor doesn't get his steam back until the latter part of Chapter 11 (when we meet the truly "mirabilis" logarithmic spiral).

Some of the sidebars are excellent--e.g. the math behind terminal velocity, which makes parachuting possible ("The Parachutist") and the Weber-Fechner law, which claims to give a mathematical model of human response to affective stimuli ("Can Perceptions Be Quantified?").

As in his "Trigonometric Delights," Maor excels in presenting the world of complex analysis that was opened up by Leonhard Euler in the 18th century.  Some background is really required to enjoy all this, but, if you have it, you are treated to the Cauchy-Riemann equations, and to excellent discussions (partly relegated to the appendices) of the equiangularity of the logarithmic spiral (proved with an elegant conformal mapping) and the full range of geometric and analytic analogies between the circular functions (sine, cosine, etc.) and their hyperbolic counterparts (cosh, sinh, etc.).

All in all, I recommend this title, but do skim over the tedious exposition of calculus & the priority dispute
