"He'll be near the grindstone," Father said, leaning down so I could hear him against the noise of gears and workers. "He likes that's big stone. You heard him in the buggy, making the sound."

"Shooda, Shooda." I can still hear the sound of Jacob making the sound of a mill. Lois Lowry the author of The Silent Boy made you feel like you were in the story, like it was real. The Silent Boy is realistic fiction, a story of how Katy Thatcher and Jacob coming from two separate worlds developed an unusual friendship and understanding.
	Lois Lowry did a magnificent job grabbing the reader. The book starts out as Katherine introducing herself as an old woman, and telling her story of how Jacob changed her life forever. This book starts out in 1910, in the country. Jacob was a touched boy that developed a friendship with Katy. Throughout the book Jacob and Katy were gradually blending together. Katy didn't think of him as someone different or touched, she thought of him as a regular person. 
	This book moved me, made me see through the eyes of touched boys back in 1910. They were talked behind, made fun of, and left out just because they're different. Jacob was truly unique. This is a life lesson on friendship and family. There is an amazing plot twist that you will not be able to put the book down. 
	 In The Silent Boy, Katy is a humble, courageous, interesting 8-year-old girl. She looks up to her father she wants to be just like him and she is determined to become a doctor, just like him. Katy is so full of love and loyalty. Jacob is caring, he loves animals and animals love him. Jacob is hard working; he feeds the horses and helps his father as much as he can. Peggy is hard working also; she helps out Katy's mother with the new baby Mary. Peggy is a fun, loving person. Katy's father is a caring, hard working person. He is a doctor and he will do anything to cure a patient. 
	So, if you like books with incredible language. The Silent Boy is the book for you. It's a book for people who are interested in the past, and if you like books that you can't put down.
