Sin City: The Hard Goodbye comes packed with the new version of Sin City, and truthfully, it wasn't really needed. The movie follows the book so well that it feels as if you're watching the movie over again as you read. Frank Miller did a hell of a job in this aspect at keeping the movie as true to the book as possible, with Robert Rodriguez's help, of course.

(Possible Spoiler) Mostly everybody who is a fan of Sin City would say that Marv is their favorite character, or at least his story is the best. The graphic novel contains a lot of controversy, with the killing of priests, plenty of nudity, and a load of gore and violence, and it comes off darkly from the pages with Frank Miller's unique, film noir style for this book. You can feel the anger of Marv as he goes from kill to kill, and slowly you start to sense just how gone his mind is from his head. Still, he becomes lovable and somewhat altruistic in his quest for revenge because of a couple of redeeming qualities, that being he never hurts women, and he's willing to die for a cause he believes in. The end, though inevitable, is not disappointing, as you would think a monster like him, who has yet to find his place in this world, would be better off gone.

The setting of this book, Sin City, seems to be a dark mixture of New York City and a third world country. The dead or the fallen litter the streets, and only the strongest or richest survive. The only ones capable of any good are usually the worst of the bunch, including Marv. And more often than not, those moments of good turn into something entirely evil, a common aspect in all of the Sin City graphic novels.

The Sin City movie, though true to the graphic novels, left out a lot of stories, so, if you saw the movie, I'd first recommend buying all the books that were missing from the movie, and then complete your collection with The Hard Goodbye, The Big Fat Kill, and That Yellow Bastard later. But definately complete your collection, as this is a classic series sure to be around for a while (it's already been thirteen years since their first print
