A few years ago a friend recommended a new author to me. She said Jeffrey Deavers was absolutely wonderful. Due to new releases by some of my favorite authors, and time constraints with life, I was unable to read any work by Jeffrey Deavers until about 6 months after her suggestion.  Now I realize that delay was one mistake I won't make again. 

The Bone Collector was the type of book that grabs the reader from the first page and doesn't' let go until the very last page. It is my definition of a Thriller! 

Quadriplegic Lincoln Rhyme remains one of the foremost authorities on forensic science, even though he's retired. He's an expert in identifying physical evidence and no one comes close to his expertise. Lincoln sustained his injuries on a crime scene when a beam collapsed on him, shattering his C4 vertebrae. He's given up hope and just wants to die - the last thing on his mind is going back to work. 

That is until he's approached and conned into helping out on a chilling case. A man is found near train tracks buried alive. Clues have been left as to where the next victim can be found and if the law enforcement team hurries they can save her. And that won't be the last victim, so it's a race against the clock to not only save the victims, but to find the identity of the killer. 

Working with Lincoln Rhyme is Amelia Sachs, a police officer who was first on scene that morning with the buried man. She becomes Lincoln's legs and eyes on the crime scenes looking and bagging physical evidence to be examined back at the makeshift lab in Lincoln's bedroom. 

Joining the team are a few other law officers, including Jim Rollings, usually busy meeting with city officials and the media. Thom, Lincoln's assistant/nurse who is there to help him with any task needed and who also doesn't let his bad attitude affect anyone. Then there are a few doctors who come and go, one of them is a doctor of death that is supposed to help Lincoln end it all. And let's not forget the host of law enforcement officers who come and go throughout the book. 

One good writing quality that Jeffrey Deavers exhibits is the weaving of characters in and out of each other's lives. Amelia Sachs becomes very close to Lincoln Rhyme and we see that both have suffered because of their love for law enforcement. Thom is found to be a good friend besides an excellent nurse. It seems that only a few characters are left undeveloped and only appear as a fleeting image on the pages. Deavers introduces the reader to almost all of the characters and that introduction includes getting to know each of them. 

But hands down, the best part of the book is the intrigue, the chilling serial killings, and race to find the murderer. There were times that my heart thundered as I ran with Amelia Sachs to try to save a victim. And trying to figure out the clues was almost as much fun as reading about Rhyme and Sachs figuring them out! 

I consider myself an expert in mysteries - very seldom do they fool me as to the true identity of the villain. Well, I was fooled with this one. I was so misguided that I actually cheered out loud when I realized just how wrong I was. Ah yes, the ultimate twist at the end will leave the reader out of breath and craving the next book by Jeffrey Deavers!
