This book is the type of book you don't want to read in this day and age or escalating weather patterns, many of which do not fit the norm. Years ago, when I first  started reading books of this genre, mainly becasue weather science was one of the sciences that I had not had a significant amount of grounding in, I read a book by Larsen concerning the Galveston hurricane at the turn of the last century. That book left me breathless, and in deep anxiety about the need to know more about a science that is almost impossible to predict. I've read many books on weather since that time, but no other book has come even close to the imagery and detail that that book was able to convey, until I read this one. 

Both of these books are written in different voices, yet they were both books that were near impossible to put down until you had read the entire book. Only one other book comes to mind that brings to mind the sheer uselessness of humanity against nature's onslaught,  and that one was not about a disaster that had already happened but about one that was going to happen, which it did...two years after I read it. That book was the one about the 'mis-engineering' of the Mississippi basin, with the building of man-made levees placed in areas of the river that were not part of the natural flow of the water and the lack of understanding concerning the tides and the natural wildlife of that region. Needless to say, the very predictions that had been made concerning the disaster that was just waiting to happen actually came true, to the great loss of life, and the loss of one of America's most unique cities.

This book on the hurricane of 1938 totally flummoxed me, as it was beyond belief that a huricane of that power could reach so far up the Eastern seaboard, and yet, the possibilities and probaabilities of it happening again with a much more significant loss of life  and the disruption of our economy is just too powerful to dismiss as a disaster that can only happen once in a several  centuries. We cannot afford to miss this one, because the eastern seaboard is much more powerfully built up than it was in 1938, and the probability of a disaster along the line of all the disasters in the world being tied together is definitely there. 

I would sincerely recommend this book as essentially reading for survivalists and for those who are involved in urban planning to read. It cannot be ignored at this point. A much needed reminder that we know so little about so much, and that we need to learn more to prevent ourselves from ruining this fragile world we live in...

Karen L. Sadle
