The engineering process for forecasting scarcity is as follows: 1. Estimate the presently known physical quantity of the 2. Extrapolate the future rate of use from the current use rate; and 3. Subtract the successive estimates of use in from inventory.

The economic process for forecasting is as follows: 1. ask whether there is any convincing reason to think that the period for which you are forecasting will be different from the past, going back as far as the data will allow; 2. if there is no good reason to reject the past trend as representative of the future as well, ask whether there is a reasonable explanation for the observed trend; 3. if there is no reason to believe that the future will be different than from the past, and if you have a solid explanation for the trend-or even if you lack a solid theory, but the data are overwhelming-project the trend into the future.

There is a wide disparity between engineering and economic forecasting.  "Prediction is always a leap of faith; there is no scientific guarantee from past to future.  The correctness of an assumption that what happened in the past will similarly happen in the future rests on your wise judgment and knowledge of your subject matter."  "A prediction based on past data is sound if it is sensible to assume that the past and the future belong to the same statistical universe, that is, if you can expect conditions that held in the past to remain the same in the future.  Ask yourself, "have conditions changed in recent years in such manner that the data on natural resources generated over the many past decades are no longer relevant."

The costs of natural resources have been steadily declining.  Another way of thinking about costs is the proportion of ones total income to get them.  This measure reveals a steady decline.  "This trend makes it clear that the cost of minerals-even if it becomes considerably higher, which we have no reason to expect-is almost irrelevant to our standard of living, and hence an increased scarcity of mineral is not a great danger to our peacetime standard of living.

World reserves do not go down they even go up.  The anti-intuitive conclusion is that even as we use coal and oil and iron and other natural resources, they are becoming less scarce.  

As soon as information about an impending scarcity becomes known and accepted, people begin buying the commodity; they bid up the present market price until it reflects the expected future scarcity.  In 1973, Japanese overreacted to OPEC supply manipulation. "The Japanese, and above all Japanese officialdom, were seized by hysteria in 1974 when raw materials shortages were cropping up everywhere.  They bought and bought and bought (copper, iron, pulp, sulfur, and coking coal).  Now they are frantically trying to get out of commitments to take delivery, and have slashed raw materials imports nearly in half.  Even so, industrial inventories are bulging with high-priced raw materials."  Japan paid heavy for the blunder.  Mineral resources will not rise in real price but only adjust for inflation.

The prophecies of "Limits to Growth" are false.  Interestingly, China attempted to control growth resulting in millions starving.  The Chinese chose to start having babies.  The Chinese government responded with force and implemented a policy of one child per family.  A political scientist discussing the relationship of resources to national security refers to the "incontrovertible fact that many crucial resources are nonrenewable".  "The assumption of finiteness indubitably misleads many scientific forecasters because their conclusions follow inexorably from that assumption.  Limits to Growth gives this false doctrine, "The world model is based on the fundamental assumption that there is an upper limit to the total amount of food that can be produced annually by the world's agricultural system". John Maynard Keynes doctrine of diminishing returns implied an assertion impending scarcity in Europe. "Law of diminishing returns" fails because there is no law that compels cost to rise.  Technology advancements mitigate the effects of diminishing returns when applied to costs.

Price is the key.  Low prices cause innovation.  Innovation reduces inefficiency.  Increased efficiency improves discovery of new resources or a substitute process or commodity: Kerosene for oil, electricity for steam, and possibility hydrogen for hydro. Future generations will be better off for the discovery.  Heighten scarcity causes prices to rise.  The higher prices present opportunity and prompt investors and entrepreneurs to search for solutions. In a free society solutions are eventually found.  

Infinite resource.  "Even if energy is the relevant constraint for fabricating new kinds of raw materials, on would need to take into account, at the very least, all the mass/energy in the solar system.  This amount is so huge relative to our use of energy, even by many multiples of the present population and many multiples of the present rate of individual use, that the end of the solar system in seven billion years or whenever would hardly be affected by our energy use now."

Man has a strong propensity towards creation rather than destruction.  We can expect a positive preponderance of creativity over our exploitative activities.  We are not at a turning point of destruction.  Instead there is a reliable long-term pattern of non-scarcity exists.

The "Population Bomb" is erroneous, "the battle to feed all of humanity is over.  In the 1970s the world will undergo famines-hundreds of millions of people are going to starve to death".   Food production is so complete that if government subsidies did not artificially hold up the prices then food prices would drop to lower levels.  More food is grown on less land and with less labor.   Erosion losses are mitigated, as farmers move towards flat land agriculture.  Flat land is farmed using large equipment, automated irrigation systems, and better fertilizers.  Economy of scale increases supply.  Food production in the US could be immediately enlarged if the government stopped paying farmers to keep idle land.  The price of wheat has fallen adjusted for inflation even as the world demand for wheat increased.  "Food supply increased because of agricultural knowledge resulting from research and development that was induced by the increased demand, together with the improved ability of farmers to get their produce to market on better transportation."  All-important historical trends point towards cheaper food.   Famines were caused by government policies: 1958 Chinese famine (30 million died) and 1930s Ukranians (7 million died), and Africa and Somolia distribution breakdowns and warlord profiteering.  In 1991, China had reversed its scarcity problems and was shipping grain and meat to the Soviets.  India can vastly improve its food production and seek to match Japan and Taiwan food production levels. Better storage would reduce waste to pests by 15-20 percent.  In short run costs increase, but in the long run population pressures reduce costs.

Hydroponics is sufficiently practical that one supermarket has built a 10,000 sq ft vegetable garden. Phytofarm in Dekalb, Illinois produces mainly lettuce and other garden vegetables in a factory measuring 200 by 250 feet, at a rate of a ton of food per day, enough to completely feed 500 to 1000 people.  Energy from artifical light is the key raw material in state-of-the-art hydroponics.  Even at present electricity costs, PhytoFarm is profitable, and its food prices are affordable at ordinary American incomes.  The entire present population of the world could be supplied with a square area about 140 miles on a side.  Phytofarm techniques could feed a hundred times the world present population, say 500 billion people, on 1 percent of present farmland.

Fish farms have begun to produce at or near competitive prices.  The main obstacle to a rapid increase in aquaculture costs and hence is that wild fish are too cheap to invite competition.  Aquaculture capacity can be expanded almost indefinitely.

We believe too much bad news.  We need to have more faith in free markets and innovation.  Land is almost irrelevant to food production.  

The sharp rise in the 1970s provides an illustrative case history of government intervention in the energy market.  Conventional experts predicted a continued rise to say $3 a barrel by 1990s.  The 1979 OPEC prices rise were the result of cartel agreements and not extraction cost increases.  If one wants to know about he world's capacity to produce oil, the appropriate indicator is the cost of production and transportation and for oil the cost remains a small portion of the production costs.  During the energy crisis the cost of oil did not raise at all and it remain 1 percent of the selling price of crude.  The energy prices to the consumer had been falling continually.  In the face of world-wide surplus of oil, Saudi Arabia and several other OPEC nations cut their oil production by 10 percent.  "Still another waste due to false energy scares was the $15 billion thrown away on the development of synthetic fuels."  "Government price-regulation system had the effect of supporting the OPEC cartel's price-fixing power and subsidizing member countries operations".  The government measures harmed the consumer causing short-run shortages and long-run diminishing supply.  

When OPEC boosted the price of oil in 1973, the price of uranium began to jump from $8 to $53 a ton within three years.  This meant that Westinghouse might accrue losses of perhaps $2 billion.  At the same time Gulf Oil together with the Canadian government and other producers of uranium got together to keep the price of uranium high.
