I can tell you for a fact that the stories he tells are accurate because I was around him for a lot of them. I think I met him his first day in SF at the SFOB in Nha Trang,and we were both running missions out of Kontum the entire time I was there. If I wasn't around when he did some of the things he talks about,I heard about them from him or others when I got back to the camp. Of course,he was there after I was medi-evaced in Nov of 1969,so I wasn't there when he earned the MOH.

In fact,I had gotten out of the army and did the same thing 99% of the veterans did,I tried to put it entirely out of my mind. I didn't speak about it and I didn't think about it. It came as a surprise to me to walk into Walden Books one day and spot him on the cover of his book getting his MOH! "Hey! I know that guy!" I immediately bought the book and took it home to read.

This was the first I even knew he had survived,and it was the reason I got back in touch with him after almost 30 years. We shared Thanskgiving Dinner together at the unit mess at Camp Mackall the November before he fell sick and died. 

If you have ever wondered about the mindset of the people who run special operations,here are the answers. If you have only read VN books written by draftees who write about the heavy drama,drug abuse,and political crap,you are going to be surprised. Not everybody in VN were draftee war protestors,and not everbody there was doing their damndest to avoid combat. Some people were actually going out of their way to carry a rifle in a combat unit. Not only that,but most people would be surprised at the high number of recon and Hatchet Force troops that extended their tours for six months after surviving the intital tour. It even came as a surprise to ME when I extended my tour. I still can't tell you why,other than I felt like I was a part of something important doing a job that needed to be done.

If you want to buy and read this book,PLEASE consider going to the web site below to buy it. This is the hardcover version of the book,and all of the money from the sales of it go to his children. He left behind two teenage children and a infant when he died. I thank you in advance if you do.

(...
