Martin Cruz Smith is a former journalist and magazine editor. "Polar Star" was first published in 1998 and is the second of his books - after "Gorky Park" - to feature Arkady Renko. 
 
Renko was once the Chief Homicide Investigator for Moscow's militia - more or less the `standard' police force, which saw Renko dealing with the `everyday'. (The KGB dealt with the really interesting cases). However, following the investigation outlined in "Gorky Park", Renko's life and career has taken a major nosedive. He's been dismissed from the Prosecutor's Office, dismissed from the Party for a lack of `political reliability' and sentenced to a life in Siberia - but only after being kept for psychiatric `observation'. He's found it difficult to make a new life for himself, as his past has always caught up with him. Usually, that costs him whatever job he happened to be doing. He now works as a Seaman (Second Class) on the Polar Star, a factory ship working in American waters between Siberia and Alaska. The operation is a joint Soviet - American venture : the smaller ships, American trawlers, catch the fish, while the Polar Star processes the catch. The Soviets take the fish, while the Americans take the money. 
 
Four months out of Vladivostock, the nets return a little more than the usual catch : the body of Zina Patiashvili. Zina, a pretty blonde who worked in the cafeteria, was well-known onboard. Slava Bukovsky, the ship's third mate, is put in charge of the investigation into Zina's death. However, despite his lack of political reliability, Renko is appointed Bukowsky's assistant by the ship's captain, Viktor Marchuk. The captain makes it absolutely clear he wants no suggestion of a cover-up or a lack of a proper investigation. Things are made a little complicated, however, by the American fishermen : many of them were onboard the night Zina died, attending a dance in the cafeteria. 
 
While Marchuk doesn't appear too bother with Renko's lack of political reliability, the ship's first mate, Volovoi, isn't quite so forgiving, Volovoi is no sailor, despite his position : he holds his rank as the ship's Political Officer. Therefore, he's responsible for morale and discipline and reports directly to the KGB. It's clear to Renko that Zina was murdered, though it appears that some of the officers would prefer a verdict of suicide. Contrary to the captain's orders, Volovoi wants to be in absolute control : he wants no information to be passed to the Americans and to be briefed before any report is made to Marchuk. Volovoi's duties include writing a report on every crew member for the KGB. He makes it clear that Arkady's only hope of ever setting foot on dry land again rests on a very positive evaluation in that report. Trapped on a ship with conflicting orders from the senior officers and the strong possibility that the murderer  is a fellow sailor, this is going to be a difficult investigation. 
 
I enjoyed "Polar Star" a great deal - even more, I think, than "Gorky Park". However, I would recommend starting with "Gorky Park", as there are several nods to Renko's past. Definitely recommended. 
