Before reading Sea of Glory I had not heard of the U.S. Exploring Expedition or any of its crew members. Having read Nathaniel Philbrick's wonderful account of the voyage I find its continued obscurity striking. Despite the tremendous controversy that surrounded "the Ex. Ex." and its volatile commander, it made significant and lasting contributions to science, cartography, and the international reputation of the United States. In addition to discovering Antarctica and charting much of its coast, the expedition mapped an incredible number of islands and coastlines and returned a treasure trove of scientific observations and specimens.

Sea of Glory is, at its core, an adventure story. Hundreds of men and a half-dozen ships set sail knowing they would be at sea for at least three years. In addition to sailing into (literally) uncharted waters, the men would have to survive a host of challenges if they were to return home. The ships were tossed about by storms, battered by icebergs, and severely damaged by reefs and sandbars. The men themselves, meanwhile, had to deal with frigid temperatures, angry natives, and their always unpredictable commander, Charles Wilkes. The reader will quickly appreciate how incredibly dangerous the journey was and marvel at the fact that anyone survived it.

Beyond the rigors of life at sea and the impressive accomplishments of the expedition, I was especially struck by how different the world was just a century and a half ago. No one knew the location or size of Antarctica, assuming it even existed. The west coast of North America was barely charted and was not at all certain to become part of the United States. A sailing expedition consisting of six ships and just a handful of scientists was able to profoundly impact multiple branches of science.

Because the Exploring Expedition was a government-sanctioned, scientific endeavor, all of its members were required to keep detailed journals during the voyage. Thanks to this requirement, Philbrick is able to provide a highly detailed account of all that happened and allows his readers to see into the minds of both the commander and the crew. It is certainly a story worth reading and I will recommend Sea of Glory to others. You will find this book especially enjoyable if you are a fan of Magellan, Cook, or other maritime explorers
