Former Terrorizer editior Nick Terry states up front in his introduction that this book isn't intended to be a thorough cataloguing of all the second and third string death metal bands that have come about over the last 15 years, and "Choosing Death" is the better book for it.  Every book that I've read thus far on the history of heavy metal (in general) gaffs when they get to the part about the extreme bands.  For instance, in listing the seminal forebearers of the genre they'll commonly cite bands like Napalm Death, Carcass, Morbid Angel, etc. and then - just to appear they really know their stuff - they'll throw in a mention of some extremely minor band that I've never even heard of half the time, despite the fact that I've been listening to death metal voraciously since 1990, even reviewing the genre in various periodicals up until a few years ago.  Which is not to say I've heard of every death metal band worth listening to, but if they were a huge influence on the genre there's no way they've escaped my notice all this time.  

On the other hand, "Choosing Death" is the first overview of death metal, comprehensive or otherwise, that has trimmed the fat completely.  Except for the final chapter which discusses various spin offs that were influenced by death metal (a guaranteed controversy if there ever was one) such as "nu-metal", there is no mention of any bands that weren't extremely important to the genre.

I do, however, have to knock off one star for the later chapters, which offer little insight into the decline of death metal in the mid-90s aside from the usual "market saturation" issues.  And hey, there may be nothing more to it than that, although it's debatable, but nonetheless it makes for uninteresting reading to have so many sources repeating the same opinions just to fill an appropriate amount of space in the book.  I'm sure the author didn't want to gloss over several years worth of death metal, but in his quest to avoid relying on third stringers to tell the story of death metal's history and evolution, he focuses too much on the Earache, Roadrunner, and Nuclear Blast bands and ignores the minor acts that were carrying the torch during the time period.  

The loss of a star also carries over into the aforementioned source material, much of the quoting coming from either Earache head Digby Pearson or various ex-Earache acts.  There is very little input from the heads of other labels, such as Roadrunner or Nuclear Blast, and though Earache is without a doubt the go-to label for the early history of death metal, Digby himself admits that he kind of lost sight of where the extreme metal frontier was in the mid-to-late 90s, favoring hardcore techno acts long past the point where the fans demurred (in fact, to this day Earache is far from having made a comeback, most of their current roster being filled by a variety of third-string non-sellers).  Century Media has been the backbone of the metal scene for going on ten years now and the label's influence is shamefully neglected in the later chapters.

Nonetheless, four stars, if nothing else for the excellent history of the scene up to and including the Columbia/Earache licensing deal falling apart.  Hopefully in a later edition the author can go back and further flesh out the aftermath of that event.  In the current edition, the subsequent chapters just read like one long anti-climax
