Being a relatively new reader of children's books, I tend to go about my systematic reading of all good picture books out there in a backwards manner.  Case in point, Andrea Davis Pinkney.  I first came across this writer, and her talented hubby Brian, through their lovely, "Ella Fitzgerald: The Tale of a Vocal Virtuoso".  It was through that book that I discovered that the art of scratchboard (remember having to do those in elementary school?) can produce some truly fabulous picture book art.  After reading "Ella" I doubled back and found her 1999 Caldecott Honor winning baby, "Duck Ellington".  The book that started it all.  Also using scratchboard (and without relying on fictional talking felines ala "Ella") the book is a whirlwind biography of one of the world's jazzy greats.  There are tons of picture books about jazz musicians out there today.  Only one, however, has garnered both the Coretta Scott King Award and the Caldecott Honor.
	
In this tale we meet Duke from his baseball playing days in Washington, D.C. Children everywhere will sympathize when Duke decides that learning to play the piano is a waste of his time and that he'd much rather be out and about with his friends.  Fast forward a couple years and an older pool shooting Duke hears the sweet sounds of ragtime for the very first time.  Suddenly the piano doesn't sound so lame, and Duke teaches himself the rudiments of it immediately.  Over time, his particular style and talents get him jobs in clubs and cabarets and at last he forms his own band.  From here on in the book's a whirlwind series of visits to places like the Cotton Club (which I think illustrator Brian Pinkney probably failed to base after the real club itself) and, at long last, New York's Carnegie Hall in 1943.  A matter-of-fact bio at the back as well as a complete bibliography of sources (well done there) round out this lively encapsulation of a life.
	
Kids are often assigned biographies in school, and "Duke Ellington" has the advantage of being both interesting and filled to the brim with sources and facts.  The story is as lively as Ms. Pinkney could make it, often going into deep descriptions of individual players' talents in the Duke's band.  The art is lovely as well.  Using luma dyes, gouache, and oil paint and then rendering it in a scratchboard style, there's a real throbbing beauty to some of these paintings.  In a final picture Duke conducts his band in a purple suit and the notes of the players curl out as almost iridescent swirls and waves.  Altogether lovely.
	
In many ways, the book's going to be a bore to those kinds who've never heard a jazz note in their lives and don't understand the importance.  If at all possible, try finding a copy of that incredibly amazing film "Cabin In the Sky" and showing it to the kids and THEN give them this book.  The movie's worth checking out and Duke (with his orchestra) is wonderful in it.
	
Though this is perhaps not my favorite jazz picture book out there (I've still some very fond feelings for "Charlie Parker Played Be Bop") it's still quite a wonder and worth checking out.  A necessary addition to any well-rounded children's biography section of their local library.
