One of the sad facts of human nature is that those who have been persecuted, downtrodden, and discriminated against often do the same to others once they have escaped from their own situation. Jones' book focuses on a particularly startling example of this--the ownership of slaves by blacks in the antebellum era in the South.

Henry Townsend is a man whose parents Augustus and Mildred toiled for many years to buy his freedom. Henry was an ambitious, smart man, and aligning himself with William Robbins, the wealthiest landowner in the area, Henry started to buy slaves to build his own plantation. When Henry dies, things fall apart, and the worst fears of all the slaveowners start to materialize--slaves escape, the overseer starts to envision a bright future for himself, and the rage anyone held captive must feel boils to the surface.

Jones weaves a beautiful, complex tale of whites and blacks joined at the hip in a complicated economic and social relationship, but always wary and uneasy with each other. There's Calvin, who wants to set his father's slaves free, knowing that for that same reason his mother poisoned the father. There's Fern, an educated, cultured woman, wound so tight that she never realizes she loves the man she bought. There's Caledonia, Henry's wife, with all the right instincts to be a good master, who lets a slave come too close. And there's the sheriff, John Skiffington, who tries to do the right thing and yet loses it when a black refuses to cooperate in letting him do his job. 

Although fiction, Jones' book brims over with many fascinating details of slave's and free blacks' lives. One could buy freedom, but had to leave his or her home within a year to move to a free state. Some were exempt, and through convoluted arrangements that involved owning one's wife and kids, sometimes the family could stay put too. "Free" of course was a relative term, as the terrible fate of Henry's parents shows. Jones shows us the odd relationships that could grow up between master and slave in these circumstances--some got too close, others feared for their lives despite the slave's being the owner's closest confidante, caregiver and friend. 

"The Known World" has a plot that weaves back and forth and forward and back, and often the many characters enter the story without any introduction. We enter in the middle, as Henry lays dying, and you are left to assemble the plot on your own.  This makes for slow going at first, but the story quickly gripped me as I had to find out how the tantalizing bits and pieces fit together. Stick with it!

