This is her diary account of their last years in Dakota Territory. It was a rough draft and was not completed for publication during Laura's lifetime. There is a difference in tone from earlier books; there is more reality. The Wilder farm in Mansfield Missouri is now on exhibit.

"The First Year" discusses life on the farm and its economics. Its hard work, but a man can make more money and be an owner. Laura and Manly discuss the type of wedding they could have. Their home and its contents are described. Manly bought a sulky plow which would be more productive, and a small riding pony for Laura. Fall was the time to butcher their fat pig. Riders pass by, and wild geese fly south. There is a sudden snow storm that hides the house from the barn; a clothesline is helpful. The storm killed a man, and cattle. The poor harvest meant few Christmas presents. The return of wild geese marked the end of winter. Laura meets the doctor and learns she will have a baby. Manly bought a new binder to harvest the wheat. A good harvest would pay off their debts. But a hailstorm came and flattened their wheat! They would get money by moving to the homestead and borrowing a mortgage. They sold hay and used oat straw for their horses.

"The Second Year" begins with their move to the homestead. Hay was their only crop. The activities of the wild geese promised a mild winter. Laura had an eight pound baby girl name Rose, strong and healthy. Then a blizzard hit in the middle of April! Two visitors were caught and froze to death. A lower yield of grain allowed paying the interest and redeeming some of the smaller notes. They hadn't done so badly.

"The Third Year" began with a new hard-coal heater which would provide better heat for the family. Laura and Manly were sick with diphtheria, and Manly had complications. They sold the homestead and moved back to the tree farm. They rode their ponies to exercise them. Laura buys 100 sheep with her Cousin Peter, who stays with them to help out. Hot winds ruined their wheat crop. But they cut more hay from the common land.

"A Year of Grace" begins with their evaluation of the past 3 years. Their crops mostly failed, but one good crop would even things up. They had more cows, calves, horses, colts, and sheep. The gift of the Waverly novels helps Laura in her daily life. A high wind created a dust storm and difficulties in leading the sheep to their barn. There was a threat of a prairie fire that struck elsewhere. Manly had to buy more seed wheat and oats to replace all that was lost to this wind. But the shearing of the sheep repaid their costs and gave a surplus. The many lambs doubled their flock. Farmers are dependent on the weather, yet must pay interest and taxes and buy what they needed to live. Manly owed 3% per month on the money borrowed for re-seeding. They could buy a book of coupons for groceries at 2% per month. The lack of rain was bad for the grain, then hot winds killed the wheat and oats; even the trees. Manly would have to file on their homestead, but would lose everything if they could not raise the cash when due. A tornado passes close to their home. Tragedy occurs when their baby son dies. Then the kindling for the stove caught fire and burned down their house! A long shanty was quickly built. They would be able to sell their surplus stock, and maybe next year would be better.

[The story ends here. Perhaps this unhappy story would not be salable during the Great Depression? The 'Introduction' guesses that Almanzo's death presented Laura from continuing and finishing this work.]
