Mary Lovell's interesting book on the Mitford sisters (and on Tom, the ill-fated brother) is a guilty pleasure indeed.  Lovell has a completely new take on things that urges us to find Diana Mosley a brave 20th century heroine who fought for what she believed in and whose imprisonment during the first part of World War II was a shocking act of injustice comparable to the internment of Japanese-Americans in prison camps in the USA.  Revisionist much?  Yes, indeed, and that's part of its fascination.  Lovell seems most determined to set on its ear David Pryce-Jones' biography of Unity Mitford.  Unity, the tortured British Nazi who set her cap on the biggest Nazi of them all, Adolf Hitler, here emerges as the funniest and cutest of all the funny and cute sisters.  Yes, Lovell admits, she should not have laughed when Hitler boasted of forcing a party of Jews to cut a sward of German lawn with their teeth alone--that was cruel and unMitfordlike.  But outside of that, did Unity really do any actual harm?  Lovell says no.

Meanwhile there is a continual hum of approval for Debo, Duchess of Devonshire, and her substantial work keeping together her husband's ancestral estates.  For Lovell, preservation work of a zillionaire's estate merits the highest commendation.

Decca (Jessica) Mitford, comes off the worst, and her elopement with Spanish Civil War buff, and her first cousin, Edmond Romilly, shows how unfeeling she was to her mother and father, and she stayed a Communist for years and years (until 1958) when she should have abjured the party years ago.  Well, she should never have joined up in the first place.

Many reviewers praise Lovell's evenhandedness and lack of judgement, but I haven't seen a trace of an even hand.  In one telling passage Decca is stuck overnight in an Alabama church with Martin Luther King Jr, while Ku Klux Klan and 1,500 other white protestors surround the church with tear gas.  "The uproar," Lovell writes, "had been caused by the surprise appearance at the event of the Freedom Fighters, a sort of flying squad pf black youths on motorcycles, who were much feared  by whites in the Southern states."  Oh so that's why it happened, eh?  Why not just say, "The uproar has been caused by racism"?  That's shorter and much more on point than your ridiculous "Freedom Fighter" excuse.

Debo and Pam aren't in the book that much, and Pam is like the invisible woman.  When she goes gay ("she's become a you-know-what-bian," Decca writes to her husband) Lovell makes absolutely no comment, though she analyzes every little variation on the Mitfords' uncountable family nicknames.  It's obviously not important to her, but it leaves the reader thinking, well, Pam is really a bore, which is terribly unfair to Pam (she whom her sisters called, "Woman," for she was the best of all of them) who deserves a biography of her own, one in which the biographer didn't wish her away with a "well done, Pam" from time to time.

That said, the book is like a big box of delicious candy and you just can't stop eating it till all of the sisters die (but one) and we are left contemplating the terrible, wonderful legacy of an aristocracy who could do whatever they pleased and managed to get it wrong 95 per cent of the time, empty candy wrappers scattering in the breeze.  I loved it, pretty much
