In following Steve's easy to follow steps in his First book to" Bag the elephant, we bagged our first elephant, and have now in the last year and a half bagged 4 more.

In the "Be the Elephant" book I was glad to find out that we have been doing many of the things that Steve recommends to build a bigger ,better business. One of our mottos here at my company is that we need to Grow or we will die. We have increased our Sales 6 fold and our Net Profit 11 fold in the last 7 years. Along the way we have increased our infrastructure to support the growth with qualified employees from outside the company, but with the first choice being and employee to promote from within. 

We have increased our revenues by Vertically selling more of our items within our existing accounts,ie: Packaging items to the accounts who were only buying Corrugated and Vice Versa, thereby being  a One stop shop for the customers shipping supplies.  We have grown horizontally into other geographic areas in the US with our new "Elephant "Customers which has been the best of both worlds for us. 

Due to the new geographic area scenarios, we are evaluating if it is a good business decision to open up a Distribution Center in a new Geographic area by using Steve's Risk vs. Reward factor.

I have also implemented "Start it and Chart it" with great success.

I have monthly Manager Meetings where I now use Steve's chart, where we review progress reports and timelines that are attached. I find that now that people are accountable, and on the hook to perform, there is peer pressure on them to fulfill the task. 

I am still working on creating a USP for my company.

My company  formed Strategic Alliances  4 years ago with our major Vendors .It was put forth from the beginning of the growth process to these Vendors  that the ones who partner  with me in the beginning,  will be the ones that  I will be loyal to in return  as we grow. My largest Vendors have grown from thousand of dollars a year back in 2003, to millions of dollars a year in 2007.

I feel we have been successful by building the organization with good people and developing there skills to best suit the job at hand. We have maintained steady growth and profitability by keeping" Service" at the forefront of our business model. We will get the Customer their product, when they want it. Also, making sure that as we get bigger our current customers will not see any decrease in service.

