Several reviewers have submitted that the highest life Aristotle proposes consists in "hard work" or is "the most difficult life."  I am afraid this language does not accurately present Aristotle's description.  Aristotle writes in these lecture notes that the contemplative life is "superior to the human level" (1177b27).  Yet, he distinguishes it from the secondary lives by saying that these secondary lives "require trouble" (1177b18).

Aristotle calls the contemplative life the most pleasant life (1177a25ff).  Certainly, study can be hard work; but this is not hard work in the sense of toil.  To work towards the truth and contemplate it once attained requires little strain.  It is done as the virtuous agent does the right action in any given circumstance: with ease.  Through the influence of Kant (and possibly the Stoics), we often associate virtue with denying the passions and overcoming the greatest obstacles; likewise, we associate vice with the passions overcoming reason.  In this sense, the most virtuous person would have no passions at all.  However, Aristotle suggests that passions only conflict with reason in a lower moral character.  When reason prevails and one does the right action against passion's urges, he calls this 'enkrasia'; when the passions overcome, he calls this 'akrasia'.  

However, the internal discord present in these characters are not present in the virtuous (and the vicious).  The virtuous character is the most reliable and participates in the definition of virtue itself because the agent has habituated the passions to follow reason.  His or her passions actually encourage the agent to do what is right.  (Note: the vicious agent, through doing base actions, no longer recognizes them as such, and so reason and passion coincide in doing what is wrong).

Applying these distinctions to the contemplative life, we see that this activity is not work at all in the sense of toil.  The activity requires effort for sure; but, this effort is the most enjoyable for the agent.  It engages what is highest in the human person and when it is carried out through a (morally and intellectually) virtuous character, this activity turns out to be the most pleasurable.  So while pleasure is not the human good and not the measure of happiness, it is wrong to think that the good life is not pleasant for the eudaimon.  It is only a stuggle for those still on the way to achieving it
