Not many writers are able to at his/her early twenties to have such a exquisite view of the world and complex subjects as Carson McCullers displays in her beautiful "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter". Maybe the fact that she was a sort of precocious genius she wrote the book helped her to sharp her senses to create a world apart inhabited by ordinary people, just trying to live their ordinary lives. 

Her condition of being young also influenced her in the novel. As most young people, she didn't have many life experiences yet; therefore much of her inspiration comes from her own life and the people she knew. Her father was a jeweler, like Mick's father. She also studied piano -- and this is one of Mick's dreams. Moreover, Mick's coming of age has a lot in common with Carson's. She started working on this book when she was at the university and her idea was to make a novel about five isolated people, in which the narrative's structure would be inspired by a fugue (a musical composition featuring several repeating themes).

In the first part, she introduces the characters, the settings and the main thematic, which deals with of "man's revolt against his own inner isolation and his urge to express himself as fully as possible". Her main man in this case is the deaf-mute John Singer. The second part is the failure of each character, due to his options (and lack of them) and free will. The third part shows the faith of each character, and what they made of their lives after they met Singer.

Unquestionably the main theme is the isolation and the alienation of the human being. Each character -- even the supporting ones -- tries to break out their condition. The isolation is the result of the combination of personal and environmental factors. In this process, Singer -- who has the most difficult to communicate -- plays a key role to help each of the four main characters to find their own voice. He represents the hope throughout the whole narrative.

Carson has a hand to deal with the lost dream. Everyone in this novel cannot fulfill his/her dreams. The girl Mick, for instance, is too smart for her family, for her town; therefore she has to suffocate her talents and become an ordinary person. But, in her mind, she can keep the flame of her dream of becoming a musician alive.

Carson deals beautiful with language and character development. From the beginning one can notice that this is a writers who dominates her tool -- and not the other way round. Every character has his/her own motivations and these people change throughout the narrative. Because of it, "The heart is a lonely hunter" is a complex slice of life. More than a book, this novel X-rays ordinary lives and expose them, bringing us a little bit of hope to diminish our own sadness. 
