 This book quite literally has left me quite speechless, though you wouldn't guess that from this review. I am a proponent of Piper's hedonistic approach to Christianity, but I didn't expect to like this book to the extent that I did. I looked at the title and thought that the word "Sex" was being used to sell more copies of a book and that the chapters within the book would contain scriptural manipulations toward this end. Thankfully that was not my experience. What I found in this book was bold, accurate, loving truth. It was almost jarring how much better this book was when compared with my preconceived expectations. Shame on me!

The chapters of the book complement each other extremely well, which is significant when you stop to consider that this is not a book with only one or two authors. John Piper, C. J. and Carolyn Mahaney, Mark Dever, Al Mohler and other solid writers all contributed to the book. Though the chapters did work well with each other, I still couldn't shake the sense of reading a collection of essays rather than than a unified book toward the end. I enjoyed reading each of the sections, but had to skip from one writing style to another. I want to stress that this did not reduce my enjoyment of the book, but it did cause me to stop reading at each chapter and come back to the book for the next author.

For lack of a better picture, this book (though it is wholesome) is like a Big Mac. Two all-beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun. Not every ingredient is as large as another. You may prefer to snack on the pickles on their own and not the onions. Taken on their own, each part alone doesn't make for a sandwich. Each part, though, comes together to form their part of the whole and a Big Mac is formed. None of the essays in the book could be a book on their own, and each one flavors the others while retaining their own individuality. I have no doubt that any one of the authors could write a book to their respected audience and would welcome such a series.

The first part is entitled "God and Sex." It shows that if God is the Lord of all things, sex must be one of those things. If all things work together for the good of those who are called according to God's purpose, which is His glory, then you cannot exclude sex. How and when we come together must be honoring to God if our unions are to be pleasing to Him. His glory is being, and will continue to be shown, either through the thankful people who seek His glory in the covenant of marriage or through the justice upon those who do not.

In the second part, "Sin and Sex," Albert Mohler Jr. revealed truths that most people would never consider. Early in the book, he showed that, while sexual sins may be the "marquee" sins, they are usually not the root of the problem. Just like the dandelions in my yard, the unseen deep root has to be killed if the flower is to stop appearing above the surface. His recalling a time when he counseled a young man gripped by pornography really highlighted this point. Sexual sins are sins on their own, but more often, they are the symptoms of deeper problems that must be dealt with if one is to truly experience victory in the battle of the flesh and a purer reconciliation to God.

There are parts devoted to sex from both a male and female point of view, with essays written both to those who are married and those who are not. Far from being prudish, very practical reasons to abstain from sex before marriage are offered. This is not a step-by-step guide on how to avoid premarital sex and how to honor God by honoring your spouse through sex, but is a reason-by-reason guide explaining to someone why these things are important aspects of your life as a Christian, no matter your marital status.

The last part is entitled "History and Sex." Through letters from Martin Luther, we see the progression of his life, from one who was given the gift of abstinence to one who preached marriage to one who became a wonderful model of marriage to the world. The final essay examines the Puritans, who are often regarded as the most uptight prudes, though a closer look reveals that they were concerned with enjoying all of God's gifts fully in their proper context.

Taken in this light, it is not the puritans who were straying farther from God's purposes for sex and other aspects of life, but it is those who seek to either make an idol or a curse out of sex. The culprits are many and include both fornicators and many "model" members of the church as we know it. Sex is neither meant to be a means to itself nor is it to be universally condemned. Rather, let all things show the glory of God
