"At breakfast and at dinner, we can sharpen our own appetites  with a plentiful dose of the pornography of war, genocide, destitution and disease."  So says one of the first lines in introduction to Compassion Fatigue.  With that statement as simultaneously an opener and a teaser of the things to come, Professor Moeller takes the reader on a guided tour of the presentation and commodification of human tragedy and suffering.

Compassion Fatigue tells you the how and the why behind what makes the nightly news, and also reveals why a great many other things do not make the news.  While mostly a critique of US based media and journalism, it does reveal the gradual trend towards the 'One World' view of things and events that has come to typify reporting of any sort.

Without intending to do so, the book does much to demonstrate that the media, always locked in competition with other forms of 'programming' for our attention, has resorted to marketing information- current events, as a form of entertainment.  In place of in-depth, investigative journalism, we now have soundbites featuring 'talking heads', and the cuter or more obscene the personality (and increasingly both), the better.

Each of the so-called 'Four Horsemen'- war, disease, famine and death, are presented and profiled in turn, with detailed discussion about the mechanics behind their delivery to readers and viewers.  This book differs from most critiques of the media because it tells the narrative with the assistance of journalists themselves, in the words of the journalists.  

Many people in the media know what they are doing is not only questionable, but in some cases, flat out wrong.  However, marketability (how well something will go over with viewers) matters more than anything else.  Marketability makes for high ratings, and high ratings in turn makes for fat profits for the parent company.  Ergo, the trend towards to self-interested and self-centered journalism, and the tendency to feature celebrity involvement with current events.  The latter trend is most pernicious, because it is not necessarily the event, but what they think of it that matters most, as being able to get people's attention is the most important thing, not what's really going on in the world.  This in turn is both related to and feeds into the Body Count Syndrome, whereby each tragedy or documented depravity has to be bigger and obscence than the one before it, once again, to get our attention.

Although the book was a bit wearying at points (mostly because of the nine point font of the text), overall the content was top-notch.  I especially liked the final chapter, where Professor Moeller compared and contrasted the funerals of Princess Diana and Mother Theresa, both of whom died at the same time.  One was tabloid fodder, and the other dedicated her life to bringing a little joy to impoverished and suffering masses of humanity. Yet even in death, one managed to monopolize nearly all media attention for a month, while the other could barely get something less than a one page obituary (even here mostly devoted to how many dignitaries and personalities came to pay their final respects) in TIME magazine.  That one observation says a lot about not only the morals and values of the media, but even more about those of us viewers.

The motto of the media should be changed to reflect the sorry state of our times, and should now be: all the news that's (un)fit to print.
     




