"The Martians have arrived. Let the war begin." A catchphrase that could easily be employed for Herbert George Wells's most acclaimed science fiction "The War of the Worlds". This is a novel revolving around the highly improbable but simultaneously stunningly imaginative idea that the earth is invaded by organisms residing on Mars. Composed in a first person narrative,"The War of the Worlds" is a gripping saga of the millions of people's agony and loss of ease in the face of a confrontation that would change the world for good.

The story begins directly with the theme. In the last years of the 19th.century,in the most unassuming and delicate of all propositions,England witnesses the most surreal threat:ten bizzare cylinders all containing Martians fall near London. A wave of bitter agony,nameless fear and hopeless apprehension rocks the peole and as the Martians gradually come to terms with the Earth's gravitational strength,the police and the military of surrounding regions stolidly enarm themselves for an imminent war. The greatest of all human fallacies is perhaps the absurd universal acknowledgement that humans are the most accomplished creatures anywhere. This myth is firmly exploited in the book a the narrator---an ardent follower of astronomy and scholar of philosophy---perceives a plethora of harrowing incidents that compel him to shudder to his boots. 

The narrator's town of Maybury is completely demolished and so are the nearby towns of Woking,Weybridge,Shepperton and others. The narrator manages to traffic his wife to his cousin's place in Leatherhead in asumed safety but himself gets entangled hopelessly and helplessly in the boughs of life and death. In his maddening and desperate escape from the clutches of the more intelligent and powerful Martians,the narrator pairs up first with an artillerman and then with a curate. The latter is a lost soul whose faith in God and religion has broken in the wake of humanity's greatest ever calamity and the former is confident and visonery whose preferred modes of survival in a Martian dominated Earth is not that improbable,if at all naive. H.G.Wells's artistry lies in speedily building up to a great climax and in a plot so utterly novel and unique and symmetrical,this is a marvellous diusplay of wit,intelligence and clearness of structure.

"The War of the Worlds" on one level may appear to be a mere science fiction with vivid illustration of beings from outer space and the havoc they cause on our planet but the essence of the book transcends much beyond this demarcation. The weahness of mankind in the face of unknown,unheard and unthought catatrophes is firmly delineated in this landmark novel and Wells applies a very,very subtle satire on humans' grotesque complacency on teir own abilities. When the artilleryman admits,"we're down;we're beat" with "absolute conviction",the reader fathoms the author's surrender of "the greatest power in the world" to Fate. On a much higher level,"The War of the Worlds" is a massive comment on man's petty as well as magnanimous follies garbed in a dress of science fiction.

Composed in a sense of retrospection,the book does lose some of its charm from the very beginning that the narrator is alive and kicking. and the confinement of the sequence of events within a relatively small England territory narrows the scope of the novel and also trims down its volume. But even so,"The War of the Worlds" is a brilliant science fictin that leads the rteader on a journey on the back of an unfaithful wave that conpires to lead the world to the ultimate diasaster. H.G.Wells was a great visonery in the late 19th.century and it's no less remarkable achievement that this Englishman's great book is still being studied today and would be read for several decades to come. "The War of the Worlds" is a captivating and telling tale that would dazzle the reader by the shine of the writer's craftmanship.



