
This extraordinary compilation of honest objective research goes as far as any human team can go.  Paul Thompson and the Center for Cooperative Research are national--nay, global--treasures.

The timeline is most useful if read in conjunction with David  Griffin's two books, "The New Pearl Harbor" and also "The 9/11 Commission Report: Omissions and Distortions."

Here are the two bottom lines:

1)  There is, beyond reasonable doubt, a case to be made that elements of the U.S. Government were actively complicit with the terrorists, with the Bush family security company controlling the World Trade Center, with certain Wall Street firms, and with the Saudi Royal Family, in permitting 9/11 to happen as a pretext for war to secure energy resources in Afghanistan and Iraq.

2)  The consequent "investigations" are a mockery of the American people and disrespect our concept of justice.  There is no question but that the varied investigations have been both frustrated by an Administration in active denial mode, and by a Congress reluctant to confront the hands that feed them: the special interests.

It is clear to me that we need a People's Grand Jury that has access to the same level of technology that is represented by "Able Danger," that is to say, we must be able to do data mining on all of this information, and create public intelligence reports--and public counterintelligence reports--that connect the dots for the people.  We must do this before November 2006.

I believe that if such an endeavor is successful, it will demonstrate that the CIA and the FBI were both corrupt and incompetent prior to, during, and after 9/11; that the U.S. military was put on "stand down" to allow 9/11 to happen; and that Dick Cheney specifically, but the Bush Administration neo-cons generally, mis-led the President, Congress, the media, and the public with a web of lies intended to further their pre-conceived ideological fantasies.

We the People need to get our collective public intelligence enterprise going before November 2006.  America is close to a tipping point.  This author, and David Griffin, give us a slight taste of the power that can be restored to the public if we pay attention.  That makes them national heros
