My subject line rephrases the title of Malcolm Bradbury's travelguide spoof from the pre-Wall 80's, "Why Come to Slaka," itself a spin-off of his academic satire "Rates of Exchange" behind the Iron Curtain in what must have been a Warsaw Pact neighbor formerly known as Slaka, a post-89 casualty no doubt. While Slaka did not survive Balkanized glasnost, Molvania lives. 

As a repeat traveler to not only Prague but the bucolic countryside of Bohemia and the Hungarian puzsta plains near Romania, I confess this book triumphed. On every page, without fail, I chuckled--often more than once. And I rarely laugh out loud at movies, unless it's caused by unintentionally funny plaints or exertions by artistes. As other reviewers have noted, the Molvanian jokes do get stale--like much of the native cuisine I gather--on extended exposure. This traveller's guide is best savored while a few minutes on the toilet, waiting for your computer to boot, or while being put on hold on the phone--the closest counterpart to an inimitably Molvanian experience. 

My two pre-teen sons love its illustrations and captions; much of the fun is not only in the text but the deadpan earnestness of the layout, the boldfaced emphases, the maps and not least future offerings in the Jet Lag Series blurbed on the back pages. For the educated P.C. reader seeking novelty, this vademecum will surpass any common guide meant for the hoi polloi.

Any customer of Rough Guides/Lonely Planets will recognize not only their feel but their ambiance, as reassuring platitudes of the politically correct phrasing guaranteed to offend no culture mesh into the timid warnings for Westerners gingerly tiptoeing off the beaten track. The potted biographies of hapless or jaded contributors, the photo/text matches, the sober histories and the determinedly fair-minded rankings of accomodations, eateries, and attractions make for hilariously stereotypical reading, within which any armchair or experienced journeyer will ruefully recognize not only one's self but countless ranks of conniving clerks, finagling waitpersons, surly vendors, supercilious guides, gesturing drivers, and fearsomely (non?)communicative forays beyond phrasebooks. As the book instructs us, the departure fee from Molvania may be 3000 strubli, "but most visitors agree it's well worth the price." The entry fee's far cheaper and no less valuable an encounter, in the Jet Lag new but already time-honored tradition of "taking you places where you don't want to go."
