I just noticed the other review of this book, giving it one star and claiming it is not worth the effort; I wanted to add something to counterbalance that review.  First, the other reviewer is right that this is a very difficult book to read on your own, especially if you don't have a significant background in philosophy.  But that is not necessarily an objection to the book.  It would be silly for me to criticize a book of theoretical physics just because I didn't have the background necessary to understand it (and wasn't prepared or willing to learn from others who do).  In spite of the difficulty, this is a very important book.  In terms of scope and level of insight it is almost without parallel in the history of philosophy.  

The argument begins with an investigation of the experiential basis of objective knowledge, proceeds to show that our experience of objects is rooted in our understanding of ourselves and that this is inseparable from our relationships with other people.  The text aims to show the interconnections between a wide range of social and historical or institutional forms of knowing and acting, and concludes with a demonstration that thinking is inseparable from the intersubjective and socialized formations of reality it aims to describe (and that the history of these formations is essentially a history of the thinking that gave rise to them, i.e. that "thinking and being are one").  

On another note, it is worth celebrating the fact that Baillie's translation is now back in print and being published by Dover.  While not technically as accurate as the more popular Miller Translation of the Phenomenology of Spirit, the Baillie version is a nice complement that in many cases reads more clearly than Miller's and serves as a helpful tool to illuminate difficult or obscure passages (Note that in spite of the apparently different title, this is the same book as the Miller translation that Oxford publishes under the title "The Phenomenology of Spirit" -- just a different translation choice for the German word "Geist" = "Mind" or "Spirit").  There is, though, no getting around the fact that this book is in many places difficult and obsure, and becomes clear only with great difficulty.  The payoff for such effort is enormous.  (A helpful guide to reading Hegel, called "Reading Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit" by John Russon, was recently published.
