Sedaris' comedic memoirs are a playful and sometimes poignant addition to American humor.  Some of the negative reviewers here on Amazon feel as if the "stories" had no "plot," and I think this necessarily contributes to misunderstanding comments about the "self-indulgence" in Sedaris' work.  The problem is that Sedaris has not written a single "story" in Me Talk Pretty One Day.  All of the works in this collection are personal essays, and of course they are going to feel self-indulgent.  Fans of Sedaris enjoy reading about his quirks and self-deprecating humor, because they sometimes see glimmers of themselves in a turn of phrase and especially in a particularly clear and humorous observation.  It is very likely that if you do not see yourself in Sedaris' essays, you will not enjoy this collection.  In truth, the "plot" of Sedaris' life is not particularly interesting, and neither are the plots of most people's lives.  But comparing essays to stories is not fair since the sense of audience is not at all the same.

Perhaps the author's open homosexuality, acknowledgement of past drug usage, and crude humorous depictions are not appealing to some people.  I find his openness refreshing, and I would not mind having my life mean so much to so many people other than myself.

If you have never heard Sedaris read his own work (on NPR or at a reading), you are missing out on his appeal.  He has a nerdy, high-pitched, feminine voice, and he knows exactly how to use it to his advantage.  I recently saw him perform in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and he was certainly a pleasure to hear.  He's a better reader of his work than, say, Stephen King, whom I have also seen perform.

I can also understand readers who do not appreciate the subjects of the essays.  Sedaris sometimes pays far too much attention to the weirdness of the topic and less attention on the point of the essay.  But this is a far, far better group of essays than a previous Sedaris' collection, Barrel Fever, where he was still deciding if he wanted to write fiction or creative nonfiction.  Me Talk Pretty One Day is Sedaris' decision to play with creative nonfiction, namely, the genre of the American memoir.  The result is a funny book accessible to the vast majority of Americans
