"Forbidden Faith" serves up the usual introductory material regarding the history and legacy of early Christian Gnosticism.  Gnosticism and many of the related esoteric subjects like the Knights Templar, the Cathars, the Holy Grail, etc. are all the rage these days thanks to books like "Da Vinci Code" which have brought the subject of Gnosticism and its ancient texts to the mainstream.  

"Forbidden Faith" provides a background history to the origins of Gnosticism and its relationship and influences with other ancient belief systems.  It shows that Gnosticism borrowed heavily from the dualist beliefs that featured so prominently in Zoroastrianism in the centuries preceeding the birth of Christianity. Later, the Gnostics and their teachers created a much more mystical version of Christianity which was at odds with mainstream orthodoxy, ultimately leading to its followers being labeled heretics and persecuted unto death by rival Christian factions.  The Gnostics lost their battle for acceptance and virtually all of their history and religious texts were lost for nearly two thousand years, that is until the revolutionary discovery of the Nag Hammadi texts in 1945.  The book also traces the various Gnostic influences on other well-know heretical groups like the Cathars and the Bogomils who shared many fo the same ideas about a malevolent creator deity and the inherent evil of the corrupted material world in which we live.  Finally, the book highlights a number of Gnostic ideas that have seeped through into modern pop culture such as films like "The Matrix" and the works of sci-fi author Phillip K. Dick which often deal with the concept that the world is nothing more than an elaborate illusion created by malevolent forces to manipulate and control the protagonist. 

"Forbidden Faith" is a decent intro to the concept of Gnoisticsm and gives a good background on its origins, history, and legacy.  It also highlights some modern works that draw on Gnostic concepts or revolve around the history of this ancient group of believers who have finally, after some 2000 years, gotten their due. 
