I reviewed this book earlier, but wish to answer the author's question (also via review comment) about the mathematical errors I previously mentioned. I also wish to amend my prior review a bit. Now that a few months have passed since I read the book, I have found some of its ideas  very valuable and insightful. His comments on group decisions should be  required reading for anyone involved in such a task. As a voter choosing a  president, a committee member at a job trying to decide what course the  company should take, or even as an individual who 'just can't decide'  between several tempting choices, the principles of this book are vitally  important. However, one example of a math error follows. Professor Lewis  talks about the 'random walk' of stock prices on page 144 of the paperback  version in chapter 18. Perhaps I have misunderstood the concept, but as I  understand it, his premise is this: if there is a 50% chance that a stock  will go up by 10% of its current value, and a 50% chance that it will go  down by 10% of its current value, then &quot;If a stock happens to have  gone up 10 percent, the next 10 percent will be larger than if it had gone  down, and that adds up to gains in the long run. So a random walk of this  kind is... ...tilted toward higher averages.&quot; In the long run, I see a  random walk of this type tending toward zero. Imagine a simple example:  starting with a stock worth 100 dollars, the value then goes up 10%  followed by a decrease by 10%. The first change (increase) is by 100 x 0.10  = 10 dollars, so you are left with a 110 dollar stock. The second change  (decrease) is by 110 x 0.10 = 11 dollars, so you are left with a 99 dollar  stock, a definite trend down! What about the long term? It was a simple  matter to generate a spreadsheet with 5000 random steps up or down by 10%  of the value of the previous step, and graph the stock price versus number  of random moves. Push the recalculate key as much as you want, and you will  find that in almost every run of 5000 steps, you end up with a stock valued  very near zero. Take note, there are usually some interesting excursions in  the price, sometimes to quite high a level, but given enough steps, it  always comes back to near zero. Thus, this scenario is not biased toward an  increasing trend, but rather just the opposite. Nevertheless, read the  book
