Mystery readers vary in what they look for in their stories.  I love great mysteries that are hard to solve.  Ms. Linda Barnes has written a very fine one here that is the best mystery in the Carlotta Carlyle series.  

As the book opens, Carlotta finds that she is being tailed inexpertly by a well-dressed, middle-aged African American male.  Finally, she braces him . . . and he knows her name.  Gradually, it turns out he has a problem . . . but cannot decide whether or not to hire her.  It's hard for him to trust a white person.  It turns out that the man, Dr. Wilson Cheney, is a professor at Harvard and has a delicate problem.  He cannot decide whether or not to share the problem.

Eventually, Carlotta decides to help him after she finds out that he is a friend of her FBI lover, Leon Wells.  But she doesn't like the story he tells very much.  Cheney had had an affair with a student.  Although the student is now dead, Cheney had sent the student some incriminating letters.  Cheney fears that he would get the boot from both Harvard and his wife if the letters were made public.  A blackmailer has already sold him one of the letters for $1,000 . . . and wants $5,000 for a second one.  Cheney wants Carlotta to get those letters back.

In the course of her investigation, Carlotta learns that the good professor has not been very candid about the details of his relationship with the student or his own situation.  As she uncovers more facts, she wishes she had never heard of him.  But she continues on the case . . . which soon takes an unexpected turn after she tracks down the blackmailer.  From there, hold onto your seat, for the action takes many unexpected directions in a fine detection story.  

In the background, Carlotta's relationship with Leon has its ups and downs, her little sister (Paolina) decides to dress in a trampy way to go to a party, and Sam Gianelli keeps coming up in her yearnings.  Carlotta finds herself only partially able to handle all these issues. 

Much of the story occurs in and around Harvard Square in Cambridge.  Those who know the area will delight in the many details of the locale and people.  Fond memories will be evoked for those who love this area.

Harvard plays the role as heavy in many ways in the story, but not in any way that's unrealistic in my opinion.  So if you went there, stay cool.

After you finish this story, think about what your priorities should be to create a better life for your family, you and your community.


