It has been quite a long time; I have not enjoyed a book so much. The author Afshin Molavi, an Iranian-American interviews with 2000 Iranians and visits more than 20 cities. He writes about Iran's journey to democracy. 
Afshin portraits the Iranian society so well that when I was reading the book, I felt I am right there: with my family, friends, relatives and people that I know and adore. I found every one I knew there (all so real):  the local baker, the local butcher, taxi drives I have always enjoyed to chat with, my family, many nationalist Iranians, my reformist ex-classmates, my religious classmates, hard-line university mates. The author feels people and has sympathy with them. That is why he writes so well about them. 

I loved the style of his writing. He has poetic talent. I am not sure if he knows it or not! The book is so rich and also contains so much about Iranian history from Cyrus the Great to President Ahmadinejad. However, you do not feel that you are reading history because it is so fused with well designed interviews. I loved his choice of people. He covers almost every one, possessing almost every attitude. He visits so many places that are important to different people of different backgrounds. He writes about politics but he emphasizes on the human side of it. He is so fair and well-read. 

If you read this book, you will know so much about Iran (not all about it but so much). I really suggest this lovely book. The main problem however, in my view was that the author did not interview many educated women: say engineers, practitioners, artists. I am sure that they had so much to say. It is what is missing in the book. 

There were a few mistakes as well. The book gives this impression that Persian Empire was the first Iranian empire. But in fact Elamit Empire was the first. They ruled more than 2000 years before Persians. Iranian history is much longer than that. There was another mistake in the birth date of Zoroaster. He lived more than 2000 years before Mohammad not 1000 years. 
Well done to the author.
