I picked up Partner in Crime CDs from the local library.  I've seen Jance's name about for sometime (she takes up over a shelf at the local bookstore), and I'm trying to get into the habit of listening to books during my commute.  On that note, I checked out the CDs and gave them a whirl.  

To start with, the readings of Debra Monk and Cotter Smith were phenomenal.  They were able to bring me into the story and the views of the characters.  The tones of their voices depict the characters accurately.  Monk, reading the 3rd-person sections, handled the challenge of the changing tones from the subjective voice of Joanna Brady to the more objective description well, switching her tone from one to another easily, making each distinct, though on a page they would all be a part of the same flowing text.

The story itself was engaging.  The conflicts between characters were perhaps more engaging than the mystery.  In fact, the end of the mystery was well telegraphed, not leaving much surprise over who was behind the incident.  Even when the cause of the information leak on the witness protection program is traced back to the Washington State Attorney General's family, it did not provide a satisfying end to the mystery.  It was not disappointing.  The mystery was just not the exciting part of the book.

Perhaps the most engaging part of the story was the interactions between Beaumont and Brady.  As Beaumont's history with Anne Rowland Corley and how it relates to Coshise County plays out, a second plot behind the primary plays out.  I do not know if Jance was rehashing and building on story from previous Beaumont novels.  Either way, the development of his scarring and healing from his relationship with Anne (and his developing relationship with Joanne) kept my rapt attention.

I am sure I could have started with a better book to get a sample of Jance's work.  One that would give me either Brady or Beaumont, but for a mixture of two primary characters, I enjoyed it.  It felt balanced, and I would recommend it to others looking for something light and quick to ready. 
