This is my first book by McCullough, but I doubt it will be the last. His ability to breathe life into history is uncanny, as so many others here attest. This book covers the Revolutionary War from the declaration of war in October of 1775 through the battle at Princeton in January of 1777. It is a history of the military campaign, so much of the political maneuvering is non-existant, instead focusing on the Continental Army and its travails against the British Army, British Navy, and Mother Nature.

The main military engagements retold in vivid detail are the Boston Siege, the rout at New York and its subsequent retreat, the battle of Fort Washington, and the turning point of the war: the Battle of Trenton.

With reams of personal correspondence from Generals, statesmen, all the way down to the lowly footsoldier, McCullough brings a oft-omitted humanity to the events that took place. The suffering of the men, the frustration of George Washington, and the heroism of Nathaniel Greene and Henry Knox are all brought to life by their own words.

Drawing from a vast well of information, McCullough puts together a coherent story without seams. Each battle, march, retreat, and victory flow together so smoothly that the pages just fly by. It isn't hard to imagine the scenes depicted.

The pictures are also well chosen and are placed near enough to the pages that they augment. This really helps put faces to the names of General Howe, Nathaniel Greene, among others.

There are only two things that I felt left the book incomplete. The first is its total focus on the military aspect of the war. What were the members of the congress at Philadelphia up to? Besides the military engagements, what other sorts of political maneuvers were going on? As a history of George Washington and his army, the book is flawless, but as a history of 1776 it misses some key aspects. This omission can be argued that it would have been impossible to create a seamless narration if the author were required to bounce between GW and the congress and the English Parliament. I agree with that argument and don't fault the book for this little aspect of incompleteness.

The second fault of this book is that it stops right at the point where the story gets good! The war starts well with a great victory in Boston, but almost the entire remainder of the book tells the bitter story of failure after failure of George Washington to win a battle. Suddenly, in the last chapter Washington orders a brilliant attack on the Hessians at Trenton which succeeds and re-energizes the troops. A followup attack at Princeton does much to keep the ball rolling, but at this critical juncture, the book ends. Hungry for more, I can't wait to buy 1777
