I'm trying to think of how to delicately recommend against reading Joan Didion's latest (for which she won a National Book Award). Some disjointed notes:

Didion's 1960's-era writing is brilliant for laying out a particular style of analysis, but if it suffers from anything it is a remarkable self-absorption. Didion is obviously a depressive, and I can't imagine that 1960's-era Joan Didion is anyone I would want to spend time with. I enjoyed reading her books from then, but those books in all likelihood had an editor.

She moved into the 90's and clearly had come out of her funk -- in much the same way that I hear Woody Allen is out of therapy for the first time in 50 years after marrying Soon-Yi Previn. It's not clear that Woody -- for all his brilliance as a filmmaker -- would have been a fun guy to spend time with around the era of Annie Hall or Manhattan. The films repay endless viewings, in large part because the medium was well-chosen.

The Year Of Magical Thinking is Didion's memoir of her husband's death and daughter's hospitalization (which eventually became her daughter's death). Didion has become unmoored, understandably so, without the stabilizing presence of a husband who had been by her side for 40 years. She and John Gregory Dunne spent more time with each other even than most married couples did: they were both writers, and they both wrote at home. They were literally by each other's side 24 hours per day.

So I feel great sympathy for Didion. I'm sad to say, however, that great sympathy does not automatically translate into a great reading experience. The Year Of Magical Thinking is a great diary of Didion's glimpse into nothingness, but it's a diary that probably shouldn't have been published.

I say this with some hesitation, because I wonder whether Didion's book would be more valuable to me if I were suffering through great loss. It is probably highly valuable to widows and widowers, but even that isn't especially clear to me: in large part The Year Of Magical Thinking is about how little sense the world makes for her anymore: people die for no good reason, and there is no magic bullet to make us feel better. There is even no magic bullet to forget about our loved ones; Didion writes of being constantly pulled down into a "vortex" of thoughts about Dunne as soon as she starts to think about anything. One thing leads to another, and eventually she is destroyed by her own memories. There is no light at the end of the tunnel in this book, which isn't exactly giving away the ending: not only does Didion telegraph this, but her 60's-era writing style would suggest precisely this lack of sense or relief.

Perhaps it's just my own temperament, but I am much more drawn to Didion's impersonal writings -- those dealing with politics or something that we might call "theory." She's not theoretical except in a few scattered passages here and there (including some in Magical Thinking about the sociology and history of grieving), but what she's building -- in her own personal way -- is a particular way of looking at the world and picking apart its workings. She's good at it. I hope she returns to it. In the meantime, I think we can lay down the diary of her grieving and leave her to grieve; this book was more for her than it was for us
