This book has become so popular that terminology from this book has entered our popular culture (calling a woman a Venusian, for example). But my opinion is that this is well earned and hopefully a plus for helping men and women understand one another.

Some criticism leveled at this book is that it is too general, and to say "men are like this and women are like that" is a disservice to both, poppycock I say! It's refreshing to read a book that may help you understand the "general" psychological and linguistic make up of an "average" man or woman. I find this type of reading far more useful than all the cultural relativism that has bogged down our understanding of each other, where we seem afraid to look at groups as, just that, groups. Men are a group and thus have certain statistically average traits. This is supported in Gray's book by very revealing comments from his seminars.

The basic premise of this book is to help "decode" the opposite sex's langauge. E.g. when a man says "it's ok," it means "I want to figure this out on my own and I'd rather you didn't offer unsoliticed advice; that makes me feel you don't trust me." When a woman says "it's ok," it usually means "I am really upset and I need you to pull this conversation out of me. I am going to withdraw now because I feel you are not trying to understand me and I need to see you take action before I can begin to trust you and feel more loving again." 

I have found some of Gray's suggestions to be very helpful. When asking my BF "will you" instead of "can you," I find I am very satisfied with how things go when I ask "will," which gives him choice to say "yes or no," rather than "can" which many men interpret as being demanding and without choice. These subtle distinctions can be quite mind blowing when you first read about them, but start putting them into practice or observing how men and women typically communicate and the words they use, and you will find Gray's observations to be very helpful.

I am very happy I read this book. It was recommended to me by a friend of mine and I have gone on to recommend it to other friends. It really does serve as a sort of "pocket reference guide" to the opposite sex, and it is empowering and liberating to realize that we are linguistically completely different. When we better know how the other communicates, it is then that we can transcend our differences and begin to communicate truly as equals. I recommend this book without reservation.
