After having surgery and nearly losing my life I somehow managed to get my hands upon this book.(this was the second book I read after surgery)I became one with the main character in the story and as he recovered I recovered from a parallel point of view...looking back now at the time I read this book,almost two years ago,it does bring back memories,not just my painful memories,but the ones written in the story.At one point in time the pain in the book or more accurately Johnny's pain was the same as mine.That is how great the story is...it has that power over the  reader...

   Anyway,enough about me,the basic thing about the story is this,actually I would be lying if I said that,but for simplicity sake I have to put it this way...After having an accident  and recoving from a coma,Johnny was left with the ability to know things from a psychic's point of view.This story is not simply about that however,with the coma he has lost alot,though five years might not seem alot,but he did.The story deals with more than one characters and makes their information known well.This book has so many things about it that it is difficult for me to explain,for me to do that would mean for me to write down the whole book for you!But I leave you with this,The book is great,and I highly recommend it,the ending is sad though,but promising...at some times in the story I forgot about reality and started to live in the book,which seemed like reality to me.Putting things together in this book can remind us of how SK takes everyday situation and magnify them for us to see them for what they really are...This book is not too long,so you wouldn't get bored reading it,everything is perfect in this book,I have no complains...enjoy...Nigel.

I have specially included this "clipping" from the internet,to help you to understand the story a little better and to help you to make a good decision about buying the book...Here goes...
(Taken from wikipedia)

"The Dead Zone tells the story of Johnny Smith, a small-town high school teacher from Castle Rock, Maine who is tragically injured in a car accident that leaves him in a coma for almost five years. When he recovers, he is heartbroken to learn that the world has moved on without him. His girlfriend, Sarah, has married another man and has a child, his mother has succumbed to religious mania, and Johnny sustained brain damage. The damaged part of Johnny's brain, his "dead zone", is somehow connected to his capacity for visualization, as well as processing addresses and numbers. As though to compensate, his brain activated a long-dormant part of the mind relating to how humanity processes touch, resulting in the psychic ability to touch certain people and objects and experience visions of the past, present, and, most frequently, the future. Because of his "dead zone", parts of each vision remain unclear to Johnny, forcing him to figure out certain things as he goes along. The full extent of what he must do, or whatever tragedy he must try to avert, is seldom clear to Johnny.

Johnny uses his newfound ability to save a young girl's life, help Castle Rock sheriff George Bannerman identify serial killer Frank Dodd, and save several teenagers from a disastrous fire. Despite his heroism, Johnny considers his power a curse rather than a gift and is loathe to use it, longing for his old life. At a political rally, Johnny shakes hands with Greg Stillson, a popular but unconventional Congressional candidate from New Hampshire. Johnny sees a vision of Stillson being sworn in as President many years in the future, and of apocalyptic devastation so terrible and complete that he feels compelled to prevent Stillson's rise to power at any cost.

Johnny learns that he is dying of a brain tumor caused by his coma, and is forced to take desperate action. He tries to assassinate Stillson before his vision can come true, but the attempt fails. At the crucial moment, Johnny is unable to fire his gun; his in-built refusal to kill is too strong. When the bullets begin fly, Stillson attempts to use a small boy as a human shield, and a news photograph of the candidate cowering behind a child ruins his political career."

Thanks..........enjoy...............Nigel.
