        Sixteen year old Kit Tyler, has spent most of her life with her wealthy grandfather on his plantation on the sunny island of Barbados. She is treated like royalty and is richer than rich. Then, Kit's grandfather falls ill and dies, so Kit is forced to go live with the only family she has left, her Aunt Rachel and Uncle Matthew. Kit boards a ship on its way to her aunt and uncle in Connecticut and meets a number of people. A child named Prudence loses her doll in the water and while she is reaching after it, she falls in. Kit leaps in after her without a second thought, and brings her safely back to the boat. The people on the boat were not familiar with women swimming and therefore thought she was a witch. Pretty soon word spreads and half of the town suspects Kit of being a witch. Kit befriends an old Quaker woman in the forest named Hannah Tupper  who is thought as a witch herself. Kit must fight to make everyone believe they are not witches before they lose their lives. Overall, The Witch of Blackbird Pond was a very well-written and entertaining book.

	One reason why this book was interesting was because of the main character, Kit Tyler. She was feisty, outspoken, and she stood up for what she believed in without a care of what anyone else thought. For example, the town thought her bright colored dresses were a sign of rebellion and her uncle warned her to stop wearing them, but she wore them anyway. Kit also befriended a woman named Hannah Tupper who not only was called a witch, but she was a Quaker as well. At the end of the story Kit married a man named Nat, who was a sailor and apparently "not good enough for her."

	Another reason why this book was entertaining was the unintended humor. Something in this story that was really funny were the reasons the town accused Kit of being a witch. They thought she was a witch because she could swim, because of what she wore, and because of the things she said and did. There was a particular event in the story where Kit is teaching Prudence to read and write herself because Prudence's parents don't think Prudence is smart enough to be taught at a real school. Kit tells Prudence to continue writing her name over and over again in a book. Someone from the village finds this book and thinks Kit is trying to put a spell on Prudence because they think Kit is writing Prudence's name over and over again. Of course, Prudence defends Kit, but the people from the town think she is only protecting her because she is bewitched. Throughout the story similar events happen and they make even less sense.

	This book was also enjoyable because of the ending. Even though Kit's older nice cousin Mercy, dies, the story ended well. Nat, who Kit met through her friend Hannah, is a sailor and the son of the owner of the boat Kit arrived on. In the end of the story, Kit and Nat get married and Nat gets his own ship. As a joke because of all the events that happened during the story, Nat names his ship The Witch, and promises Kit he will take her anywhere. Hannah also accompanies them both on the ship. Kit's formerly grumpy uncle becomes nicer and more open since he lost his daughter, Mercy.

	The final reason this book was a good read was because of the variety of characters. The group of friends in this story are unique and unlikely to meet. The very unlikely group of friends in this story are Kit, Nat, Prudence, and Hannah. Kit is a rich and spoiled girl who is surprisingly nice. Nat is a normal sailor with a kind heart. Prudence is a little girl whose mother abuses her and thinks she is very stupid. Hannah is an odd old lady that lives in a small hut out in an abandoned meadow in the middle of a field with a black cat. Hannah Tupper is the person that really brought them all together. Even though these characters have some similar issues it seems odd that they became friends because they are from opposite worlds. All in all, this was a very good book and is good to read if you want to learn about the colony religions and also want to read a good book.
S.Brown  
  
