For years I have studied the latest in Biblical criticism, and all during that time, I have been uncomfortable with the critical "orthodoxy" which dates all non-Pauline New Testament writings as after 70 A.D. and rejects the traditional authorship of the majority of the books. It has always seemed to me that the conclusions reached were not based on unbiased research, but upon presuppositions which are based upon further presuppositions. Usually the most seemingly obvious conclusions were rejected simply because they contradicted some scholar's extremely convoluted assumptions.

Robinson's work is like a breath of fresh air in the stale world that is modern Biblical criticism. Instead of simply making the same assumptions that every other biblical scholar seems to make, he questions them all, and in doing so, comes to a startling conclusion: that every single New Testament work was written before 70 A.D. and the fall of Jerusalem (and that most were written by their traditionally-assigned authors). For those not familiar with modern Biblical criticism, this is almost the equivalent to telling ancients that the world is round, not flat.

Robinson carefully goes through all 27 books of the New Testament (plus four post-apostolic works) and gives his defense of his dating for each. Note that he doesn't simply use the fall of Jerusalem as his reason for dating each before 70 A.D.; this is simply a starting point. In many cases, his defense of an early date of a book is almost completely unrelated to their lack of mentioning Jerusalem's fall - he uses both internal and external evidence in many ways to defend early dates. 

The strength of his arguments vary from book to book. In some cases (such as the Epistle to the Hebrews and the book of Acts), his arguments are very strong. In other cases (such as II Peter), they are less so. But regardless of whether one agrees with his conclusions or not, reading this book will hopefully allow one to question the precarious conclusions reached by critical orthodoxy but which are proclaimed quite dogmatically by their defenders.




