Okay, the title is misleading in that reading this book doesn't mean you won't be lied to, it simple means that you will be able to notice when you have been lied to, and the book gives some great tools in learning how to redirect the conversation in order to get at the truth.

While I wouldn't use some of these techniques for just every day conversations with friends, loved ones and family memebers, if I worked in a position where investigations were a part of my job, such as police or detective work, internal affairs, human resources and employee disputes, etc, this information would be invaluable as a tool. Also, when faced with those tough family situations, this book does provide some insight into how to tell whether or not a person is being honest with you.

On that note, I used several of the techniques in this book on my almost teen aged son, who has recently been having a problem with lying, and it's quite interesting the results I've achieved with it. While he doesn't always 'fess up' in the end, I now have a pretty good handle on detecting when he's being honest and when he's really just pulling the wool over my eyes.

In business negotiations, contract negotiations, this book can really help with determining whether or not you have the upper hand or the competitor is just pulling a 'poker face' on you during the negotiations.

If there were a down side to the book, the one thing that I could state would be that it does seem to take a negative tone, in that it seems the author is stating that people in general cannot be trusted and that one should EXPECT others to lie. I don't necessarily believe this to be true, and often times, we create our own reality, and if we expect people to lie, we just might create that.

My advice, read the book - it has great information, however, do not automatically assume that just because someone exhibits some of these behavoirs listed in the book that the person is lying. This book, like any other how-to or self help book, is nothing more than a tool to assist you, and is not the do all and end all of how to live your life. Some people can be trusted. Not everyone will lie to you, but when someone does, this book helps you to determine how to get to the truth of the situation and be aware of the lies when they do happen. If the book is used as nothing more than a tool for its intended purpose, it's well worth the read
