This is a great intro book into the complex world of enzymes and how they interact with our entire system. 

I learned that obesity, diabetes, psoriasis, and many other ailments can be pre-empted--or at least postponed a long time--by a healthy supply and balance of enzymes. In some cases, a partial or full reversal is possible. In the same vein, enzyme balance aids digestion in such a way that controlling sugar is a natural side-effect. 

However, cooked/canned foods and aging combine to drastically deplete our enzyme reserves. Canned foods are devoid of enzymes and the more heat we apply to raw foods, the fewer the enzymes left. Fully cooked items usually have zero enzymes as well.

I do want to mention a bit about the research sources. On the one hand, more than half the cited studies are both powerful and highly convincing. On the other hand, little, if any research refers to reputable US-based research findings. I don't believe this suggests that the author's reasearch is flawed. Instead, it points out just how pig-headed the F.D.A. and the U.S. mainstream medical community still are regarding supplements in general and enzyme therapies in particular.

A few months ago, I began an organic approach to controlling sugar. By replacing refined sugar with plant-derived Stevia,* my fasting glucose plummeted from 119 to 104 in the first week and I effortlessly lost 14 pounds in four months. All this, with no other dietary/exercise adjustments. 

My gut tells me that both supplementary enzymes and an increase in raw foods form the perfect backup approach to substantially improved health, enhanced sugar control, and continued weight loss. This book makes a strong case that I might be right.

Because this book is concise and very well-edited, I got through it quickly, yet I yearn to reread it. I know that second and third readings will no doubt allow the material to fully sink in. Although this marks the first of potentially five or six books I intend to read on enzymes, I feel like I got off to a really great start.

* Until 1995, the F.D.A. banned Stevia and ordered regular searches and seizures of trucks suspected of carrying these plant products, imported from South America. Since 1995, the F.D.A. forbids manufacturers from labelling Stevia as a sweetener. Instead, it must be marketed as a "dietary supplement." As a result, a tiny fraction of one percent of U.S. sweetening is done with Stevia, while 70 percent of the world sweetens with Stevia. In Japan, that figure is 90 percent. Don't you just love the sugar and artificial sweetener lobbyists?

Several online retailers sell Stevia, but beware of its high concentration. A little goes a VERY long way. A 2-ounce bottle yeilds 225 drops and an 8-ounce beverage only needs one or two drops. By overusing, newbies ruin their drink or recipe and never use it again. Stevia really is vile if overdone. Then again, so is sugar and Aspartame.

In recipes calling for a cup of sugar, non-diabetics can use one teaspoon of sugar and sweeten the rest with Stevia. The trick is to add the Stevia drops at the very end. Slowly. If the entire recipe weighs in at 80 ounces, then add 10 drops and taste it. Then add two more drops at a time, until you reach the desired level of sweetness. Just Google Stevia to pull  up retailers or you can Google Stevia and F.D.A. to learn more about that story
