Description:

Miracle Seven is 197 pages written by Mr. John Peterson and Mrs. Wendie Pett and published by Bronze Bow Publishing (October, 2004).  Both John and Wendie model the presented exercises.  The Miracle Seven course features 56 exercises including the John McSweeney Tiger Moves (the "foundation" exercises of the book) and 49 more exercises for developing specific body parts.  The additional seven work-outs are as follows:  (1) chest, shoulders, and triceps, (2) arms, back, and neck, (3) Quads, glutes, hips, and calves, (4) abs and core, (5) arms, back, and the bridge, (6) legs, glutes, hips, and (7) additional strength exercises.

The book's emphasis is on natural bodybuilding through an exercise system called Transformetrics.   Transformetrics is an exercise system that incorporates Dynamic Visualized Resistance (DVR's), Dynamic Self Resistance (DSR's), calisthenics, and isometrics for the purpose of achieving overall good health and body sculpting.  The book also contains personal stories, information on nutrition, and deep breathing techniques. 

High Points:

It provides a step-by-step lesson approach that is easy to follow and understand.  It clearly lists the exercises for each body part and proscribes recommended sets and repetitions.  It features exercises for both men and women that can be done anywhere at anytime. 

The course has considerable content considering the variety of exercises (56) and the types of exercises (Calisthenics, Isometrics, Dynamic Visualized Resistance (DVR's), and Dynamic Self Resistance (DSR's)).  Exercises are accurately explained in text and accompanied by photo illustrations as to how to perform them correctly. 

Miracle Seven presents a chapter on nutrition organized into five food "lists" from best to worst.   There's also a section simply explaining the importance and misconceptions of protein, carbohydrates, and fat.  With these basic tools a person can design a healthy eating program.  

I believe that Miracle Seven could act as stand alone fitness manual for a person; purchase this course and a person would have enough exercise material to last a lifetime and be strong and fit by most standards.   

John Peterson and Wendie Pett are in really good shape and do a wonderful job in posing.  Both John and Wendie made excellent models and demonstrate the effectiveness of the system. 

Miracle Seven is a great book for people new to bodyweight conditioning, but this book would be useful to Olympic caliber athletes.

Miracle Seven makes a great travel companion as its dimensions are 8.8 x 6.0 x 0.5 inches, making it easy to pack.  Despite its small size it packs a lot of information; when I travel I take only Miracle Seven with me.

Suggested Improvements:

Additional isometric exercises should have been added for more variety.  I count a total of five presented in Miracle Seven, at least each of the seven sections should have listed one isometric exercise. 
 
Miracle Seven sometimes times uses too few pictures to demonstrate exercises.  

Score:

I gave this book a rating of five out of five stars. This book serves as an excellent complement to other bodyweight exercise books or other fitness programs.  I highly recommend its purchase.  It's a great addition to any fitness library
