The Enron Case has become synonymous with corporate greed, a breakdown of business ethics and destroyed organizational lives. Why another book on this well publicized event?  There is a simple and compelling answer. It is because this one is unique. 

This is the very best book on this topic in the marketplace. It is well written, well researched and is far more than just another report of what happened. Behaving Badly is written in such a way that the broader issues of business ethics and how they relate to organizational decision-making are presented. To differentiate this book further, Dr. Collins invites readers to place themselves in the role of decision maker. Enron is the backdrop, but the main focus of this superior book is to dissect the elements of the process that led up to the well-known and highly publicized outcomes. By doing so, Dr. Collins has taken the event out of the headlines and given us an incredible teaching/learning tool. 

As one who believes that Business Ethics is not an oxymoron, I find the focus of this book to be both informative and useful. It puts the spotlight on how decisions were made at Enron and provides the reader the opportunity to input their own views in a more enlightened, value driven way.  Readers who are organizational leaders will be able to test their own ethical framework. It's stimulating and thought provoking. 

This book is more than a great read. Corporate leadership in businesses of all sizes should buy Behaving Badly in bulk, distribute them to all of their employees and then gather to discuss the issues and decision points presented in each chapter. It is a fantastic tool to use in focusing attention on core values and their use in corporate decision-making. It would be an excellent catalyst to sharpen the commitment of all members of an organization to its best ethical inclinations. 

Training and development professionals should use Behaving Badly to generate discussion and engage in corporate self-discovery. What would you do? What would your colleagues do? How would your organizational culture react to your responses? Extremely important questions. You have to discuss the issues before they become universally understood, embraced and applied.

In addition, Behaving Badly should be used in college classrooms as supplemental reading. It is academically strong and well researched. Students can apply their understanding of ethics to an actual, very familiar case. 
.
Buy this book. Read it. Think about the issues. Discuss them with colleagues. Buy the book for your boss and leave it on her desk. It is a great opportunity for personal and professional growth and development.
