There seems to be some attempt here to pass this off as a nontraditional fantasy story because of its hero being a second son and its heroine being rebellious and cross, as well as a dragon being a protagonist.  No, there's nothing inherently unique about this story; it's the details that make it different and a good read.  Green fools us a bit by making us think this is a story about Prince Rupert's traditional quest--but no!  That only comprises one chapter, and the rest is actually a story about the Forest Kingdom's battle against legions of demons that are taking over the country, as well as including betrayals in the castle and royal politics.  

The politics were actually what really won me over about what was at first looking to be an uninteresting book.  Yes, it's funny, and by the end very exciting and has just the right amount of blood and swordfighting, as well as a mystery that is entwined throughout the whole thing.  But it's the politics that make it unique, because it really draws readers into the world of royal courts and how a medieval kingdom operates.  And because this book centers on only one kingdom, it doesn't become confusing but stays very manageable.  To avoid being boring, there's also plenty of adventure, and did I mention blood and swordfighting?  Green also did his research, because the kingdom and the swordfighting are both described in detail; magic or no, this is a believable world.  (Actually, even that's believable because the magic is leaving the world to be replaced by science; one can assume it would be entirely gone by modern times.)

As for criticism: all small things.  Princess Julia's infatuation with Rupert is contrary to her rebellious nature.  Though she does learn to live without him for a great deal of time, she still mopes about a bit too much for someone who knows very well how to be independent.  Actually, it seems like the supporting characters are all a little one-sided and archetypal, but characters aren't really the main focus of the book.  I don't like the fact that Green took an easy way out in ignoring the dragon for the majority of the book, and I think a little more character should have been given to the Demon Prince.  The pacing could have been better in the first chapter.  Lastly, I think there should be more suspects for who the final betrayer is; the culprit is a little obvious.
