This book surprised me with its Gothic horror and surprising plot twists toward the end. This novel, for all its horrible philosophy on life, captures in a poignant way a lost person's search for fulfillment. Despite his indulgent quest for all kinds of pleasure, Dorian is still unfulfilled and in one of the most captivating passages of the book turns to opium to forget life. His descent into the opium den is characterized as a descent into hell, a personal hell which he has brought himself to and in which everyone sees through him and is against him. 

Though I wasn't a big fan at the beginning, as the book progressed I think it may have become one of the most memorable books I've read. The theme of the book is sin - its putrefying effect both on the sinner and those around him. One of the best moments of the book and one that sticks vividly in my mind is towards the end, when Dorian, sick of seeing his portrait so mangled and distorted by the sins he has already committed, does a "good deed" in order to try to start to clean it up. He races up the stairs, unlocks the secret room where his portrait is hidden, throws back the cover, and is faced with the same ugliness that had been there before. Then he is faced with a horrible realization of truth: because he had done the "good deed" out of motivation of making his own portrait/soul look better, he hadn't done a "good deed" at all and was now so deep in his depravity that even what he calls love has been warped into an all-encompassing egotism.

Dorian's egotism gets progressively deeper. throughout the book. As Lord Henry says, It begins as innocent narcissism, but as it grows it begins to shunt blame for the sin of others and even motivates the good he does at the end of the book. Rather than his heavy sins bothering Dorian, "it was the living death of his own soul that troubled him" (226). His breakup with the young country girl was motivated more out of a desire to cleanse his portrait from its grime than any love for her, "for in hypocrisy he had worn the mask of goodness. For curiosity's sake he had tried the denial of self" (228). Being able to view his sin on the portrait in a sense made it more difficult to be selfless - "nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner. Conscience makes egotists of us all" (106) - and Dorian recognized this difficulty.

The idea of pleasure in Dorian Gray is portrayed as a goal to pursue but never reach. "A cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied" (84). Despite Dorian's pursuit of pleasure (and pleasure of the most exquisite kind) he ends us dissatisfied and empty, jaded to the idea of the fullness of life. He is encouraged on by the influence of Lord Henry, who gives advice such as: "The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it," (21) and "sin is the only real color-element left in modern life" (31). Dorian is quickly influenced by Lord Henry's philosophy, aping to everyone else Lord Henry's views and words and acting out on them by plunging into the pits of hedonism. 

The portrait itself is a mirror of Dorian's soul. It was a "visible emblem of conscience" (96). As Lord Henry's pleasure seeking philosophy takes hold in Dorian's mind, he sees that "eternal youth, infinite passion, pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins - he was to have all of these things. The portrait was to bear the burden of his shame; that was all" (109). However, in with a horrible fascination, Dorian "grew more and more enamored of his own beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul" (131) for "what the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on the canvas. They would mar its beauty, and eat away its grace. They would defile it, and make it shameful. And yet the thing would still live on. It would be always alive" (122). Even though "the leprosies of sin were slowly eating the thing away" (161) the portrait held on to its life of decay, just as Dorian held on to pleasure, refusing to be cleansed and beautiful again until Dorian's death. 


Quotes:
"She was free in her prison of passion" (65).
 "She tried to look picturesque, but only succeeded in being untidy" (49).
"There is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about" (4).  
"Discord is to be forced to be in harmony with others. One's own life - that is the important thing" (82).
"And how horribly real ugliness made things!" (128
