Former President Jimmy Carter has stated that he carefully and deliberately included the word "apartheid" in the title of his latest book. In retrospect, and in light of all the controversy this slim volume has produced, one wonders how it would have resonated with a more prosaic title such as "Peace in Palestine." Would the book have garnered the attention Carter desired without that searing, evocative, and controversial word emblazoned across its cover? After all, those three pregnant Afrikaan syllables conjure up one of the twentieth century's most brutal and racially repressive regimes. Juxtaposing them with "Palestine," as the title of Carter's book does, in effect accuses Israel of the same. Since "apartheid" remains such a strong word it should get used, particularly by a former President of the United States, with extreme caution. In chapter 16 of "Palestine Peace Not Apartheid" and in various media interviews Carter claims that within the occupied territories, but not in Israel proper, conditions of apartheid do in fact exist. Nonetheless, he qualifies this statement by saying that the desire of land, not racial prejudice, underlies this "Palestinian apartheid." What evidence does he have to make such a claim? Not only that, if things are indeed that bad how should readers react?

Those looking for a detailed argument within Carter's book must wait some 180 pages. The majority of the book weaves Palestinian and Israeli history with Carter's personal experiences and reflections. He begins in 1973, his first trip to Israel as a guest of Yitzak Rabin, and runs through August 2006 when Ehud Olmert became Israel's Prime Minister. Along the way Carter sprinkles his voluminous personal ruminations with history stretching back to Roman times. Some chapters have names such as "The Reagan Years" or "The George W. Bush Years." These chapters generally contain less about a particular president's mideast policy and more about Carter's reflections on the era. Regardless, the book soon becomes a chronological narrative of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Events such as the 1967 war, two intifadas, the Palestinian elections of 1996 and 2005, Israeli politics, the Oslo agreement, Bill Clinton's peace plan, the Geneva Initiative, and countless others fly by with little effort thanks to Carter's breezy prose. Readers unfamiliar with the conflict will learn some basic history. Two early chapters, "Key Players" and "Other Neighbors," provide some cursory background not only on Palestine and Israel, but also on Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia. The most personal chapter, "My Visits With Palestinians," relates Carter's conversations with Palestinians who claim to have, or at least to know someone who, suffered legal injustice, punitive bulldozings, jailings, or torture under Israeli rule. This chapter presages the controversy yet to come in the book's final two chapters, "The Wall as Prison" and "Summary." The word "apartheid" does not appear until the beginning of chapter sixteen with this passage: "Utilizing their political and military dominance, they [the Israeli government] are imposing a system of partial withdrawal, encapsulation, and apartheid on the Muslim and Christian citizens of the occupied territories." Carter then describes the vast network of walls, sensors, surveillance equipment, and trenches that surround Palestinians in the West Bank and the Gaza strip. These barriers make a Palestinian state "infeasible," he claims. He also  makes some strong statements, such as "In order to perpetuate the occupation, Israeli forces have deprived their unwilling subjects of basic human rights. No objective person could personally observe existing conditions in the West Bank and dispute these  statements." Then, in the final chapter: "A system of apartheid, with two peoples occupying the same land but completely separated from each other, with Israelis totally dominant and suppressing violence by depriving Palestinians of their basic human rights. This is the policy now being followed...." Carter then delineates the conditions he believes will lead to peace in the region. He also accuses the current United States administration of taking little to no action to foster peace between Israel and Palestine.

Carter tread on extremely controversial ground in this book. And he knew it. Israel remains one of the United States' only allies in the Middle East. Israel receives voluminous monetary and military aid from the United States, which has contributed to Israel's seemingly invincible armed forces. Debate or criticism, like that Carter presents in this book, seems nonexistent in the press or within Congress proper. Carter, also knowing this, had to walk a delicate line. Most likely this accounts for the sliht tension present throughout "Palestine Peace Not Apartheid." Most of the book discusses peace. Carter wants peace, he claims that the Israeli and Palestinian people want peace, and that the majority of Americans want to see a peaceful solution in the region. Fair enough. But the book's tension arises when the peace effort narrative gets overlaid with Carter's delineation of the treatment of the Palestinians. Not to mention the use of that explosive word "apartheid." So what was the goal of this book, laying out a plan for permanent peace in the region or exposing what Carter sees as a human rights atrocity? In effect, he attempted to weave both into the text. So what comes first, ending what Carter sees as an apartheid or finding conciliatory peace in the region? Can he have both at once? What takes precedence? Or are they one and the same? Given his arguments, one would think that this book would take a position of "liberate Palestine" in the same vein as arguments the Bush Adminstration presented to "liberate the Iraqi people." Obviously, the politics of the situation likely kept Carter from going there, assuming he wanted to. But if Carter truly believes an apartheid exists within the occupied territories, and he does seem to think so, the book then falls short of a response plan. Carter doesn't argue very strongly that the American government and the American people should demand an end to the alleged oppression. Instead, Carter argues for peace negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians. But under conditions of apartheid, as outlined in the book, would such a conciliatory approach work? If a Palestinian state now seems infeasible, as Carter argues, what would a peace plan look like? It all seems a little fuzzy. Nonetheless, Carter, like him or hate him, is an extremely intelligent man who knows the limitations of the situation. Some supporters of Carter have criticized this book for "unevenness" or "incoherence." These conclusions ignore the volatile politics that undergird this issue. For Carter, peace means the ending of what he sees as atrocities against the Palestinians. It also means, as outlined in the book, separate and autonomous Israeli and Palestinian states within the land once known as Canaan. Given the political tensions, this likely remains the only viable road to travel. Incoherence in a book about Israel and Palestine? The situation itself is somewhat incoherent.

Since its publication, this book has raised the ire of many people. The lawyer Alan Dershowitz in particular has accused the book of containing numerous inaccuracies. Carter refused to debate him publicly. Carter also found an unusual ally in Fox Network's Bill O'Reilly, who defended Carter against accusations of anti-semitism. Though the book has succeeded somewhat in widening the debate in the United States, it might also contribute to Carter's isolation on the issue. His use of the word apartheid," accurate or not, places him firmly on one side of the issue. Can the Israeli government ever see him as an objective arbiter again? One would think not, but time will tell. Already some inauspicious signs have appeared. Prominent Democrats have distanced themselves from the former President and The Carter Center saw numerous resignations in protest. Not good. Regardless, "Palestine Peace Not Apartheid" has stirred dormant waters. Whether or not it contributes to the ending of the seemingly intractable Israeli/Palestinian conflict remains an open question
