The Invisible Man


     If you enjoy reading fictional, thrilling, suspenseful novels then The Invisible Man is for you. This novel was written by H. G. Wells. 
     The book starts out on a day in February in a town called Iping, which is located in London. Cold weather blows in an outsider. This stranger decides to stay at a bed and breakfast called Coach and Horses. While there Mr. and Mrs. Hall, the owners of Coach and Horses, realize how odd this man in disguise really is. He is very curt and likes his privacy. When his luggage does not show up on time he flips out. Interestingly enough, all that is in the foreigner's bags are glass bottle and three books labeled Diary. 
     Later in the book unusual things start to happen. Money is missing and the burglar was heard taking it. Peculiarly, the burglar was not seen. Then, in chapter seven, Jaffers, Mr. Hall, and Wadgers see that the visitor is invisible. The Invisible Man also leaves his possessed three Diary books at Coach and Horses, so he has to come back to get it. This creates a ruckus. Mr. Thomas Marvel ends up helping the Invisible Man and being his "slave". Marvel ends up keeping the books. This infuriates the Invisible Man, so he threatens to kill Marvel. Because of this, Marvel ends up going to jail and having them lock him up in the greatest, sturdiest cell.  
     In chapter seventeen Dr. Kemp gets a visitor. The Invisible Man shares information with Kemp, how he became invisible, and that his real name is Griffin. Griffin tells Kemp about his plan for terror. The plan consists of robbery, murder, and terror. Dr. Kemp pretends to go along with Griffin and what he is saying. All of a sudden, Colonel Adye comes in to Kemp's house. Together, Adye and Kemp team up to stop Griffin. They try and trap him in a room but he tries to choke Kemp and escapes. 
Dr. Kemp later gets a letter from Griffin. This letter talks about how he is going to kill Kemp. Kemp is very distraught and worried. After that, Kemp's house gets apprehended by the Invisible Man. Kemp has nowhere to turn. He may be on the verge of death. Does Kemp get brutally murdered by Griffin? Does Griffin's plan of terror go into effect?  Read The Invisible Man by H. G. Wells and find out. 
