I have been researching Greenland for a project I am working on and heard about ice coring in Greenland a couple of months ago.  As I soon discovered, Greenland also plays quite an important role in the climate change discussion. I wanted to learn more.
This book served my purpose.

I found this book easy to read. It kept me engaged from the start  when I started to read it.  The author clearly and simply describes many of the methods used to analyze ice cores.  All while relating them to the bigger picture and also comparing the analysis of ice cores with other methods of analyzing past climate such as tree rings or layers of sediments in bodies of water - past or present.

I appreciated the simple analogies (and charts) throughout the book. While some readers may think they are too simplistic, I think they are perfect. I don't think the book is aimed at people already familiar with the subject but at the layman / general reader. That's what one of the quotes says on the back too. The author's sense of humor also shows in his writing. This is good.

While reading, there were some passages where I started to get confused. Thankfully, the author realized that it might come across that way and quickly moved to summarize the recently presented information. 

While the illustrations are good, improvements to the book might be more maps showing the locations he talks about. I only recall a map of Greenland. It wasn't a problem for me since I have studied Greenland intensively recently and I also have traveled widely and have a good knowledge of geography, but I suspect some might get confused.

The discussion on the conveyor belt shutting off could have been more succintly written and concluded better. While the author explains how a section of the world will cool if the conveyor is shut off (Europe), he doesn't talk much about how other parts will warm. It seems to be only in general terms. "The South Atlantic will be warmer."  "The monsoon will be affected in Asia." 

On the positive side - the author does note that we might/should be entering an ice age cycle, he does point out that our actions in warming the planet will easily be greater than the natural decline in temperature that would otherwise take place. Though I also wonder how a significant drop in global temperature 10-15F over a few years (Something which the ice core shows has happened in the past) would contrast with our actions in warming the planet. More hypothesis would be appreciated.

A good overall explanation of climate change including the conveyor belt is on the Union of Concerned Scientists website. 

I would have also appreciated a little more discussion on the ice coring efforts in Antarctica as the author has been there several times also. It is discussed and compared, but I feel more could have been written about it although Antarctica isn't the main focus of the book.

In summary, this is an excellent and accesible read on the science of ice coring and what it tells us about the past and why the Greenland ice cores are so important. The book stumbles a bit on discussing scenarios in the future based on the findings. Though I feel the author may have deliberately left this out
