Steinbeck's reflection on the story of Genesis in the Bible is both intricate and reflective. The story serves to illustrate common themes and issues embedded within the family structure and society as well. He is also able to make a point about the existence of free will in each individual's destiny. 

One of the aspects that make this book quintessentially American is the diversity of the characters' qualities, both good and bad. Lee is perhaps the most uniquely complex figure in the story-he is not only a role model and parental-type figure for both the Trask boys and Abra, but deeply philosophical about man's existence in life, and the struggles he faces. Lee really is the force that keeps the Trask family afloat when the strains of life hit several members, namely Adam. He is able to single-handedly pull Adam out of his disillusionment with Cathy. Lee is so poignant to the novel because he reaches others at a level that most fail to reach, and he helps Adam begin life anew with his two sons. Cathy represents one of the darkest and malicious characters in literature, and is seemingly at the opposite spectrum of Lee-she represents destructiveness, cruelty, thoughtlessness, and cynicism. Cathy (later Kate) is not only hurtful to others around her, but there are times when she literally shuns goodness when it is in close proximity to her. Even her physical condition, in which she hates to be around light, is representative of her sinister mentality about the world and her rejection of benevolence. Samuel Hamilton is depicted as a great man, a go-getter who captures the attention of his listeners because of his stories and his great vision for invention. Samuel is seemingly underappreciated by most in the novel with the exception of Lee and Adam, who cherish his knowledge. Samuel's impact on both Lee and Adam come much later in the story and after much reflection on their part. 

Another compelling aspect of Steinbeck's work is the definition and reflection on the idea of wealth. In many instances, "physical" wealth means very little. Will Hamilton is a character who believes in the principle of attaining wealth, but is very one-dimensional. Cal first sees wealth as an access to gain favor with his father, but then winds up rejecting this idea, and literally burning the money he had acquired. Kate gains a good deal of money from her brothel business, but it is money that brings neither happiness nor goodness to others. In direct contrast to these characters, Samuel Hamilton and Lee embody a "spiritual" wealth in the novel. Samuel, for instance, works hard, invents many things, and collect very few material rewards, yet his friendship is the most significant to others. Lee, similarly, is not wealthy, and comes to terms with his role as a giver rather than one who needs to acquire monetary gains. He seems to accept this role, and even rejects the one chance he does have to go to San Francisco and begin a business adventure. Steinbeck's larger message could be that the notion of "wealth" is more symbolic than physical. 

Perhaps the most consequential issue explored is that of free will-that we are all in charge of our own destinies despite our blood or our stations in life. This is revealed in Lee's explanation of the phrase "thou mayest", and the idea of choosing our own destination-good or evil-is illustrated most significantly in the character of Cal Trask-who wavers between choosing good and evil for much of the novel. 

This is a thoroughly powerful book, perhaps one of the forgotten treasures in literature. Steinbeck is able to draw you in, and although this novel is quite lengthy (over six hundred pages in length), it is a captivating story with complex ideas, characters and symbols.
