Chansky's book is a must for any true UNC or Duke fan, should be mandatory reading for the wine and cheesers and Kryzewskiville pretenders, and college hoops junkies will probably find it interesting as well.  Chansky does a great job with recounting the details of this historical rivalry, giving interesting behind-the-scenes storylines, in-game analysis, and a plethora of statistics at the end of each chapter.  Chansky begins the book with the 04-05 season and then in proceeding chapters goes decade by decade, finally concluding with 05.  He is a UNC alum so dookies will probably cry bias, but overall his book is balanced and touches on positives and negatives of the players and coaches of both universities.  

The only negatives I found were Chanksy writing in an amateurish manner, neglecting the fans that really make the rivalry, and omitting his personal opinions and reflections on the rivalry.  Chansky's writing style can sometimes be a little cliche-ridden, and boring-- what you may expect from a sports writer who did a book.  He also gets bogged down in the details and draws out game accounts that could be summarized in a much more succinct manner.  Chansky also glosses over the fans of the rivalry.  He has a couple of hazing anecdotes (e.g. Jordan's jersey being stolen from the Dean Dome), but doesn't get into all the juicy stuff like message board vitriol, crowd antics, and personal accounts from students and fans.  That would have been very fun.  And finally, Chansky, who has covered both teams for nearly three decades, doesn't lend much insight or opinion on the rivalry.  He pretty much states facts and recounts various anecdotes and controversies.  I would have loved to know what he thought about certain topics (e.g., Krykewski's perceived arrogance and phoniness, Dean's perceived God complex, etc.).  Oh well, I guess I have to wait for Will Blythe's book for that ("To Hate Like This Is to Be Happy Forever...").

All-and-all, Chansky's book is a very worthwhile read for those who follow either program or for true hoops lovers.  It may lack in panash and the plight of the fan, but it does an exemplary job in covering the rivalry history and mixing in some interesting stories along the way.
