The book follows on the vein of 'men are from mars, women venus', both excellent for men and relationships (not for dating). To be honest the authors admit the survey of womens results will be slanted to reflect their christian background. The points made are 'Excellent'... no really they are..... but his wife is a woman columnist writer(read feminist) and he goes on to bash 'porn' (he neglects that 51% of all books sold are romance novels...... the same as porn for males, how many women go to movies and drool over brad pitt etc?). If you're going to do a survey then give us the results of how women think without the christian lecturing.... isn't it about time men can honestly admit to women, that yes we enjoy looking at women, even naked women.... without having to be lectured we're bad...... author needs to explain and accept male behaviour as it is, not as how he wants it to be..... warts and all. Feminists had to do this for women!
Some of the points...
1. Males have one thought at a time....women have several at the same time and may have unresolved issues/argument pop into her head and bring up feelings that have nothing to do with the conversation right now.
2. We chase women and then stop because after marriage we think the chase is over we told her we love her, game over....women expect and need to be chased and told their loved like you did before marriage because they're always insecure about our love so tell them every day or at least often.
3. listen don't interrupt, women often solve their own problems while talking so don't offer solution, just listen and validate she has a right to her 'FEELINGS' .... concentrate on feelings, not the facts of the story/problem. Validate her right to feel down/bad don't fix issue.
4. Sex she wants it, but she doesn't have the horomones that make her crave it often. She needs to be slow started, where as males are ready to go.
I would give the book five stars if the husband wasn't such a pathetic beta male.... this is the type of guy who gets cheated on by his wife when in female words 'a real man' comes along. I'm sorry to women who read my review and think I'm a monster, but the way a book written 'For men only' is written in such an unabashed femine style it is really irritating.

