Above and beyond her wonderfully concise tales of global travel adventures and dozens of blind dates, I found this to be a business-school worthy manual on how to get what you most want in life while doing what you love.  Frustrated as a single approaching 40, Cox brilliantly conceived a focused plan to find her soul mate by employing her passions for, and skills at, travel, networking, planning, and interviewing. From circulating a "Soul mate job description" to assembling first-, second-,  and third-ring 'date wranglers' and organizing all the logistics of who, when, and where on her laptop, she illustrates precisely how to single-mindedly plan for conquest over one of life's major challenges.  So faithful was she to her network and her plan that even after meeting The One at date 55, she followed through with most of the rest of her program to meet men all over the world.  It is impossible not to get caught up in her quest and to share her joy at finding her soulmate.  For all its pleasures, two things did bother me.  Although her account does give many of the details of her travel planning, conspicuously missing was anything about the economic side.  As she was a travel industry pro, I assume Cox was able to wangle much of her air and land costs at a pittance, but I would have liked to have learned a bit about this as well as how she managed the long absence from work.  Secondly, her animated writing style will either charm you with its goofy corn and guilelessness --"I was proving myself to be superficial and shallow..."/ "...his mezmerizing turquoise eyes and a pompadour as high and solid as a well-baked loaf ..."/"complicated emotions played across his face: sadness, indecision,desire? I was unsure, but he held my gaze intensely" -- or leave you gagging from Cox's infatuation with and resort to hundreds of inanely tortured metaphors and similes -- "...a caffeine-withdrawal meltdown was barrelling irrevocably toward the surface, like a great white shark with a stomach unexpectedly full of cork...." / "I looked up instinctively as they (pro basketball players) conversed in the air a foot above my head, and it was like gazing up into the muscular branches of a forest of bench-pressing oak trees..." / "... a mosquito bite the size of a pebble big enough to skim clear across the English Channel..."   
