The experience of reading Lord Jim makes it clear that the writing of the novel was interrupted. It was begun in the summer of 1898 and then taken up again after Joseph Conrad had written Heart of Darkness. The relationship of Lord Jim with Heart of Darkness is very close. 

The first part of the novel is concerned with the episode on board the Patna in which Jim?s failure to meet an emergency with courage marks him psychologicaly and provokes his desertion from the community of colonists. The second part is less coherently constructed, and is concerned with the adventures of Jim in the remote jungle of Patusan, where he is regarded as Lord Jim among the natives. The story is thus deeply concerned with the question of Jim?s problematic rehabilitation after his moral breach with the community. On the other hand, the novel is a pioneering work of Modernism and as such it traces the ideological and existential origins of the new writing techniques.

Edward Said said that the vision of Joseph Conrad was "totally dominated by the Atlantic West". As such, is he writing technique also to be labelled as Western? Modernism?s concern to address different voices and include extraneous narratives would circumscribe this view. 

Early on in the novel we are confronted with different notions of spiritual salvation. The Arab pilgrims on board the Patna are said to have left their homes following "an exacting belief". But Jim is motivated by a sensualist, modernistic interpretation of the world?s hieroglyph. When he meets a storm, he feels that the elements are directed at him. The group of people who the narrative addresses is generally supposed to share Jim?s modernistic conceptions: "in our own hearts we trust for our salvation in the men that surround us, in the sights that fill our eyes, in the sounds that fill our ears, a and in the air that fills our lungs." Thus the narrative presupposes a community of modern, Western readers, untroubled by a fixed, Eastern religious conscience. The modernistic mindset of the novel seems to have been in its origins a broadly Western affair.

Captain Marlow meets Jim a month or so after the affair on board the ship and sympathises with his case. Marlow is moved by Jim?s apparent English steadfastness, his "faith invulnerable to the strength of facts, to the contagion of example, to the solicitation of ideas". How can such a perfect constitution have been wayled? What is it in Jim that announced a breaking up in the ideology of the superior white man? In order to discover the reason why this has happened to Jim, Marlow must learn to read the hidden logic behind the apparent delirium of facts. His efforts to narrate Jim?s problematic failure and rehabilitation will go to create a new narrative technique, which is going to be characerised by its slow motion and by the slavery to impressions.

The interest of the novel, like at parts the interest of the Court Enquiry, is thus deeply psychological. What matters is "the expectation of some essential disclosure as to the strength, the power, the horror, of human emotions". The white man is troubled by the necessity to confront the intolerable representation of some unknown force - perhaps embodied in the colonial subject, perhaps alighting in the utmost recesses of his own soul - which might explain that pervading self-doubt casting a ray of darkness on his glorious self-reflection. It is the beginning of the end of the innocent stage of the imperial business. And the way from innocence leads to "the horror" that will be central to Heart of Darkness too.

The enterprise of the empire can only be sustained on the strictest moral grounds, to be specially observed by the British and American colonialists. "We aren?t an organised body of men," says Captain Brierly, "and the only thing that holds us together is just the name for that kind of decency". Without decency, confidence on the good purpose of the empire is lost. 

The breaking up of the white man?s ideology of empire is shown through Conrad?s ironic technique, which can be handled only from a consistently Western, unified point of view. It is for this reason that Conrad does not include different cultural visions in his writing, his technique does not need them to succeed.

The confrontation of the dark recesses of the imperial experience threatens to disrupt established cognitive notions of truth and falsehood, of right and wrong. Jim?s moral rupture is like the crack that threatens to disestablish the whole. The "white man?s burden" is therefore touched by the tragic. Jim?s passivity at a time when heroic action was called for has nothing short of the malediction in it. Is the Empire... to be cursed? Is Jim really guilty, or has he simply been haunted?

Jim?s search for rehabilitation requires no expiation to speak of. Can Jim fairly be judged as a moral agent when he has felt himself to be deprived of his will entirely throughout the affair? The whole episode acquires for him the character of low comedy, of a devilish farce. In Marlow?s retelling: "he had preserved through it all a strange illusion of passiveness, as though he had not acted but had suffered himself to be handled by the infernal powers who had selected him for the victim of their practical joke."

His story is ultimately one of failure, since for man?s life to become utterance, his life must be part of a community. It does not matter what degree or honour you fulfil, the important thing is to belong. Marlow?s series of confidences, to the reader and to other characters, on the nature of honour, courage, and regret, eventually disclose that Jim?s soul is ultimately haunted by the riddle of being: "A man that is born falls into a dream like a man who falls into the sea". 





 
