As another reviewer of this book on Amazon has pointed out the title of this book is somewhat misleading. This is not a general consideration of the subject of how we regard the pain of others. And it is too not even a comprehensive treatment of how we regard the pain of strangers when that is represented to us through the media. It is rather a kind of historical consideration of the subject of representation of war through visual images, and how that has effected its intended  audience.
Sontag begins with the horrifying representations of Goya, considers Civil War photography, images of the two great wars, including images of the Holocaust, representations of 9/11 and of recent horrors in Kossovo, and what her publisher refers to as Israel/Palestine. 
As another Amazon reviewer has pointed out she does not really make a coherent strong argument. Her essay is a loose discursive one, written in her ordinary complex, awkward and difficult to understand style. 
One important insight she has is that 'photographs' will always have a place for us because we can contemplate and remember them in the way we cannot the flow of images in video or film. The startling images that remain in mind of horrors of war are those given in photographs. And she too points out that it is the content of these photographs which is important, and that often the work done by amateurs who catch a vital moment is more memorable than that of professionals. This was she writes the case with many Holocaust photos, and also with the photos from 9/11.
Sontag wrote this book while she herself was going through the pain of terminal cancer. And for me this gives her absorption with the subject a certain authenticity.
Nonetheless I believe that she has only scratched the surface of the questions raised about the 'public presentation of the horrors of war'. The guilt over being entertained by the nightly news horror is one question i.e. whether 'looking at such photos' is not in a certain way a kind of 'moral failing'. But of course this when the 'turning away' can also be a moral fault.
But this leads to what I believe is a major error in the whole enterprise, the whole laying out of the subject. Photos alone , video alone cannot give enough background and context to make the reality wholly understandable. To see something horrible and be repelled by it( a little girl running naked with her hands up as in the famous Vietnam war photo, or emaciated bodies lying on bunk beds unable to move- as in photos of the liberation of concentration camps) is humane, and moral. But to really understand those realities, and all the realities which she is writing about a person has to know what is going on in a deeper way.
Here I come to another kind of criticism of Sontag, one which relates to her work in general. Her extreme - left often anti-American views have always repelled me. In this book she talks about how militants from both sides of the Israeli/ Arab Palestinian conflict look at their own victims. She picks as the Israeli victim one blown up in a suicide - bombing in Sbarro pizza in Jerusalem. And she picks as the Palestinian victim a child hit by an Israeli tank shell. These examples and her presentation of them it seems to me expose a basic misperception and immorality in her whole enterprise. The Israeli victims in Sbarro including four members of one family were civilians who were deliberately targeted. A photo of their scattered remains would no doubt be horrifying.  A Palestinian child torn apart by a tank shell would present a no less horrifying picture. And it would fill every decent person with revulsion. But the fact is nonetheless that Israeli tankists do not fire deliberately at civilians. In fact they have orders to do everything possible to avoid civilian casualties. This is in complete opposition to the policy of Palestinian terror groups who aim to murder and maim. 
Being horrified by the images does not enable us to understand fully the reality. 
Again the main point is that a more comprehensively truthful approach to the visual representations would have to closely relate them to literary presentations. 
Finally. Sontag makes the point that the horrors of war cannot be understood really by those who have never really been in such wars. I believe that she is probably right. But that does not mean that those who have been exposed automatically have higher moral judgment. 
As I understand it Sontag throughout her writing life, raised real questions but provided most often inadequate and even morally mistaken answers. 

 

