1.	The basis of your business decision-making shift from guessing to knowing.
2.	The value proposition you offer to your customers shifts from a mismatch to a perfect fit
3.	Information flow with your company shift from lag time to real time.
4.	Your customer service model shifts from supplier service to customer self-service
5.	The use of your employees' time shifts from predominantly low value-added to maximum talent leverage
6.	Your processes shift from a focus on fixing errors to preventing them
7.	Your productivity growth pattern shifts from a norm of 10 percent improvement to 10X productivity improvement
8.	Your organization shifts from collection of separate silos to integrated system in which information, ideas, and solutions are shared.

Authors Adrian Slywotzky and David Morrison illustrate these DBD principles in case studies of Dell, Cemex, Charles Schwab, Cisco, GE, and IBM.  "It's important to have hands-on, high-touch service available when needed.  But, by digitizing services that don't require in-person assistance, the overall cost structure is improved, customers receive better service, and profitability is greater."  "True productivity is measured by the needs and desires of customers rather than a company's business objectives." "10X productivity is important not just because it can and will help toward meeting the next quarter's earnings forecast, but because it releases money and frees it for investment in growth."  "In mapping out your digitization strategy, start by asking: Which of the three areas-capital, cost, or cycle time- is most crucial to the economics of my business and my customer's businesses?"


In the mid 1990s Charles Schwab dominated the discount brokerage business.  Schwab enjoyed stellar growth and was one of the most sure-fired innovators in the financial sector.  In 1992, Schwab launched OneSource.    In the same year, E-Trade offered a flat $14.95 commission on stock trades.  Schwab's average commission was around $60 and profits were excellent.   Customers wanted control over their information, processes, and services to make investments.  Should Schwab go online and be exposed to a 75 percent reducing in commissions.  Schwab had to decide between two paths: risking the whole company by moving to an online service online or keeping the traditional brokerage model.   Schwab was willing to innovate, reinvent their products and services, and respond to it customers.  Dan Leeman, Head of Strategy explained, "We created eSchwab because we wanted to learn.  But we did not want to risk the whole company."   eSchwab commission was $29.95 more than double E-trade.  Schwab position was not price differentiation; rather, it was a response to customer's demands for speed, convenience, and ubiquity of on-line investing-value added investing.   The online services were separate from the rich services provided by the traditional brick and mortar high-touch services.  Customers were telling Schwab that reintegrating eSchwab into the traditional brokerage division was the right way to go.  The result would be commission compression.  Schwab bit the bullet and announce reintegration and a commission structure of $29.95 up to 1,000 shares, online or off.  1998, at the Golden Gate Bridge, David Pottruck handed out jackets with the slogan "Crossing the Chasm" embroidered on the back and then led them on a walk across San Francisco Bay.  The dropping commission income caused Schwabs stock market capitalization to plummet, falling $2 billion.  Volume began picking up and Investors recognized the volume increase and reward Schwab by investing again in the company.  Schwab's market value grew to $23 billion more than double the summer low.  One investor said, "I like the fact that Schwab has bricks-and-mortar building.  I think it's the skepticism I have about the start-up.  I'm nervous because all their money is electronic... It's worth the price to have the brand name and reliability of Good Ol' Schwab."  "Where a digital presence offers speed and convenience, the physical presence offers a basis for building trust.  In many businesses, customers insist on both."

DBD will cause company cultures to change and cause digital to spread to every division, department, and business process.  How fast is your business?  Can you make quick decisions?  How rapidly can you act when a decision is made?  Being fast is a matter of mindset.   But being fast but wrong gains you nothing; DBD goal is marketing and customer service that is dead-on accurate rather than more-or-less in the ballpark.   Rapid change has a simple logic, when the world changes rapidly, you must change more rapidly.  Change is a function of flexibility and flexibility is the product of good design.   The Digital model allows for morphable changes in a short period of time.  Factories must be reconfigured, rebuilt, or sold.  All these steps take time, cost money, and distract attention from moves that can benefit customers directly.  Therefore it is crucial not be saddle with resources that are not central to the business model: case in point,  B&N (real-estate building verse Amazon online warehousing), the emerging eBook and rapid electronic publishing and high speed low cost printing.

"Business with the insight and courage to redesign themselves as needed to achieve and sustain place in the minds of customers as well as growing share of sales and profits...businesses that know how to take advantage of both traditional and digital options to create and occupy unique and continually evolving position in a rapidly changing economic universe."
