If you are a revolutionary, a radical or merely a liberal activist you must come to terms with the theory outlined in the Communist Manifesto. Today's activists are obviously not the first political activists to face this challenge. Radicals, revolutionaries and liberals have had to come to terms with the Manifesto at least since 1848 when it was first published and that same necessity; perhaps surprisingly to some given the changes in the political landscape since then, is true today. Why surprisingly? On the face of it given the political situation today it would appear somewhat absurd to make such a claim about the necessity of coming to terms with the overriding need for the revolutionary overturn of the capitalist order outlined in the Manifesto. With the collapses of the Soviet Union and the Soviet-influenced Eastern European states about fifteen years ago, which were supposedly based on Marxist concepts, one would think that Marxism was a dead letter. But hear me out. Even the less far-sighted apologists for the international capitalist order are now worrying about the increasing gap between rich and poor, not only between the so-called first and third worlds but also within the imperialist metropolitican centers themselves. Nowhere is that more evident that in the United States where the gap has dramatically increased over the last thirty years. Thus, despite the carping of the `death of communism' theorists after the decisive capitulation of international Stalinism an objective criterion exists today to put the question of class struggle and of the validity of a materialist concept of history back on the front burner.

 Whether one agrees with the Marxian premises about the need for revolution and for a dialectical materialist conception of the workings of society or not one still must, if for no other reason that to be smart about the doings of the world, confront the problem of how to break the stalemate over where human history is heading. Capitalist globalization has clearly demonstrated only that the race to the bottom implicit in the inner workings of capitalism is continuing at full throttle. And it ain't pretty for the peoples of the world. Experience has shown that those who are not armed with a materialist concept of history, that is, the ability to see society in all its workings and contradictions cannot understand the world. All other conceptual frameworks lead to idealism and utopian concepts of social change, at best. One may ultimately answer the questions posed by the Manifesto in the negative but that alternative leaves one politically defenseless in the current one-sided international class war.

 So what is the shouting over Marxism, pro and con, all about? In the middle of the 19th century, especially in Europe, it was not at all clear where the vast expansion and acceleration of industrial society was heading. All one could observe was that traditional society was being rapidly disrupted and people were being uprooted, mainly from the land, far faster than at any time in previous history. For the most part, political people at that time reacted to the rise of capitalism with small plans to create utopian societies off on the side of society or with plans to smash the industrial machinery in order to maintain an artisan culture (the various forms of Ludditism). Into this chaos a young Karl Marx stepped in and along with his associate and co-thinker Freidrich Engel gave a, let us face it, grandiose plan for changing all of society based on the revolutionary overthrow of existing society. Marx thus did not based himself on creation of some isolated utopian community but by taking the then current level of international capitalist society as a starting point and expanding from there. Now that was then and today still is a radical notion. Marx, however, did not just come to those conclusions out of the blue. As an intellectual (and frustrated academian) he took the best of German philosophy (basically from Hegel then the rage of German philosophical academia), French political thought and revolutionary tradition especially the Great French Revolution of the late 1700'and English political economy. In short, Marx took the various strands of Enlightenment thought and action and grafted those developments onto a theory, not fully formed at the time, of how the proletariat was to arise and take over the reins of society for the benefit of all of society and end class struggle as the motor force of history. Unfortunately, given the rocky road of socialist thought and action over the last 150 years, we are, impatiently, still waiting for that new day.

In recently re-reading the Manifesto this writer was struck by how much of the material in it related, taking into account the technological changes and advances in international capitalist development since that time, to today's political crisis of humankind. Some of the predictions and some of the theory there are off, no question, particularly on the question of the relative stability of capitalism, the question of the relative impoverishment of the masses, the power of the nation-state and nationalism and the telescoping of capitalist development but the thrust of the material present clearly speaks to us to day. Maybe that is why the more far-sighted bourgeois commentators are nervous at the reappearance of Marxism in Western society as a small but serious current in the international labor movement. Militant leftists can now argue- Stalinism never again, to their slogan of - socialist revolution, never again. 

Although as a historical document one should read the Manifesto with those limitations and the need for updating in mind the reader should nevertheless note the seemingly archaic third section of the document where Marx polemicizes against the leftist political opponents of the his time. While the names of the organizations of that time have faded away into historical mist the political tendencies he argued against seem to very much analogous to various tendencies today. In fact, in my youth I probably argued in favor of every one of those tendencies before I was finally won over to the Marxian worldview. I suggest that not only does humankind set itself the social tasks that it can reasonably perform but also that when those tasks are not performed there is a tendency to revert to earlier, seemingly defeated ideas, of social change. Thus the old pre-Marxian conceptions of societal change have to be fought out again by this generation of militant leftists. That said, militant leftists should read and reread this document. It is literarily the foundation document of the modern communist movement. One can still learn from it.     

Revised September 26, 2006







