Charles Darwin: discoverer of evolution (more or less), civilizational icon, elderly white-bearded guy, and as it happens, quite the world traveler. Many of us recall Darwin's study of finches on the Galapagos Islands, and how the shape of their beak corresponds to the food supply on their particular island. This was, in fact, part of a five year long journey around the world that Darwin took as a young man fresh out of university. In these pages, The Voyage of the Beagle, Darwin put to paper his observations and speculations from that journey.

The Beagle itself was a smallish naval ship on a mission to perform various mappings and explorations. Darwin was on board, in part, to keep the captain company, something a man under the captain's direct command could not properly do. More importantly, Darwin went as a naturalist, fully intending to study the natural world as he encountered it. One can thus categorize his writings as covering three major themes. Zoology and to a lesser extent botany are what he is best known for, and Darwin describes the seemingly endless variety of life forms he came across. His studies were more than casual and he gives the reader some very detailed descriptions of his findings. Even well before the Galapagos Darwin made extensive commentary on how a life form interacts with its immediate environment. Clearly, we can see in retrospect that his mind was attuned to the question that would later provide him with greater name-recognition than most men that ever live. Closely related to his biological work are his geological observations. He spends as much time pondering the mountains and sea floor and cliffs and rivers as he does birds and lizards. Darwin was an enthusiastic follower of the latest findings in Geology, and was reading Charles Lyell's Principals of Geology en-route. From the start we see a smooth transition between his geological observations on the terrain and his biological observations. Darwin's key goal throughout is to understand how a living creature came to be born and survive in the place that it does. Even without this interplay, however, he treats geological observations as worthy and illustrative of the varied aspects of our view of the Earth. Finally, Darwin intersperses all this with nearly as many descriptions of the people and cultures as he does for flora or geology. Darwin set off on foot at nearly every stop the Beagle made, and was eager to see new things and meet new people. His conclusions range from the enthusiastic to the repulsive. 

In Darwin's non-PC world, he had no hesitation in describing things as he saw them, and in his views on culture we find the most editorializing within these pages. He is, clearly, an enthusiastic supporter of civilization and humane qualities. This need not mean Western assimilation, though that doesn't hurt in his appraisal, but it does mean showing some sign of mental sophistication. Thus, the reader finds that his kindly descriptions of the Tahitians or Indians differ considerably from those of the South American Fuegians or Australian Aborigines. Though his tone may seem out of sorts to readers today, he is abundantly clear about his specific reasons for saying the things he does. 

Darwin's two-year journey on the Beagle turned into a five-year journey in actuality. Four of those years, and all but the last hundred pages here, were spent in South America alone. Throughout he employs a somewhat detached style of presentation as was typical of the age. There are few of what we would consider lively passages. But he is ever-present as an observer of the surroundings. As fitting an age unaccustomed to extensive word of the world around it, his original readers must have found his vivid descriptions (and occasional drawings) breathtaking to consider. It was a different time in Darwin's day, and one wonders if the receptive people of England truly appreciated that they were holding the raw material from which one day would flow the most astounding scientific theory of that century
