'Historians have sometimes revealed themselves to be confused about the distinction between structuralism and poststructuralism' (Chap.1).

They're not the only ones. After reading this book you may find yourself less confused, but other questions may occur to you, such as: why did French theory ring such a deafening dinner-bell in the soft underbelly of English-speaking academia? What became of old King Positivism and trusty Sir Karl? Were they slain by the false temptress Mamzelle la Key to Everything while the jester Incredulity to Metanarratives pulled faces, or are they only biding their time? Who knows?

The book starts with a helpful sketch of advanced thinking in 60s and 70s Paris. Foucault looms large (he gets a whole chapter to himself later and very good it is, better than nitrazepam). We have a brief guided tour of structuralism, two schools of poststructuralism, six varieties of postmodernity/ism, semiotics of course, and neo-Marxist critical theory. This clarified several points for me, which is several more than trying to read the originals ever did. It may help you too.

More than half the book is taken up with cautionary tales of theory-driven historiography. We hear from the semiotician Todorov on the downfall of the Aztecs, which was caused mainly by their shortcomings in semiotics; and Australian Paul Carter who, inspired by the unlikely duo Derrida and Einstein, pioneered 'spatial history' to replace (or retime) old-fashioned 'temporal history' ('A brilliant book': Susan Sontag). If that hit the spot, I can go one better: how about 'curved spacetime history'? Darn, Baudrillard already did it.

Some readers deny that academic history is threatened by relativism and anti-realism to the extent that Windschuttle believes; or if so, that there is any harm in it. I was trained as a scientist not a philosopher, so forgive me for being blunt. Some people think they know the answers before they ask the questions. There is something of this in all of us but for three centuries or more it was seldom considered a scholarly virtue. In the new dispensation it is. Facts are now at best pale reflections of 'theory' - recent advances in philosophy blah-blah-blah, stir in the buzzwords, make obeisance to the cult idols, and the answer you first thought of is right (provided, of course, it's left). The general educated public is never going to swallow such foolery; it takes years of study. The trouble is that these people make so much noise they give the whole of the academy a bad name. Well folks, Sokal, Gross, Levitt, Windschuttle, even Kimball are academics, and some of them are left, but they are not out to lunch.

Don't be put off, as I was for a time, by the catchpenny title. This is not a right-wing rant. The author has thought long and hard about his subject and is widely-read in and around it. He has read things that most of us would go a long way to avoid. Good for him. It's not all easy reading but it will give you food for thought
