The novel starts off when Phillip is orphaned and left to the care of his cold and selfish uncle and affectionate aunt. Then it takes us through his life at school, his year in Germany, his attempts at being an artist in Paris, an accountant in London and finally a doctor. We meet a lot of interesting characters along the way, most of whom suffer through poverty.

The problem with the novel is that, until I got close to the end, I almost never sympathized with Phillip. He seemed a very foolish and selfish young man to me and I never understood his obsession with Mildred. I wanted to punch him in the  face when he gave her money to go on a holiday with his friend Griffiths. I called him a fool when he spent money on her from his already diminished fortune. I guess Maugham must have been a  very good writer to invoke such emotions in me. 

I think some parts of the novel, such as his years at school, were overlong and unnecessary. The novelist could have given an idea of how bitter Phillip was and how he came to be like that without dwelling so much on his early years. But I must say some parts of the novel really moved me. Philip's transformation from a religious child to an atheist, his coming to the realization that he was never going to be more than a mediocre artist, the views on what art is -which the novelist conveys to us through the bohemian goups of artists in Paris- are very interesting. As one of the other commentators said, I felt the novelist did a very good job of reflecting and clearly explaining some of the ideas that I too have. 

I was very much moved by the depiction of the poorer classes towards the end of the novel and its stark contrast with the still poor but happy and healthy people in the country. I agree with one of the commentators who said the ending was unconvincing.[SPOILER] Although Maugham prepares us against it when he lets Philip go broke, almost starves him to death and makes him work in a shop, I can't imagine Phillip settling down with a lower class girl. It is almost too romantic
