
I was on a cruise reading this book when the captain came by.  He noticed it and complimented me on my selection - then went on and on about John Harrison.  In the eighteenth century, the lack of a good Timex was a mortal problem for sailors.  Without it, they couldn't tell longitude.  The loss of ships and lives was a major financial drain for every seafaring country.

 So important was this problem that the English Parliament created a special board authorizing R&D money for scientists working on the problem - and a HUGE reward for anyone's successful effort.  Two methods were in contention - total celestial navigation versus a reliable timepiece.  Unfortunately for Harrison, astronomical science was booming, mechanical arts were considered inferior, and the board was stacked against him.  He still won the prize.

Harrison spent his whole life working on clocks.  His innovations brought about huge improvements in timepieces at the same time that great strides were made in celestial navigation.  In reading this account, I was struck with the serendipity factor that causes one scientist to be remembered over another.  The young Charles Darwin was captivated by Humbolt's "Personal Narrative," a 2,000 page memoir of his voyage around South America.  Darwin jumped at the chance to live out this dream when offered a spot on the Beagle.  He later wrote to Humbolt, "My whole course of life is due to having read and reread as a youth, this personal narrative."
  
Newton dealt with gravity, planetary motion, physics, and calculus.  Maxwell discovered electromagnetic fields.  Madame Curie made significant discoveries about radiation.  Bohr and Schrodinger developed quantum theory.  Each of these scientists is likely to have a story like Darwin's.  The story in this book suggests they probably didn't work any harder or less intelligently than Harrison, yet they are all much better known.  What they (perhaps) accidentally spent their lives studying, for whatever reason, was deemed more worthy of renown than the making of a reliable timepiece.

  Anyway, this is a very enjoyable read about a remarkable man who created the first timepiece that would work at sea - solving one of the most serious scientific problems of his generation.

       
