It isn't often when I read a book, and over time that book's contents become a vital, enduring part of my life philosophy. Well, this happens to be the case with Karen Horney's "Neurosis and Human Growth." I think this is because her theory of neurosis is easily discernable in our modern, everyday society, and verifiable in one's own life. It's easy to see how the tension between reality and unattainable fantasy creates anxiety & depression, self-contempt and self-alienation. It's a truly tragic phenomenon, a terrible waste of human potential, and therefore this book is a tremendous gift in that it clarifies the dynamics of neurosis, shines abundant light on the matter. 

Perhaps most pertinently, this book is a wake-up call to parents-- to do all they can to spare their children the traumas that may cause them to eventually cling to idealized images for psychological safety. If a safe environment is provided in the first place, neuroses will most likely be circumvented. But that's a tall order for parents-- who are themselves inundated with idealized images from the media-- sleek, toned supermodel bodies, shiny, rugged Hummers-- things parents need, unless they don't want to measure up. Such media images can eventually cause financial tensions within a marriage, perhaps eventually causing divorce-- which is of course a trauma for children. Such an insidious, vicious cycle! 

This book has certainly made it clear and plain what a problem neurosis is, but if there's one thing I might say is wanting in this book, it is a clear solution or path of therapy out of neurosis. One reviewer mentioned Carl Roger's "On Becoming A Person", and I agree: He teaches the importance of 'congruence', of sticking with one's real emotions, instead of trying to feel what one 'should' feel. I would also recommend Kabat Zinn's "Full Catastrophe Living", or virtually any book that emphasizes acceptance of one's present-moment experience. In any case, I highly recommend Horney's book, I give it five stars, and for those who are considering buying this book, you may feel that you've gotten your money's worth after finishing the first chapter, "The Search For Glory". 



