&quot;Alma Ros: Vienna to Auschwitz&quot; is a poignant and beautifully related account of one the most extraordinary women who ever lived.  Alma Ros, the daughter of the most renowned violinist of Vienna who was  concertmaster of the Vienna Philharmonic and the first violinist of perhaps  the finest string quartet in the world, was also the niece of Gustav  Mahler.  She became a fine violinist and musician in her own right, taking  musical Vienna by storm, and creating a famous and successful women's  orchestra which toured throughout Europe.  Soon after the Nazi takeover in  Austria, the Jewish family left for England where Alma continued to give  concerts, playing even in her father's illustrious quartet.  But she also  took the risk of concertizing in Holland.  She was trapped by the sudden  Nazi blitzkrieg and takeover of Holland, tried to escape, was betrayed and  caught by the Nazis, and sent to Auschwitz-Birkenwald.  It was at Auschwitz  that Alma's extraordinary life takes on new dimensions: within the death  camp, she creates and directs a women's orchestra composed not only of  traditional symphonic instruments, but also of guitars, mandolins,  accordions, and recorders, playing arrangements made and copied by women  inmates of Auschwitz. Because of Alma's work at Auschwitz, hundreds of  women were saved from the Nazi gas chambers; in fact, many survivors  contributed to the book through interviews with the author. 	This story  has been told before, but never as well as Richard Newman and Karen Kirtley  relates it. Mr. Newman took twenty-two years of painstaking work of  research and interviewing before completing the book.  In the Editor's  Note, Ms. Kirtley points out Mr. Newman's "phenomenal achievement" of  talking with "more than one hundred people able to provide firsthand  information about Alma Ros." The book is carefully researched with  abundant documentation, a massive bibliography, and appendices which  contain lists of every woman who played in the Auschwitz-Birkenau  orchestra, a background of the Mahler-Ros family, a list of every  interview that was conducted, and a "camp glossary" of terms used at  Auschwitz-Birkenau.  The authors delve deeply into Vienna's history,  culture, and society, which produced the strong anti-Semitic feelings, and,  ultimately, the welcoming of Nazi troops into the city.  A short review, of  course, cannot do justice to the scope and dimension of this marvelous  book; it is a work that every student of music and European history should  read.  However, the book will also appeal to readers without a background  in modern European history, for the book is written clearly and with firm  structure and form. Richard Newman and Karen Kirley have provided the  reader with a remarkable book about an exceptional woman --- a poignant  reminder of the anguish and tragedy of Nazi Germany and Austria, but also  about the courage and humanity that existed in some people. This is an  extraordinary book
