I read this book in 2006 and sometimes still think of the sad story of "Little Boy Blue," so named because he was wearing a blue sleeper when his frozen body was found in a ditch.  (Note: Keep a box of Kleenex handy for this one!)  It took authorities quite some time to definitively link Danny's father, Eli Stutzman, to the crime.  However, this is one of those crimes that simply should not have happened.  Many, many individuals either witnessed or suspected the severe neglect and abuse suffered by this young boy, yet few intervened. At one time, little Danny was even placed in a foster home where he thrived, only to be returned to his sociopathic father.

I found the information about the Amish and Mennonite communities included in this book particularly interesting.  And, unlike so many authors who include pages of unnecessary detail about the area or community in which the crime may have occurred (Forgive me, Ann Rule), the information in this book was significant and relevant to the story.

Perhaps Eli Stutzman was burdened by his strict, Amish upbringing.  Certainly, homosexuality would not have been tolerated.  However, none of this explains how incredibly sick and sexually obsessed Eli Stutzman was.  His entire life appears to have revolved around meeting his own sexual needs.  While no one reports ever suspecteing Eli may have sexually abused his own son, his son was certainly exposed to many unsavory people and terribly neglected.  Also noteworthy is that Eli Stutzman presents with a glaring lack of empathy or concern for others throughout his lifetime.  He used others for whatever material, physical, or emotional gains he could and then quickly moved on.

There may be much about Eli Stutzman's childhood that remains unknown.  Perhaps some of that could explain his abnormal development and very sick obsessions.  But if that is true, none of that information found its way into this book.  While it is rather frightening and disheartening to believe in the "Bad Seed" theory of personality developement, there do appear to be individuals with very early sociopathic tendencies that, if left unchecked, develop into dangerous, manipulative individuals.  Eli Stutzman just may be one of them
