I used the "CCIE Routing and Switching - Official Exam Certification Guide, Second Edition", by Wendell Odom, Jim Geier and Naren Mehta. ISBN: 1587201410 as part of my preparation the CCIE Routing and Switching exam.  This book provides an excellent high-level overview of the topics covered in the CCIE Written blueprint.  However, be aware that it is in fact an abbreviated overview of each subject.

This book is well organized, contains an excellent glossary and index, and provides quick summaries of each subject.  On many of the topics, the authors provide some excellent insight and unique presentation methods.  For example, the mnemonic for the BGP decision process was tremendously helpful.  Also, I like the included CD-ROM which provides the entire book in PDF format and an excellent test engine.

I did not like the deviation from the standard Cisco Press format in the Foundation Summary section.  In multiple instances I felt the new information presented in the Foundation Summary section would have been much more appropriately placed in the chapter.  Additionally, I prefer the more specific detailed questions typically found in the Foundation Summary rather than using the practice exam for chapter review.  Additionally, I felt some of the topics were discussed so quickly and at such a basic level that it was as if the authors were just short of saying yadda-yadda-yadda.   

I used this book in conjunction with "Routing TCP/IP - Volume I" and "Routing TCP/IP - Volume II" and Cisco's website.  Typically, I would read the explanation in the "CCIE Routing and Switching - Official Exam Certification Guide" and if clearly understood everything in that section and was able to add more detailed information, I would move on to the next subject.  Otherwise, I would go back and re-read the subject as presented in the Routing TCP/IP book and as presented on Cisco's website.  

All in all, "CCIE Routing and Switching - Official Exam Certification Guide does a good job of covering the topics outlined in the CCIE Routing and Switching blueprint.  Some topics are cover in more detail (or clear explanations) than others, but overall they are covered mostly at the fundamental level. This book alone does not cover every thing you need to know, but it does do an excellent job of facilitating a thorough review of subject that you must know in order to pass the written exam.
