For those who assert that this novel is boring, derivative, insufferable, pretentious: nonsense! We obviously read different novels. This is a page-turner. Once I began, I was through it in a day and really didn't want interruptions.

On the other hand, it's a very dense book with a singular specificity of prose. I've never read anything quite like it, and I suspect that only a fairly literate reader will enjoy it. I'm well-read (and am a fan of Eco's essays) and hold a graduate degree from a top university, but there are no doubt certain advantages granted by this work to students of European history and languages (for the record, I am not one of these). I did use both Wikipedia and Google as I read it so as not to lose the thread of the story in a couple of places. This is the reason for the four stars rather than five, though this  isn't a criticism of Eco or his writing per se, since this broad historical, geographical, and linguistic sweep is intrinsic to both the nature of the story and to Eco's underlying project. Rather, the deduction of a star is meant to provide a realistic indicator to readers of these reviews that this novel won't be for everyone, by any means.

I won't bother with plot at all, since there are synopses everywhere and it's widely known anyway. With regard to the real subtexts of the book: epistemology and collective epistemology, interpretation and semiosis, and materiality, I'll just say that it's a troubling work on a personal level, as I suspect it will be for many. One could probably even call it an "important" read, but at the same time I know that I've realized after reading it that I wasn't particularly prepared to confront so intimately the issues that Eco lays bare here, even though I work with them often on an academic level. It is not a comforting work to me right now, though I also suspect that I'll read it again in a few years and may have a different reaction then.

Really a deep and engaging novel, if you can survive the barrier to entry, namely density (of prose, of lexicon, of historical detail alike)
