This is perhaps my favorite herbal specialty book. The subject matter is uniquely interesting, but it is the firsthand, adventurous approach to writing that makes this book very enjoyable. It is a written travel documentary, fortified with lush descriptions, interesting observations and factoids, scientific research and great overall storytelling.

Perhaps what is most valuable amongst the handful of plant species he chooses to delve into is Tongkat Ali. There seems to be very little information generally available on this plant, despite the fact that a number of it's products are already beginning to appear on the herbal supplement market. This book has a lot of detail about this wonderful tree's native history, traditional and modern uses. It provides a comprehensive understanding of what the tree is, what it does, how it works in the human body. This is rather important information for anyone interested in using Tongkat Ali. I would grant two stars for this information on Tongkat Ali alone.

Rhodiola Rosea is another particularlarly intriguing point. What is interesting is how most of the herbs described by the author are known to have multiple uses. I was most familiar with rhodiola rosea as an adaptogen and mental activity enhancer. I did not know that it was also widely used as an aphrodisiac, or that it was commonly extracted by tincture in it's native land. It is this way thoughout the book, even with plants one might be familiar with. There is a lot of great, important information about these featured herbs.

Information about some of the herbs, such as maca, catuaba, and ashwaghanda, were also part of his last book, "Tales from the Medicine Trail." Some of the same information is here, though it is written or presented with slight differences. The herb Muirapuama is, for some reason, absent in Hot Plants. In "Tales from the Medicine Trail" it was considered to work wonders as an aphrodisiac when combined with catuaba. We now find catuaba alone, but apparrently just as effective. The author could perhaps elaborate upon this omission a little, for those who do like to follow his work. 

The only place where the book might perhaps be improved by more detail is with the last section about chocolate. The author researches the candy form with which we are all familiar- a cooked, processed chocolate. This preparation is not the only traditional use of this plant, nor is it the most potent aphrodisiac form. He unfortunately does not get into the healthier raw chocolates (cacao nibs), which are more renowned for their libido-enancing effects, and are also a more natural form of the plant. Cooking the cacao destroys much of what is inerent in the seed medicinally, including a large percentage of inherent theobromine, the principal love mood-enhancer the author describes. Raw cacao also has other important medicinal and nutritional benefits. 

Absent entirely of it's own section is the rather widley available herb Daimana, which is a very effective aphrodisiac plant. It is not really elaborated upon in this book, but I feel it definately belongs in there, especially if chocolate is to be included. The herb was traditionally combined with chocolate in the rich, spicy drinks that the Moctezuma imbibed daily, granting him his legendary libido.

Even though more Hot Plants exist than are described in this book, Chris Kilham has done a great job with the ones upon which he has chosen to feature, and expand his research. A fantastic job, in fact. I strongly recommend this to anyone with the interest in herbal medicine
