This is an interesting book devoted to the importance of knowledge in the formation of modern industrial economies.  Mokyr has several goals.  The first and most important is to illuminate the origins of the modern industrial economy.  Others are to illustrate the impact of modern economy, particularly its knowledge based elements, on modern life, to discuss barriers to the acquisition and dissemination of knew and useful knowledge, and to discuss differences in economic behavior between firms and households.  The quality of the book is somewhat uneven, possibly because this book is based on prior essays and lectures that Mokyr has prepared in the last decade.  While the book certainly has a strong theme, the individual chapters don't allows cohere.
The initial part of the book is devoted to the thesis that a key, perhaps the key, feature leading to the genesis of the Industrial Revolution, was the birth in Western Europe of interest in "useful knowledge."  This is not science per se, or engineering per se, but an amalgam of both driven by a desire to use knowledge of the natural world in ways that manipulate the natural world to human advantage.  For Mokyr, the scientific revolution of the 17th century is a necessary precursor to the Industrial Revolution but the foundation of the Industrial Revolution is the Enlightenment's dedication to science, rationalism, its insistence that human activity can improve the lot of humanity, and its insistence on public dissemination of useful knowledge through publishing and education.  The quintessential example of this crucial aspect of the Enlightenment is the Great Encyclopedia, dedicated to disseminating the best practices in virtually all areas of human activity.  Mokyr makes a very good case that this basic attitude permeated much of Europe, from famous intellectuals to craftsman and business seeking to produce incremental improvements in production technologies.  Implicit in Mokyr's discussion is that this attitude, set in the expanding societies of Western Europe, and coupled, particularly in Britain, with a society that encouraged capitalism, caused the Industrial Revolution.  He argues, for example, that the development of the factory was driven in large part by the advantages of bringing expertise about most efficiect production practices under one roof.  
Later sections of the book are devoted to the impact on households of emphasizing rational and useful knowledge.  These sections stress the public health impacts of this aspect of industrialization.  Mokyr has an interesting section on the differences between households and firms.  He also discusses barriers to innovation with varying success.  Parts of this discussion are good, parts are tendentious.  A criticism of some parts of the book are that Mokyr resorts to the practice, common among economists, of using equations and graphs to make points, essentially using these tools as metaphors for his verbal descriptions.  Since he is not actually analyzing data, this practice is at best redundant, and sometimes actually confusing.  
Mokyr is at his best in making a strong argument for the role of knowledge in the genesis of the Industrial Revolution, and by implication, its role in our contemporary economies.  He is gently but strongly critical of other views of birth of the Industrial Revolution, notably the idea that it was a direct result of European commerical capitalism.  In this, he joins a number of other recent scholars who have been critical of this simple idea.     
