Throughout the last couple of weeks, my class has been studying much ado about
nothing. Shakespear was an amazing writer in my opinion. He is able to write so little, yet
get his entire, deep point across. The play was called much ado about nothing because
throughout the entire play there was fighting and crying and decieving.. and for what?
Nothing. I beleive that i learned a lot from it. Not only about Shakespeares sytle of
writing, but about love too. To answer the question whats shakespeares purpose for
writing, i had to think carefully. But I beleive that his point of writing was to show the
real meaning of love. Throughout the entire play, there were people loving each other and
not knowing it, and loving each other but not knowing each other.. and it was just a huge
mess. Claudio and Hero had "love at first site" but Claudio beleived what he thought he
saw Hero doing on a roof, which proves that he didnt know her as well as he should to
love her. So I think that Shakespeare makes you wonder if their love was true or not. This
story had many values in it that one could learn. I, personally learned something very
important to which I had not seen before-  How easily people mistake love for lust. An
example of this would be when Claudio and Hero met. They had no idea who each other
were, not even something as simple as their names, yet they were "in love". I do not see
how you can possibly be in love with someone from first site. That is called lust. I also
learned something very important to which I had not seen before- How stupid people act
when they are in love. An example of people acting weird and stupid when they are in
love would be Benedict and Beatrice. At first, they hated each other. The play starts out
with them being cruel, rude, and sarcastic to one another and the reader knows there is
something between them. Then, when they are both deceived and told that they love one
another, they start prancing around like fairies. Although this is funny, it is very weird
and confusing at the same time that their emotions towards each other can just change
automatically. Another example would be at Claudio and Hero's second wedding. After
all of this love talk, when their love is put out into the public, they start to deny it and say
they are just friends. Love makes them act so weird, but they end up deciding to be
together which I believe is for the good. This play is not extremely hard to understand, yet
has a meaningful story. It is written in old english so that is probably the most difficult
thing to understand about it. I would recommend it to someone who could use a good
laugh because of all the comic relief in it. There is loads of sarcasm and its written in an
interesting way. After all, it is Shakespeare. I would not, however, recommend this book
to someone who is expecting a deep, poetic, tragic story because they are simply not
going to get it. This story isn't complex nor is it deep. It is all, really, just much ado about
nothing. I enjoyed the book, one; because I could understand what was going on
throughout the whole thing, and two; because the writing is funny and it kept me
entertained. So, Id really recommend it to anyone
