J.D. Robbs is a new author for me though I am familiar with both this pseudonym and her real author's name of Nora Roberts. In general I tend to stay away from mysteries that use rough language, and mysteries dependent upon sexual predators, and though there was both of these topics or tendencies in this book, I could barely put it down. It was extremely engrossing, and I find that many of my own opinions concerning those who were abused as children were mirrored by Robb/Roberts. Many people have existed through the history of the world who overcame horrendous abuse, and used their lives for good, so I have no pity for those who 'choose' (yes, 'choose') to become evil to fulfill some need in side of them to punish the person who hurt them in the first place.

Robb's characterization is not three dimensional in this book. You get a sense of Eve's, Roarke's, and their friends voice and mannerisms, but I found it hard to bring up a picture of the people themselves in these books. Maybe in some of the other ones that I intend to read.

With the latest natural disasters of hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we saw newspaper articles released along with photographs of a 4000 pound alligator who had been shot in the streets of New Orleans, as he feasted on the dead and unwary. I have always loved animals, even most predators like the big cats, but there were a few animals that I would gladly rid the world of because they are nothing but lean, mean, eating machines. Alligators and Sharks are some of them. I told my husband they should give the military freedom to shoot every alligator in sight down there...I would not care. Another predator would take it's place in the environment. To a good extent I feel the same way about rapists, child molestors, and serial murderers. The loss of any form of responsibility, compassion for others, and no purpose to life but to rid themselves of that person (or ones like him or her( who impacted their lives so horribly) leaves society with little choice but to lock these killing machines away and throw away the key (especially since the liberals refuse to allow the death penalty to be practiced. Better these guys, then the innocent who just happened to be seen through their crosshairs!

Karen sadle
