Area 7 By: Matthew Reilly   IBSN: 0-312-98322-0 kentucky fried panda

Explosions Galore!

Are you afraid of biological war? Or, are you afraid of diabolical government scandals that deal with the destruction of minorities in certain countries? If you answered yes to either of these questions you would have a distinct like for the book Area 7 by Matthew Reilly.

Area 7 is about a lone American soldier who is assigned to guard the president in a top secret intelligence mission. His name is Shane Scofield call sign: Scarecrow. At the base the president learns that his hired scientists have created a biological weapon that specifically targets people with certain skin pigments. That means that they created a literal racist weapon. When all seems to be a routine tour, it turns for the worse. The president finds out that every major airport in America has been planted with a thermonuclear plasma warhead which is set to explode upon his death. The story continues as he is pursued by rogue Air Force soldiers and Chinese commandos. Somehow, Scarecrow must protect the president against all odds. This book is definitely a science fiction story.

I liked this book because of its fast pace action and ever developing storyline. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading about government conspiracies and nuclear war technology. Because of my recommendations though, People of a higher age group should read it. If you would like your child to read it take heed that it contains graphic scenes and "swear words"

This book was a page turner because of the extreme pace of the action. The story unfolds during the action instead of after it. 

It was very easy to pay attention to this book because it constantly delivered action. 

The plot was a tad unbelievable because it employs the total treason of 50 air force soldiers. That kind of treason would cause a total national military breakdown.

If you read the story have a great time reading it.

							Sincerely, Kentucky Fried Pand
