As we enter the 21st century, the advances of science and genetics are increasingly becoming a part of our lives. In Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters, author Matt Ridley paints a compelling picture of the genetic "revolution" and what it means to society as a whole. The mapping of the human genome, according to him, was just the beginning of a greater process of discovery as society as a whole will change because of genomics. The structure of the book is unique in that each of the 23 chapters represents one of the human chromosomes; a gene on each chromosome is highlighted to give an overall theme to that chapter. Through this technique, Ridley gives the reader new insights into topics ranging from personality and intelligence to fate and the very origins of life. 

One of the most intriguing chapters dealt with the sex chromosomes, X and Y. While these determine gender--females carry to X's and males carry one X and one Y--the study of how they emerged is fascinating. When mammals switched from determining gender by the temperature of eggs to a fate based on genes, the antagonism between the male and female chromosomes became incredible. The author cites several studies showing how even something as simple as DNA can show "selfish" traits as each of these two chromosomes has competed for dominance over time.  

His treatment of personality is equally intriguing. Chromosome 11 contains the story of the D4DR gene that creates dopamine receptors in the brain. Based on its regulation, personalities and attitudes can vary. For example, increased levels of dopamine cause a person to be more extroverted and spontaneous while the reverse is true for lower levels. The complexity of the situation, however, is further revealed by studies cited that say that there are potentially hundreds of genes controlling different aspects of dopamine receptors, and these receptors are only one factor in a person's personality. 
	
This constant flow to a variety of new perspectives on interesting and sometimes controversial topics--the genetic basis of homosexuality being just one of these controversies--constantly engages the reader. Nevertheless, at times, the writing can be a bit dense and overly technical. For instance, the chapter on politics only vaguely touches on that subject, focusing on a seemingly unrelated study on cannibalism in indigenous tribes. At that point in the book, the reader must choose between laboring over the chapter to find the significance or simply skipping it altogether. A good approach for those less focused on the scientific data and more interested in the societal impacts of genetic technology would be to simply skip these technical parts and move on to more clearly written parts. 
	
I would definitely recommend this book for those interested in biology and genetics as careers; however, for those who simply wish to learn the basics and know what the long-term impacts of the "genome revolution" will be, I'd recommend simply skimming over the more technical parts. In Genome, Matt Ridley certainly did succeed in popularizing genomics and uncovering the fascinating wonders contained within our own genetic matter.
