I love reading amazon reviews and it's astonishing how especially in Koontz' case reviews seem to vary between 5 and 1 star reviews all the time. 

I have enjoyed about 8 different books by him and this one so far is my favourite. Let me say though that I am listening to an audio version. It's about 12 hours long but unabridged. 

The most criticized aspect about Koontz seems to be, that he can get totally carried away by his own literary ambitions, partly rambling on and on - again, I catch myself from time to time not listening, just to wake up to the story again..."what was that?". 

While this is a complete turn-off for many, for me this is just something that bothers me sometimes, but all in all I still find them enjoyable. 

For a downloadable version to listen to on your ipod go to audible.com

Why is the book good? For once, he has created a likeable character, even better than Odd Thomas. I don't have to draw this out, other reviews have done that already. Also the dog is great of course. 

But especially I like the very real creepiness of some parts of the book, they are almost memorable like in "they should be famous", like the part where jack nickolson breaks through the door with an ax in "the shining" (the movie) is kind of famous in an inofficial way. 

For example, there is a great part with a monkey, narrated so brilliantly that one gets wet hands. There is a fabulous part about a cat and a dog grinning at each other, the most surreal writing I have ever encountered. I almost freaked when listening to this, it was that good (and I am not new to the horror-genre). Obviously it's not about the grinning, but the entire feeling of whatelse is going on. Truly hallucinogenic writing. You want to look out for those pages, all this happens on a boat, more than half-way through the book. WORLD-CLASS! You've never read anything quite like it,  very admirable writing and thinking. Maybe also taking drugs or drinking a lot while writing it. lol. And then, there is a very creepy part with a cop, the main character and the dog in a car. wow, very scary, as the cop pours out his innermost phantasies, especially since noone knows if he's really a cop... Can't say no more, I am engrossed by the story and have to return to the last three hours of the audio-book now. 

All in all some parts are so very very good, that they compensate for the typical Koontz-shortcomings. 

I would also like to point out a review here by M.Dorsey just a few clicks away. While my rating of the book is different, look up his or her review, for there is still a lot of truth in it and I just laughed myself silly. Thanks M. Dorsey
