Is it a myth that Black men are more hung than White men?  Do White men possess "penis envy" because of what is purported to be a myth? In the grand scheme of things, does size really matter? And if it does, whom does it matter to most? Author Scott Poulson-Bryant discusses these and other questions concerning Black male sexuality in HUNG:  A Meditation on the Measure of Black Men in America.  Amusing and sometimes chatty, this book delves heavily into the discussion about why people are so caught up in the size of the male penis.  Men, White and Black alike, sometimes subconsciously use the penis size as a measuring point for their own sexuality.  White men, the author reports, sometimes develop an envious nature when it comes to Black men because of their fixation on the "hungature" a Black man has.  He traces this back to the slavery era when Black men were hung because of the perceived sexual threat to White women as White men saw it.   

Some Black men, to a certain degree, use penis size to measure their own success.  From the childhood games that little boys play to the locker rooms they share as adults, Black men are checking each other out to see how they measure up. And yes, men do check each other out.  Mr. Poulson-Bryant even relates a humorous story where a Black male didn't get any respect until his comrades discovered he was well endowed.  The author also covers how women relate to this issue as well.  Surprisingly enough, this matter also causes quite a stir in the gay community.  

The author provides an entertaining as well as interesting dialogue on the fixation America seems to have on phallic size.  He provides this discussion through engaging accounts of his true-life experiences and those of people he has interviewed.  He relates many stories about penis size as well as the idiosyncrasies encountered by various races and the stereotypical presumptions shared in the entertainment industry because of it.  Unfortunately, it is nearly all stories.  There is just a smidgen of history on the subject as he covers a multitude of areas where this discussion has reared its head (pun intended). His sources are almost all friends or acquaintances and a few celebrities, some of whom are gay and many of whom have been given other names to protect their identity.  At times I wondered if this was really about the Black man's legendary member size or Scott Poulson-Bryant.  Whatever the intent, this discourse, I'm sure, will inspire some very interesting debates on the subject.

Reviewed by Brenda M. Lisbon
(...
