I was intrigued when I first saw this pop up on Amazon while looking for another book about the Fifties and I placed an order.  Now having read and looked through it a more apt title would be 'Going Home to the White Middle Class Suburban Fifties'.  The author covers the period with a rather narrow focus, concentrating mainly on home life in the newly built suburbs and the reason for this is because nearly all the interesting illustrations (paintings and photos) are images taken from ads of the time.  There are chapters about The Living Room, In the Kitchen, The Bed and Bath, Watching Television, all areas where pictures from ads would be available but no chapter, for instance, about suburban shopping, supermarkets and malls were not heavy advertisers in mass-market magazines back then.  It does seem odd to allow the availability of ad images to dictate the contents of a book about the recent past. 

This does create some odd situations, page thirty-seven shows a Saturday Little League game with an Oldsmobile taking most of the space, page forty has a painting to show a village theater but it is dominated by a 1957 Oldsmobile, on pages forty-one and forty-two the five-day-a-week trek to collect commuter hubby from the train station uses a painting with six Chevrolets taking more space than the train.

The author covers the period in a straightforward way and I get the impression that it is the pictures that count rather than the words (set in a rather large type size) which just fill out the space between the two, three or four pictures on each spread.  The captions are redundant as they only describe what can be seen in the pictures.  There is a good index but no bibliography.

'Going Home to the Fifties does capture some of the feel of this wonderful period for the white middle classes and it was a neat idea to use the very images that helped to create this feeling but I think another book does a better job, the stunning 'All-American Ads: 50s' by Jim Heimann, 960 pages of color ads including many that had the pictures used in Bill Yenne's book but now you can see and read the whole ad.  Two other books I've enjoyed are Thomas Hines's 'Populuxe' and Time/Life books 'The American Dream: the 50s' both have interesting text and plenty of photos to capture the period.

***FOR AN INSIDE LOOK click on 'customer images' under the cover
