I looked everywhere online for a detailed review on this book before buying it, with no luck.  The book description of Jamie reaching out and telepathically connecting with the hero, Aerik, who isn't at first sure where she is got me interested enough to pay the $20 price.

Twenty-three year old Jamie McPherson lives in a small town by herself, having lost her family to different tragedies.  One night she is feeling exceptionally grief-stricken and lonely.  It is this time she inadvertently connects with Aerik Wolfe.

Aerik is a vampire who has lived for centuries.  Jamie's mental touch from half a world away is unexpected, and her emotions call to him to find her.  His kind are known as guardians of the night.  They bring justice against those that kill or bring harm to innocent lives, making sure those enemies suffer equal or greater pain to that of their victims.  
 
If you're looking for something action-packed, this might not be for you as most action happens much, much later in the book.  The book focuses on the relationship between Jamie and Aerik with a plot on the unresolved case of the murder of Jamie's brother.  In one or two instances you get a trip down memory lane to Aerik's earlier days before and after he turned vampire.  Naturally in a vampire romance comes the issue of how a mortal and an undead will decide to continue their relationship.  What will Jamie and Aerik do?  I like that the heroine put a lot of thought into answering that question.  Furthermore, I also appreciated that the source of their telepathic connection is explored rather than chalked up to an "unexplained act of Fate".

The book can at times be very descriptive, giving the reader a good idea of what's going on and sometimes making one anxious for a bit more dialogue.  There are times that I thought Jamie could have figured out a few things a lot sooner than she did.  She's not a heroine full of too much attitude, which can make a story frustrating to read.  She's more open-minded to what Aerik is, and he's patient in developing his relationship with her.  I admit I didn't feel the emotions in the characters like I have in Amanda Ashley's vampire books or Christine Feehan's Dark series.  That's part of the reason I gave the book four stars instead of five. 

As previous reviews have mentioned, there are a lot of grammar/spelling errors.  Perhaps because I was expecting them it didn't bother me as much and I was able to return my focus to the story.  Just be warned you'll find a lot of them.

All in all, the story is good.  The title of the book has a special meaning in the story, and I liked the author's take on that.  The plot is simple, but thankfully the author wraps up everything so you're not left hanging at the end.  I appreciated the occasional humor that livened the story up a bit.  I do wish the book wasn't so expensive, though.  That's another reason for four stars.  If you're in for a vampire romance fix and have run out of stuff to read, this is good for filling the time until you find something.
