This is a fascinating book about the creation of Clif Bar and the business philosophy of its co-founder Gary Erickson. It's a good story, but at times it seems too good to be true. While reading it, I wasn't fully convinced that there wasn't some authorial bias, so I did some Google-based research on the Internet. This confirmed many of the assertions in the book, so I believe Erikson to be the genuine article -- someone committed to building a great company and sticking to his idealistic principles for sustaining his employees, customers, and suppliers as well as sustaining his community and the planet.

It seems that the best way to build a principled company is to keep it privately owned with no intention of ever going public. In fact, Erickson has talked to people like Mo Siegel of Celestial Seasonings, Ben Cohen of Ben and Jerry's and Gary Hirshberg of Stoneyfield Farms and comes to the conclusion that nothing less than 100% ownership is acceptable. As he puts it, "I didn't want to become a slave to Wall Street--I'm an entrepreneur who cherishes freedom."

Earlier in Clif Bar's history, Erickson touted his 50/50 partnership with Lisa Thomas, but as he points out in the book, 50% ownership can lead to a stalemate when important decisions have to be made. He hardly mentions his former partner after the first chapter, which describes the point in 2000 when he walked out on a deal to sell the company for $120million. It appears that this was the significant emotional event that drove his effort to build Clif Bar into a great company and to leave it behind as his legacy. As his wife Kit puts it, Clif Bar is the way Erikson expresses himself in the world. This statement seems fully borne out by the rest of the book.

He starts the history of Clif Bar with a personal story of going on a 100 mile bike ride that turned unexpectedly into a 175 mile ride. This was what he calls the first epiphany bike ride and was sustained by only 6 power bars and a banana. As the story goes, it was when he found that he couldn't force down the 6th bar that he decided to make his own. This was the epiphany. It's celebrated every year by a company-sponsored bike event that follows the same route.

Such epiphanies occur frequently, but we're not many of us built like Erickson, so we don't tend to turn our ideas into such a formidable reality as he has done. 

One disappointment is that -- after the initial drama of not quite selling the company -- the book mostly skirts the misgivings and failures on the way to building Clif Bar into what it is now. It would have been interesting to learn more about the decisions -- and particularly the failures -- that occurred on the way to building a radical corporate culture at Clif Bar that's in sharp contrast to the competitive, winner-takes-all, bottom-line culture of most of corporate America. 

However, there are many good reasons to read this book. It's full of great stories and metaphors. His management ideas are workable, and he's created one of the best mission statements I've seen. This is given in the form of five "aspirations:" Sustaining Our Brands; Sustaining Our Business; Sustaining Our People; Sustaining Our Community; Sustaining Our Planet. He elaborates these in a very creative way. Each aspiration is illustrated and supported by an image of a Clif Bar wrapper, with the "Nutrition Facts" and "Ingredients" replaced by a list of accomplishments achieved during one year of business. These show that the mission of Clif Bar is not an empty one.

The aspirations condense Clif Bar's mission and values down to just seven words, thus satisfying one criterion for a good mission statement. Erikson clearly lived and promulgated these values for some years before formalizing them and writing them down on paper. He also works continuously to meet the company's aspirations. It seems obvious to measure and assess a company based on the achievement of its mission, but that's not what most companies do. Employees may get a poster to pin up in their cubes, but usually there's little evidence that the leaders of the company are acting in accordance with the corporate values and the annual report generally pays only lip service to values other than the shareholder value and the financial results.

At the end of the book, Erikson sums up his achievements at Clif Bar by saying that Clif Bar's business model is like a jazz score, and that the people of Clif Bar are like jazz musicians. "The core is jazz: the freedom to improvise in the creation of beautiful things, products, and people." This is a nice idea and an appropriate metaphor for the whole book, a tale about the raising of Clif Bar improvised around the stories of his life.

The book is an entertaining -- and at some points dazzling -- composition, but it is also important as a model. Erikson does something valuable by giving us one more book that shows how to build a successful, socially responsible company. This adds to a growing number of such books including Joy at Work (Dennis Bakke), The Living Company (Arie De Geus), and Saving the Corporate Soul (David Batstone).

Raising the bar is a great read, but most of all it's important for its ideas and the example it provides. Erikson is an inspiring model for others. He doesn't believe that taking care of people is just a way to make them work harder. As Erikson puts it, "We believe that if we provide meaningful work as well as something beyond work, people will do their jobs well and lead healthier, more balanced lives." 

Fortunately, Erikson's is not an isolated example, and more and more people are practicing the belief that stewardship and sustainability is more important than maximizing shareholder profit. If you're working to start a sustainable, socially responsible, learning organization, this is essential reading. If not, at least read the book and spread the word about Clif Bar -- it's a great product and behind it lies a great story.

Graham Lawes
