Little Town on the Prairie, by Laura Ingalls Wilder

After the long, long winter the shining sun warmed the Dakota prairie. The Ingalls moved back to their shanty on their claim, and life continued. Work took up all their time in the spring. Pa had a new plow for breaking the prairie sod; it spared the horses, and Pa too. After the planting was done Pa and Laura built the missing part of the claim shanty; now there was two bedrooms. There is a new problem in the cornfield; gophers ate half of the kernels. A good cat would help here. Pa loses some of his hair to a mouse. The many new settlers resulted in the need to organize a county. When Pa returned he brought a kitten for them to raise. Pa worked as a carpenter in town building the new church. Laura hoped she could get a job teaching school when she turned sixteen. Pa could not hunt game, but could only buy meat. Mrs. Brant would give a setting of eggs, so they would have chickens (if hawks or weasels or foxes didn't get them). Better times were coming! Their little kitty killed its first mouse. Pa tells Laura she could work in town sewing shirts for bachelors. Laura had never seen a store that sold only dry goods. She also saw another type of family life. Laura also saw two drunken men.

After six weeks of work, Laura experienced a lay-off. The Ingalls got 14 chicks, a gift from Mrs. Boast. The Fourth of July starts with a "BOOM", and Laura walks to town with Pa and Carrie (Chapter 8). They hear firecrackers and a speech. There is a threat from "Spanish needle grass",  and blackbirds are eating the shocked oats. "Earthly life is a battle" said Ma (p.89). Chapter 9 tells of the complications in women's dresses. The blackbirds were devouring their corn and oats. Pa shot as many as he could, and they found they were good to eat. The new school year sees Mary going away to a college in Iowa. Laura and Carrie return to the town school, and note how it has grown in the last year. Laura is surprised to find Nellie Oleson at school! Nellie puts on airs, but Pa tells Laura that Mr. Oleson lost his business and is just like the other homesteaders (p.135). In the fall they picked and packed vegetables for winter in town. The town was prepared for a harsh winter. But little Carrie was thin and pale. The new teacher Miss Wilder seemed to favor Nellie Oleson. There is trouble, and Laura and Carrie are sent home from school by the teacher. The children resent this teacher, and were disorderly. Nellie was two-faced (p.172).

One morning Almanzo offers Laura a ride to school, and they exchange name cards. The people in town start a literary society for their entertainment and education. Pa Ingalls suggests a formal organization could get in the way of the functions (Chapter 18). They chose sides for a spelling match. On Thanksgiving they attend a church supper. In late March they are entertained by a minstrel show. The new grass shows in April, and so does a surprise blizzard. Two newcomers from the East were lost (they did not dig into a haystack). Kitty caught more gophers, and some blackbirds. Mr. Owen, the new teacher, taught Willie Oleson to do better in school. The Ingalls family goes to the revival meeting. Almanzo walks Laura home from the revival meeting every night. Laura was invited to a sleigh ride. They celebrate their first Christmas without Mary, and feel sad. Laura meets Mr. Brewster, who is looking for a new teacher in their district, and wants Laura! Laura accepts this job offer, contingent upon getting a teaching certificate. The Superintendent of School tests and passes Laura to teach. Laura will start next week. Pa is on the school board, and knows Mr. Brewster.
