When your last name is Baudelaire, it is a known fact that you will somehow stumble upon trouble, no matter how hard you may try and avoid it. When you're last name is Baudelaire and you're an orphan, stumbling upon trouble increases tenfold. Which is why the Baudelaire orphans (Violet, Klaus, and Sunny) know instantly after they begin floating along the Stricken Stream that trouble is lurking around some vicious corner. However, as they are not dolphins, seals, or fish, they did not expect their next bout of trouble to take place underwater. But, alas, that is exactly where they find themselves on their next dreadful adventure. Having come across a submarine that is filled with three crew members (Captain Widdershins, his step-daughter Fiona, and, lo-and-behold the Baudelaire Orphans old pal, Phil), the Baudelaire's enter the underwater vehicle, and begin their next journey. Within a short while, the three orphans learn that Captain Widdershins is a member of V.F.D., and they quickly realize that he is on their side, willing to help them discover the truth about the fire that took their beloved parents lives. However, when the orphans, along with Fiona (a young mycologist), prepare for a bit of deep-sea diving, they soon find that young Sunny has been infected with Medusoid Mycelium (a deadly fungi). Now, the siblings are searching for a way to save their baby sister from a very certain death, without many supplies. As if that weren't difficult enough for the Baudelaire's to endure, they have just discovered that Count Olaf is now trailing them under the sea, and plans on capturing them, and (you guessed it) claiming their fortune as his own.

It is quite unusual to note that, having read the ten previous novels in this depressing series, this one leaves the reader feeling the teensiest bit happy when the last page is turned. Snicket has begun to make the three Baudelaire orphans, whom we all know and love, grow up. They are developing school-boy (and girl) crushes, celebrating birthdays that make them another year older, and increasing their vocabulary quite a bit. They are pursuing new hobbies, such as the culinary arts, and writing, and, perhaps, even a love for deep-sea diving...perhaps not. He has even changed Count Olaf from the miserable, obsessive, self-absorbed cretin he used to be; giving him a chance to show his giggling, poetry-loving, order-taking, sensitive side, leading the reader to think that maybe, just maybe, this series will have a happy ending. For those who have read the ten previous novels, THE GRIM GROTTO is essential reading, especially if you plan on finishing the series to see what type of miserable ending the Baudelaires end up with. A not-so-grim tale that will leave you gasping for air (and dry land).

Erika Sorocco
Freelance Reviewer
