In "The Aspern Papers" a short novel from Henry James, the unnamed narrator is an American editor and critic who travels to Venice. Assuming a false name, he insinuates himself as a lodger into the palace belonging to Juliana Bordereau. He believes that Juliana possesses papers and poems written to her by the long-dead poet Jeffrey Aspern, and while these papers have a monetary value, they also represent a great deal more to the narrator. Juliana, now an elderly lady lives in "obscurity" with her spinster niece, Tita, and officially, to those who have sought unpublished Aspern material in the past, Juliana and Tita state that no such papers exist. The narrator takes rooms in the palace with no clear plan in mind--except to ascertain that the papers really exist, and to acquire them...somehow.

For the Henry James fan, this is an exquisite, perfect story. One of James's favourite themes--the acquisition of worldly goods at the cost of one's moral integrity is at play here--with the Aspern papers representing to the narrator a sort of treasure. Another theme is the issue of privacy--an issue that concerned James in his own lifetime. James asks whether Juliana has the 'right' to hide and destroy letters and poems from Aspern. Or does she owe it to the world to hand over these papers? Should Juliana's wishes be respected in this matter?

Structurally this is a fascinating and perfect story that drips with the decaying atmosphere of the depilated and neglected Venetian palace. The narrator presents his version of events with little introspection and no analysis of the moral implications of his behaviour. Readers are free to draw their own conclusions. At times deliberately obtuse and self-deceptive, the narrator's manipulative behaviour raises interesting moral questions. While ostensibly he desires the illusive papers for the 'greater good,' his ends-justify-the-means approach cloaks his personal ambitions. The narrator is a marvelous Jamesian character--emotionally inadequate, an observer and a spy of sorts, he insinuates himself into the Bordereau household and then is driven to scurrilous behaviour due to the proximity of the papers--objects he covets and views as treasure beyond price. On the slippery slope of morality vs. ambition, the narrator tells the tale from his point-of-view as he very deliberately fails to recognize the impact of his behaviour towards the lonely spinster, Miss Tita. And we begin to wonder just how far he's prepared to go to get his hands on the papers. "The Aspern Papers" is too often overshadowed by the author's other works, but if you are a James fan, and haven't read this novella yet, then prepare to enjoy yourself--displacedhuma
