This is an elegantly written account of the valiant American effort to bring the Iraqi people the gift of independence and democracy. Fouad Ajami one of the world's most respected commentators on Middle Eastern Affairs made six trips to Iraq, spoke with a wide- range of Iraqis and Americans and argues, against what has become the general view, that the U.S. effort in Iraq is worthwhile and still bears a chance of success. 
Ajami has for many years been a rare courageous voice, a person of Middle Eastern origin who understood that it is the people of the Middle East themselves who must be held responsible for their situation. Part of what he does in this book is write about the reign of terror imposed upon Iraq by the Zarqawi - led Sunni forces. 
Ajami who is a Shiite speaks to a variety of Shiite leaders, and suggests that should the United States work properly, a future Shiite - dominated Iraqi regime would not fall into the hand of Iran. One of those he speaks with in this regard is the important somewhat mysterious Shiite leader Ali - al - Sistani. 
However the ongoing and non- diminishing violence in Iraq, the daily casualties, the persistence of the Sunni insurgency all suggest that Ajami may well be over- optimistic. He in a sense resists the idea that Iraq and the Middle East are not ready for a major motion towards democracy, but from what we have seen in the past years there is no special sign of development towards that democracy anywhere. He too perhaps overestimates the Iranian tentacles , their determination and persistence in working towards an Iranian dominated, American - free Middle East. 
At this point like many others initially supportive of the American effort to despose Saddam Hussein, I am not wholly convinced that there is a winning way for America in Iraq. More and more there is the sense that the Kurds in the North are going to go their own way, and the Sunnis and the Shiites also split and divide from each other. And that a new order is emerging which will have nothing to do with democracy or values of independence and freedom. 
Ajami however believes otherwise, and this outstanding book will certainly make its readers better informed about the overall situation in Iraq, whether they wholly agree with his analysis , or not. 





__________
