Flyy Girl is a great book, one of my favorites.  It is great for coming-of-age books.  I liked how it was real, not too fake.  In the book, Tracy (the main character), grows and blossoms into a sassy teenager.  It's about her life having its ups and downs, her parent's relationship, her experiences with guys, and the new craves around town, like drugs.  At some points, it was a little too vivid...but they passed quickly.  She seemed like she was fast with guys and moved into relationships too fast and ended them as suddenly as they started.  She goes through many of the regular teenage things a usual girl goes through.  It was amazing how a male author could write from a female's perspective so good.  Some of the things in the book were too soon, more like they would happen later in life.  I don't know many girls that would do some of the things she did at the same age.  It was nice to be exposed to a different life that took place in the 1980s.  Right from the get go I was intrigued throughout it.  It was something most girls my age and older could relate to.  Flyy Girl has real life situations and some were sticky and some went smoothly, Flyy Girl had a good amount of both.  She grew up in a middle-class society, is spoiled, uses a lot of the same slang people used today, dresses to impress and looked "flyy", you have the usual judgmental people in here, the guys who think they are at the top of everybody, sassy attitude, basically the same culture of today.  In the end it teaches you a great lesson nobody should forget.  I'll always remember this book because first, I read in it about 2 weeks and it's over 500 pages, so that must already let you know it's a god book!  Second, it's something I can comprehend well because I could understand.  Third, almost everybody goes through at least one of her situations.  Finally, the book shows you how good this lesson can come in handy...if Tracy never learned her lesson, who knows what would have happened to her in the book.  Its one of those feel good books at the end.  Job well done Omar
