In "Mad Ship", Hobb accelerates the pace of her epic saga of the Liveship Traders and significantly expands the breadth and scope of the canvas on which she dramatically paints the lives of her colourful characters.

The ancient traditions of Bingtown's old traders are under siege and a tariff revolt pushes Bingtown close to war with the Jamaillian government and their Chalcedean mercenaries. Internal strife and bickering between the Rain Wild families and the old and new traders make reaching a common, united front in the dispute near impossible. Satrap Cosgo, the self-indulgent and immature leader of Jamaillia is being held hostage up the Rain Wild River for his own protection and for use in negotiating a settlement to the escalating battle. At the same time, with the capture of the liveship Vivacia, Captain Kennitt establishes a growing reputation as the scourge of the ocean trade routes, a freedom fighter against the evils of slavery and Jamaillia's Public Enemy #1.

It is worth re-iterating the opinion that I expressed in my review of "Ship of Magic". Hobb's mastery of multiple plot lines that weave in and out of one another with exactly the right pacing is to die for. Her characters become so real that I swear I can hear them breathing as I turn the pages as quickly as I can manage. They mature, they change, they develop, they move, they live, love and die, they struggle, they whine, they moan, they celebrate, they laugh and cry, they succeed and fail - every aspect of their lives is astonishingly realistic. Just as it would be in the real world, it is difficult to determine whether events are driving their reactions or whether their actions are causing events to evolve. Of course, we know it is both!

Even as she becomes a more skilled sailor with every passing day, Althea develops the wisdom to acknowledge her one-time lover, Brashen Trell, to be a superior leader of men and grudgingly accepts his position as the Captain of the re-fitted liveship Paragon. Malta, the immature, self-centered and materialistic brat child of the Haven family, grows into an exciting, mature strong-willed woman who cares deeply for her family and struggles with her passion for Reyn, the scion of the wealthy Rain Wilds Khuprus family. She shares his dream of releasing "She Who Remembers", the only surviving dragon from her eternal prison inside the last remaining piece of wizardwood hidden in the old Rain Wilds city. Her missing father, Kyle Haven, now languishing in a prison of Kennitt's making, seems to have descended into the depths of a drooling madness as his hatred for Wintrow knows no limits! Even as they continue to hold Captain Kennitt on a hero's pedestal, Wintrow and Etta grow in strength and wisdom and display some stumbling confusion about their developing feelings for one another. Whether Kennitt's position of esteem will hold up through the third part of the trilogy remains unresolved and, indeed, it is clear that for now he treads an exceedingly narrow path between saint and egotistical psychopath! At the end of the story, it has become obvious that there is a deep and abiding relationship between Amber, the serpents, the dragon and the liveships, but its nature has become even more elusive and mysterious!

A phenomenal five star continuation of the epic tale which began in "Ship of Magic"! Hold onto your hats - "Ship of Destiny", here I come!

Paul Weiss
