I am not a "dieter".  Never have been. I have always been tall, thin and in pretty good shape.  While all my friends were worried about their figures, I just pretty much ate what I wanted. But now, in my mid 30's  and through 4 pregnancies, I have developed a "spare tire" that won't go away.  I was eating healthy, walking in the mountains at least 2 miles a day, and doing hundreds of crunches a week.  What was I doing wrong? 

I read Body for Life and started the exercise part of the program, but thought I would never be able to stick to eating 6X a day.  Plus, what would I do for my family?  They would never go for eating "diet food". There was no way I was going to make two sets of dinners every night. So, although I continued to eat healthy foods, I did not do what he suggested...at first.

After a few weeks of BFL exercise only, I was happy with my increased energy level and strength.  I came across Eating for Life in the library and thought since the excercising was going so well, I might as well give it a try...it couldn't hurt.  WELL, I had to go buy my own copy because after 8 weeks on the program, I have lost 5 pounds and and inch off my "spare tire".  (That's halfway to my ultimate goal of losing 2 inches to be rid of that tire.)

One thing I like is that every snack is not "veggies" like in many other eating plans.  "Eat all the raw veggies you want,", they say.  OH BOY!  Veggies are fine, but I'm sorry, I don't want to eat them four or five times a day, especially if they are raw.  Putting spinach on a wrap or having a protien fortified dip with pita chips and a few veggies is much more appetizing to me than a bowl full of raw broccoli.

Every recipe I have tried has been delicious. In fact, there are so many good choices, I have trouble deciding which ones to have on a given day.  My family eats the same dinners as I do, (From EFL) and all I have heard are compliments. I feel better that they are eating healthier too.

Some people don't like how much he touts the Myoplex supplements in the book - that doesn't bother me.  The man has come up with a good program and promoting his product gives you a springboard for substitutions.  He even says feel free to substitute. I live in a small town and can't get Myoplex Lite locally, so I use something else. If you can get Myoplex and like it, great. If not, no big deal. You can get the same results.
 
I can't believe how easy it has been to change my eating and exercising habits. I feel better and look better than I have in over 3 years.  I plan to be bikini ready in May
