Reviewed by Stephanie Rollins for Reader Views (12/06)

I really do not think that Larry James' book, "Ten Commitments of Networking," is aptly named.  Maybe it should be "Networking to Self-Actualization."  Regardless, it is a great book.  All who are in sales should read it.  Even those who just want to better themselves should read it.  

"Ten Commitments of Networking" was a breeze to read.  The first 1/3 of the book discusses maximizing your potential.  I loved that part.   James explains that self-actualized people know their purpose.  They have passion.

James discusses goals or "specific intentions" as he calls them.  He stresses the importance of writing them down.   Even more important than goals are purposes.  Goals are means to achieve a purpose.  Everyone should have a purpose in their life, but James point out that 87% of the public does not have a purpose to their lives.

"We all live our lives like a movie."  That statement made me think.  Remember the books that would have several different endings.  You were able to choose which one you preferred.  Life is like that, according to James.  "Consider the fact that your life is the way it is because of the choices you have made up to this point."  

James defines networking as, "using your creative talents to help others achieve their goals as you cultivate a network of people strategically positioned to support you in your goals.....expecting nothing in return!"  He does not mention the golden rule, but it is the underlying point.  Get people to remember you and like you by being nice.  What a great concept.  Don't you wish more people believed in it?  

James mentions practical ways of increasing one's networking skills.  I will be sure to use many of the suggested tips.  The chapter "Post Quips" was inspiring.  It was a few pages of quotations from James and others that are thought-provoking.  

All-in-all, "Ten Commitments of Networking" is a great book.  I loved it.  Anyone in sales will benefit from the practical tips.  Self-employed people will find means to increase their brand.  Larry James is like a coach for those who have to promote themselves.  As he has written, "Good coaches bring out the best in people."

