Use of the mystery tale genre illuminates this dark historical period.  I will give a thumbnail sketch of some of the events in the story.  The narrator, Bernhard Gunther, a private detective, is 38 years old.  A friend, Dagmarr, appears at the beginning and the end of the story.  In her initial appearance she is to marry Johannes, a sports flyer.  The term sports flyer is a cover for the rearmament taking place in Germany.  

Bernhard is approached by a lawyer and he distrusts lawyers.  Hermann Six, one of the major Ruhr industrialists, has suffered a loss.  His daughter has been murdered.  Grete Six married Paul Pfarr in 1930.  Three nights before the interview with Bernhard the couple died in a fire at their house.  Prior to the fire the safe had been ransacked.  There were jewels in the safe.  Six wants Bernhard Gunther to recover them.  

Pfarr had been an SS man.  Bernhard finds out that Goering might buy hot jewelry since he has a passion for owning expensive things.  Everybody in Germany was somebody different before March 1933.  In Berlin Gestapo headquarters used to be an art school.  Bernhard calls a crime reporter friend, seeking some background on the couple.  Before becoming a private investigator Bernhard had worked for Kripo, a police agency.  

A March Violet is someone who became a Nazi to go along and get along.  In the Weimar years Berlin had seemed like one of the most exciting cities in the world.  Bernhard explains that policing like autobahn construction and informing is one of the new German growth industries.  Corruption in one form or another is a feature of life under National Socialism.  Bernhard pays the pathologist for information about the manner of death of the murder victims.  The pathologist says he is being forcibly retired because he is not political.  

Rings were institutions of organized crime in Germany.  Gunther learns from an informant that the safe cracker in the case is a member of a ring.  The informant is afraid to give him information.  Banned writers are back in the shops because of the Olympiad.  Bernhard Gunther learns that Kurt Mutschmann may have opened the safe.  Gunther is picked up and brought to see Goering who tells Gunther he can lend him RED HARVEST by Dashiell Hammett.  Gunther is asked to find Gerhard Von Greis, someone who functioned as a purchasing agent for Goering and who has been missing for a week.  Bernhard Gunther learns from a ring leader that a killer has followed him and his assistant, a former newspaper reporter, Inge, to a cafe.  

It turns out that Bernhard is actually investigating two crimes since the safe had contained jewels and papers.  The deceased son-in-law possessed papers showing that Hermann Six had ties to organized crime.  Gunther discovers that Six's daughter was not killed in the fire.  Then he is in the hands of the Gestapo since Heydrich wants him to go to Dachau to trace down the papers in the control of Kurt Mutschmann.  Interestingly Kurt decided that hiding in Dachau would be a good idea and so he had done something in order to be arrested.  Bernhard finds Kurt dying in the infirmary of the camp.  Because Bernhard was kind to him, he tells him where to find the papers.  In the end Bernhard Gunther concludes that he has gotten used to living in a world out of joint.            
