First of all I should say that I'm a loyal fan of C.S. Lewis and Mere Christianity was the book that was a turning point (granted one of many) in my eventual conversion to Christianity. I won't reiterate all the praise that Four Loves has elicited so far, other than to say I agree. Mostly. 

One thing that draws me to Lewis's works again and again is how they stir my inner logician. One reviewer described having to sit and ponder sentences while reading, and that has definitely been my experience. But it's curious to me that no one has mentioned the fact that Lewis, genius though he may be, was writing books that are easy to digest, and therefore not logically airtight. 

The beautiful effect for me is that I think Lewis's mind works very similarly to my own. It's rather spooky. His immense popularity probably means that his mind was a miraculous combination of scholar and layman. (Layman only in the sense of being able to contact us, not in being one himself, although he certainly tries to seem humble in that regard). A result of this similarity, this sense that I (and perhaps many others) feel that Lewis would have been a kindred spirit, is that I find myself quarelling with his words constantly.

I loved Mere Christianity (and to a lesser extent Four Loves) because it was one of the few books that inspired me to disagree passionately and think deeply enough to find the gaps in logic. For instance, I question the very premise of his book. Why classify Love into four categories? What about the "man who loved only numbers" (and others whose main passion is primarily for their work)? Lewis might say that this is a case of obsessive, or disordered love, as homosexuality is (in his opinion). It is not one of the canonical loves. A canon which he has invented, and has every right to do, as he is the author. The point is that he raises questions, as every great writer must do. 

I also cringe at his almost sexist language. (I understand that the male pronoun is neutral; that is not my quibble). He claims to not know whether primieval women had the same bonds that male hunters had because "I can only trace the male-line of friendship". I think throughout history, the friendships of women have been neglected, and so I was disappointed with Lewis for not being ahead of his time on this subject. Can't blame him, I suppose.

Lastly, I find it ironic that Lewis had to write an entire chapter about Friendship when it is, according to him, a subject which friends do not talk about! I admit, as one who has a more fluid view of love I find his classification jarring (it leaves no room for polyamory, romantic friendships, homosexuality, etc) but also irresistable. Highly recommend.
