This truly a landmark book. Where a Mormon and Evangelical can speak clearly to each other and not being able to succor punch the other. They discuss four areas of belief: Scripture, God and deification, Christ and the Trinity, and Salvation. Both represent there version of what their beliefs on these items are very well. They then talk about what the differences and common grounds are. Both show a very great respect for the other. I certainly recommend this book to anyone wanting to know about some of the differences between Evangelicals and Mormons. This book has recieved some negative reviews. Some have attacked Stephen Robinson for not knowing his own faith. I want to mention that Robinson is a life time Mormon, has spent many more hours studying his churchs beliefs than those who think they know more then he does about Mormons. Some have attcked Craig Blomberg for not knowing how big the differneces between Mormons and Evangelicals and for allowing Robinson to give a sugar coated view of Mormonism. Trust me, Blomberg being a Evangelical scholar knows of all the little attacks Evangelicals have used against Mormons far better then those who say he does not. Blomberg was just very respectable and used commen sense in knowing that Robinson knows his Mormon beliefs better then he does. These two criticisms of the authors is done by extreme ignorance. I don't really have any criticisms of the book. I will say that I do believe the divide between Mormons and Evangelicals are not as wide as some think but that they are wider than the conclusion of this book. I would recommend also reading FARMS (Foundation of Ancient Research and Mormon Studies) Review of Books, Volume 11, Number 2, 1999. Which reviews this book. I know this a Mormon publication but the first review in it is done by Evangelicals Paul Owen and Carl Mosser. So you do get both sides of the coin in that Review. Also the reviews in this Farms Review of books does give more views and does give the book How Wide the Divide some more balance
