BOTANY FOR GARDENERS by Brian Capon is a botany text book.  If you desire scientific knowledge, then this little book may be your cup of tea. However, I have known many old-time gardeners who did not understand a lick of science who could grow anything. I realize we have a whole new generation of youngsters who lacking hands-on experience will want to do all sorts of "research" before they begin to garden, but for the life of me I can't see why anyone needs to know how a seed leaf functions to get beans to grow, and if you do too much research you will end up in an infinite regression. 

What you need is experience, and failure is the best teacher.  For those who have never seen a seed leaf on a new sprout I suppose it is important to be able to tell the baby plant from the surrounding weeds, but 1) most seed packets show how the baby plant will appear, and 2) if you have worked up the soil properly, the weeds will not take over before the baby grows its adult leaves. 

Soil preparation is the key to good gardening. Besides, as one author suggested you could mark the place where you planted seeds with a golf tee if you are afraid you won't be able to find it in the spring. If you planted a row of seeds, the old-time way to mark them is to pound a stake in the end of the row and tack the empty seed packet on it.  

Now you might think it is necessary to differentiate among types of yellowed leaves so as to understand whether or not your problem tomato plant is magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, or nitrogen deficient, but for me it is just too depressing to think of Chlorosis of the leaf, and you can end up lost in books tryinig to sort it out yourself.  

I make sure I have amended my soil with a balance of nutrients before I begin and where necessary fertilize through the growing season, though most perennials don't need fertilizing. Compost is a good place to start, however, some plants require more. If I plant tomatoes, I get a tomato food, if I plant roses, a rose food.  Seeds of Change and other nurseries sell organic balanced foods, (my sister swears by Miraclegrow). Get Rodale's organic gardening book to find everything you need to know, including how to start with good soil.

Your State Agricultural Extension Service is a good source for counseling advice. Also, many nurseries and plant tradesmen maintain a botanist on the premises. Their services are usually free, and generally, they can quickly figure out what you need to do.  

I love botany, so I bought this little book, but I don't "need" it, and you don't need a library or need to be a a botanist to grow a dandy garden, just make sure you know where to find a live person who can offer a little advice from time to time. I maintain experience is the best teacher. You can spend a lifetime trying to find the answer in a book that an experienced gardener can sort out in a few minutes.     
