`South Wind Through the Kitchen' is a collection of sections from the books of premier English food writer, Elizabeth David by her literary executor, Jill Norman, with suggestions on what to include by a wide variety of Ms. David's colleagues and professional fans.

The problem with this book is that one must decide whether it is more appropriate to review Ms. David's work or the way in which pieces of it have been assembled in this volume. As I have already reviewed most of Elizabeth David's major works that are digested in this volume, I think it is clear to me that the thing to do is judge the way in which the pieces have been assembled.

In reviewing this book, some other Amazon.com reviewers have taken the alternate course and focused on the work of Ms. David herself. In doing so, I feel they have misjudged Elizabeth David's place in culinary writing. For starters, Ms. David was not the `English Julia Child'. Ms. David and Ms. Child had slightly different agendas, which should be clear when you examine the way they go about presenting a recipe. While Julia Child is the consummate teacher in `Mastering the Art of French Cooking' and her subsequent books and TV series, Elizabeth David is the scholar and analyst. Her recipes, especially in her major early works, `Mediterranean Food', `French Provincial Cooking', and `Italian Food' tend to be briefer, but with a whole lot more explanations on the backgrounds of dishes, where Ms. David first encountered the recipe, and why the recipe is done the way it is. While Julia Child has a great way about her writing that makes reading her recipes almost as much fun as watching her PBS shows, there is not much personal material. Julia Child is writing the great classic cookbook. Elizabeth David is recording her experiences with food. That does not mean that Elizabeth David is playing the epicure, giving us a record of her experiences and reactions to food, as you find in the writings of M.F.K. Fisher. She is giving us the scholar's diary of what she has learned about her subject. The best fit to this model of Ms. David's work is her first book in 1950, `A Book of Mediterranean Food' which was literally assembled from her culinary diary begun in 1939.

This same reviewer devalues Ms. David's work as being good but not great for emphasizing fresh local ingredients. The reviewer makes the mistake of saying that Elizabeth David anticipated this great mantra of modern culinary doctrine. This principle is, in fact much older than Elizabeth David's writing. She is simply reporting it. My favorite illustration of how old and well established this doctrine is comes from the practice of the great 19th century New York City restaurant, Delmonicos, which maintained its own truck farm in New Jersey from which it got almost all its greens and vegetables in season.

If any one thing is to set Elizabeth David's writing apart from most others, aside from the sheer quality of her composition, it is the fact that she downplays rules and conventions and speaks to us about the properties of ingredients, what people do with them, and what we may be encouraged to do with them. The finest example of this is her great little piece on omelet technique from `French Provincial Cooking' that is reprinted in this book. Before presenting what is the best ever description of the classic technique I have ever read she says that the right way to make an omelet is the way you want to make it! I see the same freedom from convention expressed in many of her other writings in this book.

So how about the quality of this book? My opinion, which may or may not suit your needs, is that virtually everyone who enjoys reading culinary writings would do better by acquiring copies of Ms. David's major complete works rather than spending money on this volume. I believe the quality of her writing was so consistently high that you will not find any rough or uninteresting patches as you read the three books I mentioned above. I will say that the book `English Bread and Yeast Cookery' may not be for everyone. It may not even be for everyone interested in bread baking. But the original article is superior to the short snippets from that book you get in this volume. And, this is in spite of the fact that one of those snippets has a really excellent technique for making Irish Soda Bread, one of my favorite quickbread preparations.

This book has one very good use. If you have no previous exposure to Ms. David's writing, this is a better sampler of her mainstream work than the collection of newspaper and magazine pieces, `An Omelette and a Glass of Wine'.

As the words are from the incomparable writer, Elizabeth David, I must give this at least four stars, but as I think you are better served by reading her original works, I do not give it five stars, especially as all of her major works are available in incredibly cheap Penguin editions.
