Ah, the 1930s: "Japan annexed Manchuria and tried to conquer China, challenging Britain's position in the Far East. Italy seized Ethiopia & flexed its muscles in the Mediterranean, which, when Franco subjugated Spain, seemed in danger of becoming a fascist lake. Germany occupied fringe territitories, tearing up the Treaty of Locarno as well as the Peace of Versailles & upsetting the balance of power in Europe." "Statolatry," the worship of the state, lay at the heart of the matter. It wasn't the stock market crash of 1929 that doomed the decade, but (argues this author) governments' responses to it that engendered 'The Dark Valley' of the 1930s, particularly by the middle of the decade. The perceived panacea of state planning, instead of surmounting the turmoil engendered by 1920s stock market irrational exuberance, actually was akin to pouring salt on the wound. As "governments abandoned laissez-faire in favor of protectionism" "this encouraged 'have-not' states to create 'co-prosperity spheres' of their own, in defiance of the feeble League of Nations." In other words, "economic nationalism easily developed into political agression." Concomitant to this, propaganda was elevated to an art form. Said one participant: "And why do I insist on proclaiming that October was historically a revolution? because words have their own tremendous power." The words could easily be Lenin's, but are another coup leader's actually, uttered by Mussolini after his October 1922 seizure of power. The communists were no slouch herein, either, of course. The USSR had its show trials (after a 1934 state funeral for Stalin's potential rival, after Stalin had the later killed). And Hitler, all the while, was gearing up for war while denying it . But why did not "the truth will out" across Europe and across the sea? In Britain, blame the "moral paralysis" of the decade on Fleet Street's "habit of suppressing or 'playing down' unpalatable news." Witness how they hid the truth about Mrs Simpson's relationship with their king. "It helped to justify the newspapers' deceit about appeasement and the imminence of war," the author concludes. Meanwhile, the French were afflicted with a "Maginot mentality;" wallowing passively behind their wall, praying that it would protect them from Hitler; an affliction not at all helped by Neville Chamberlain's pacifism. (Neville was, after all, but one fine example of Theophile Gautier's maxim that one can pass through one's own age without seeing it.)   And "America further destabilized the situation by refusing to pull its weight internationally."  But it was Italy that takes center stage in this book.  Or, rather, it was the West's failure to confront Italy that emboldened the forces rising round the world to push their luck.  In particular, "The most fateful turning point in the period between the wars," (in historian B Liddell Hart's view, the author offers) was Britain (through the League of Nations) not calling Mussolini's bluff in 1935.  "Damaged by its impotence over Manchuria, the League of Nations, as many had anticipated, was destroyed by its failure over Ethiopia."  To boot, in 1937, not taking a stand against Mussolini because such could be "dangerous" (as Chamberlain argued) was akin to telling Hitler to sabre rattle to his evil heart's content.  In Hitler's own view: "The brown shirt would probably not have existed without the black shirt" (Mussolini's original fascistic stormtroopers). PS: This book has 76 pages of notes which is indicative of the thoroughness of Piers Brendon in this weighty tome.  (06Jul) Cheers!  
