Moore and Gillette postulate that there are four archetypal beings inside every man (or woman): The King, the Magician, the Lover, and the Warrior. Others who deal in archetypes add the Trickster and many more. However, it is the Warrior that has inspired the most literature and the most general attention.

Books by, among a host of others, Dan Millman and Carlos Castaneda address what being a Warrior is about and serve as a rough guide to adopting some version of the Warrior lifestyle. Grand films such as BIRTH OF A NATION, THE SANDS OF IWO JIMA, THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN, SPARTACUS, BRAVEHEART and THE LAST SAMURAI all present the Warrior in various guises and levels of development. Perhaps this should not be surprising. The Warrior has always been a central pillar in most societies. The ancient Celts, the Maasai, the Native Americans, and other cultures honored and treasured their Warriors. The Warrior really met his downfall through the development of the modern nation-state when rapidly-trained citizen Soldiers replaced the caste of Warriors who had been inculcated since birth with the Warrior ethos. 

THE AWAKENED WARRIOR is a series of essays (often chapters lifted from other books) addressing that ethos from a variety of perspectives. Contributors to this book range from Sam Keen (FIRE IN THE BELLY) to Clarissa Pinkola Estes (WOMEN WHO RUN WITH THE WOLVES). The contributors each have different (often contradictory) views on what is meant by Warriorship, and this kaleidoscopic approach permits the reader to draw his (or her) own conclusions. As a starting point in Warrior learning THE AWAKENED WARRIOR should be read in conjunction with THE CRAFT OF THE WARRIOR by Robert L. Spencer, a good introduction to the subject which provides the theory and basic concepts to go along with the practical examples in this book.

Although THE AWAKENED WARRIOR suffers from a surfeit of Political Correctness (yawn!) and New Age overtones (yawn! yawn!), the essays do invite a discerning reader to think. What greater value can a book of this nature have?   
