Although most reviewers rated this book highly, a few panned it. With one or two of those reviews, I wonder if they're even talking about the same book. Crazy ninjas? Martial fetishism? I just don't see that here.

To answer a few of the more intelligible criticisms:

The low stances pictured in this book will not necessarily get you killed or "at least whomped" in a fight. If you're even a beginner in a style that uses low stances, you can use the moves presented here. Of course, if you try these stances for the first time having only seen them in a book, you'll probably do them wrong. Well, no kidding!

Some anonymous wit here remarked that you only need such fancy techniques if you "forget how to swing a bat"-- as if wielding a stick against an unarmed person is an automatic win. This attitude will get you killed faster than any karate stance. I am a small guy of not even intermediate skill, and I've taken bats away from far larger persons who were trying to knock my head into the bleachers! If I can do it, so can some street punk who's trying to put your lights out. This book shows exactly what to do when someone grabs you or your stick and tries to turn the tables on you.

Others accuse the authors of assuming your attacker will be unarmed and won't fight back. I can only say these critics didn't read this book. The authors are very clear on these points.

As for the complexity of some of the locks and takedowns, the authors state that you cannot always deploy these when you want to, and that in the meantime you should defend yourself with basic moves. They also stress that one technique will not always (if ever) be enough to end the fight. They emphasize that the complex techniques must be executed quickly and forcefully. This takes practice. You are not supposed to just flip through a martial arts book and go try this stuff on the streets.

Gee, no kidding!

Even if you never practice the advanced techniques presented here, they are interesting. And the basic techniques are, well, basic. I say buy this book, and to its detractors, I say read this book! And pay attention this time
