Dark Assassin is the latest in Anne Perry's series of novels featuring William Monk and Hester Latterly, now his wife. In this story, Monk has taken a job with the River Police. One night while out on the river with his men, he and his crew witness the deaths of a man and a woman off a bridge over the Thames-- what they cannot decide, however, is if they witnessed a murder, a suicide or an accident. The case affects Monk deeply as he is reluctant to allow the deaths to be ruled suicide if there is a possibility that another verdict can be made so the young woman, particularly, can be buried in hallowed ground. He becomes especially suspicious when he finds that the young woman's father supposedly committed suicide a few weeks before. To ivestigate the two deaths, he teams up with Inspector Runcorn of the London Police, who had been Monk's partner in Monk's former life.

Anne Perry excels at bringing Victorian England to life-- not just the romantic aspects, but the grittier reality of every day life. In this book she focuses on the building of the massive sewer tunnels beneath the city, and the life underground. Perry doesn't flinch at showing the seamier sides of life, and she takes great pains to constantly let us know how sheltered the middle class and above are from the living conditions of the people who labor to make their privileged lives possible.

So how does Hester fit into this story? She plunges right into it, as she, also, is disturbed at the idea of the young woman being wrongfully buried in unhallowed ground. It brings back memories of the suicide of her own father, many years before. However, she approaches it from another angle, by going to see the MP who is responsible for the tunnels being built under the City of London and making the suggestion that there is a safety issue involved. The MP and his wife are both decent people and his wife, especially, readily agrees to assist Hester in finding out the truth about the young woman's death.

The mystery in this book is not particularly extraordinary, and at the end it seems rather rushed-- which is a frequent problem in Anne Perry's books-- I like to have everything wrapped up in a neat little package with a bow on top, but I enjoy these books for the richness of the characters and the glimpse of a life that is very different from today's life, but in a lot of ways is still the same. It is a pleasure to see the return of young Scuff, and there is a hint that he may become a more regular character.

All in all, this is an enjoyable book; it's not the kind of mystery that you can just read and forget. but like all of Perry's books, it is designed to make you think, and it gives you plenty to think about
