It is interesting to see such divergent opinions and ratings regarding this book.  Does it mean that a person looking for texts on craniosacral therapy should accept the average rating for this book to mean that it is middle of the road?  Hmmm....I don't think so. For the person seeking out help with their healing process, craniosacral work is only as valuable as the consciousness of the practitioner is clear and open.  Milne writes that &quot;presence is more important than technique.&quot;  He also teaches that it is important to learn the techniques well and to have a fully-equipped, expert tool bag (realizing that this may take many, many years of practice to acquire). Then the practitioner will have just the right technique that may be intuitively chosen for each individual in their own timing and need.  It is also important to realize that no one is the sole authority on craniosacral work.  If you have undertaken a journey to incorporate craniosacral work in your practice, it would be wise for you to read many books or articles on the work, including the words of Rollin Becker, Don Cohen, Hugh Milne, Michael Shea, Franklyn Sills, William Sutherland, John Upledger and others. The best way to learn the work is to wipe the slate clean before each bodywork session, before each study session, before each class, and let the cranial wave and dreambody of the person offered before you to teach you what craniosacral work is and what is needed. This includes the practitioner accessing his/her own cranial wave as a wisdom teacher.  The truth is--craniosacral work cannot be completely written down in any book or completely taught in any class.  It can only be wholly known in the place where there are no words. This book just may be the help and the inspiration for you to be able to arrive in the place of no words and no doing, the time/space where the &quot;breath of life&quot; (Sutherland) is united with the blue print for health.  The world needs this work.  Let us all learn to listen with our hearts, and keep our minds open in the process
