~The Ten Offenses~ by Pat Robertson offers a clarion call for Americans to rediscover the Ten Commandments and a summons for Americans to challenge the militant secularization of America. With the recent removal of the Ten Commandments display, from the State of Alabama, and at the behest of constitutional usurpers within the federal judiciary, the Ten Commandments and the integral Judeo-Christian morality that embodies our law is under attack. We live in a time when many agents of the State whether on judicial bench or teaching in the halls of academia deny moral absolutes. We also live in age of rising crime, immorality and broken families. Yet liberals much prefer to correlate the social pathologies afflicting us today to something trivial like urbanization or the impact of technologies. Robertson poignantly goes through each of the Ten Commandments and points out how we are called to righteousness, and that these legal principles remain the pillars of just law within civil society today.

This book is misrepresented by liberals who more often than not have never so read it. The Publisher's Weekly review is very misleading particuarly this statement: "Robertson's solution to such ills lies not in emphasizing America as a nation with an enduring Christian heritage, but in claiming that the Founders desired America to be a Christian state." I digress. Pat Robertson succinctly and accurately explains the establishment clause of the First Amendment commensurate with original intent. This book does emphasize America's enduring Christian heritage. The problem with liberal detractors of Robertson's book is that they perhaps assume that the law has no moral basis while they ignore the underlying Christian foundation within the Anglo-American common law tradition. What Robertson is advocating is not an explicit "Christian state" per say but rather it is a clarion call for the people of the United States to recognize the vitality of the Ten Commandments. "Our Constitution," avowed John Adams, "was made only for a moral and religious people."

Robertson sets the record straight over the so called "establishment clause" within the First Amendment, and explains precisely what "no establishment of religion" means. Originally, an established church was an official denomonation, which receives taxpayer financing and may conceivably have authority to restrict practice of non-established sects. Robertson describes the impact of the establishment of the Anglican church in his native Virginia in 1700s. He brilliantly articulates what the establishment clause really means commensurate with original intent by the framers of the First Amendment. He espouses the principles animating Jefferson's Declaration of Religious Liberties. The Baptists like other denominations were persecuted by the Anglicans and forced to fund the established church through taxes. Moreover, they were punished for preaching the Gospel outside of that church and on the streets. 

Robertson knows just as well as I do that regeneration, that is to say the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit that leads people to faith in Christ Jesus is what is most vitally requisite for restoring our nation's morals. Rediscovering the Ten Commandments as a nation can only be made effectual by a mass revival of Gospel preaching. As they taught us at Regent, sphere sovereignty articulated by Abraham Kuyper enshrined in the American legal tradition necessitates that the ecclesiastical authorities and the civil magistrates are sovereign in their own respective sphere. For this reason, the state cannot trump the mission of the church nor dissolute the free practice of the Christian faith. Nor can the state ignore the vital Biblical principles that animate our Anglo-American legal traditions without laying waste to the rule of law in the progress. "The secular application of the Ten Commandments," notes Chief Justice Rehnquist, "is clearly seen in its adoption as the fundamental legal code of Western Civilization and the Common Law of the United States."
