       The book "Weapons of Mass Deception, the Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq," written by Sheldon Rampton and John Stauber generally deals with the United States' current conflict in Iraq.  However, it does not deal with the strategic side of the conflict itself but rather the steps taken to get there.  This text focuses primarily on the supposed false information that President Bush and his administration provided the American public in order to gain their support.  Rampton and Stauber deal with the psychological aspects that come with preparing a nations people for war.  
	Rampton and Stauber set out to make a contribution to their field by expressing their points of view in this particular text.   The fundamental point that both authors set out to make is that the war in Iraq is a battle that is being fought unnecessarily, based on false pretenses. President Bush blatantly lied to a nation in order to better serve his own needs while asking thousands of men and women to give their lives in the process.  Both authors make it their business to make clear the fraudulent steps that President Bush and his administration took in an effort to coerce a nation into believing that going to war with Iraq was the right thing to do.  Furthermore, it is Rampton and Stauber's goal that after reading their work, American citizens will analyze carefully and be more skeptical of the different types of media that they come into contact with.
	There are several areas covered in this text regarding the war in Iraq and the deceptive measures employed by President Bush while doing so.  In fact, Rampton and Stauber claim that Bush was involved with the invasion of Iraq even before he was elected into office.   Bush's key officials advocated the invasion all along but opted to wait until September 2002 to inform the public, through what the White House expressed as a product launch.  This is simply the Bush administrations attempt at selling the war in Iraq to the American public through a well thought out public relations operation.  The White House representatives apparently used propaganda along the lines of misinformation and constant replication in order to create the false notion that Iraq was behind the September 11th terrorist attacks on the United States.  Additionally, there were allegedly forged documents which fabricate the claim that Iraq possessed vast supplies of destructive weapons.  Apparently, Bush's public relations firm facilitated an opposition group known as the Iraqi National Congress, which contributed largely to the decision to go to war.  While these lies were taking place, the American news media was entirely occupied with the propaganda being provided and continuously kept repeating White House communications.  
	"Weapons of Mass Deception, the Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq" is put together by authors Sheldon Rampton and John Stauber.  Both men work for the Center for Media and Democracy; this is a non-profit association that Stauber himself founded in 1993 in an effort to observe and expose deceptive public relations campaigns and other assorted propaganda distributed by corporations and governments.  John Stauber is a longtime activist who has worked in the field of public interest, consumer, family farm, environmental and community organizations at the local, state, and national levels.  Co-author Sheldon Rampton is a graduate of Princeton University and has worked as a newspaper reporter, activist, and author.  Rampton and Stauber are both clearly opposed to the work that the Bush administration has done while in office.  In fact, based on the work that they have done with this text as well as past work, both men appear to be against any type of governmental or public relations group that misinforms the public on any issue.  Rampton and Stauber present a strong argument throughout their book, supporting their points of view with documented facts.  In addition, both authors remain true to their feelings and points of view in an uncompromising fashion; perhaps this is the most concrete element to their text.  The only flaw, if any present in this book is that both men are partially biased because of their dislike for President Bush.  It is likely that a supporter of President Bush would not be so critical of the tactics he has used in recent years.  
	This text seems to be quite useful and a positive addition to work in its field.  It offers readers and consumers an alternative source of information that is able to rival the media.  In addition, to it being an alternative source of information, it is written by well educated and experienced men who support their adamant views with concretely documented facts.  Therefore, this text is not merely two liberal men running their mouths about issues they are not well versed in, but a brilliantly put together political argument.  Lastly and perhaps most importantly, Rampton and Stauber attempt to relay an important message to the public; that they should never settle and accept information that the media and government give to them.  There is always the right to question the government and related associations when the public is being misinformed
