Language, Truth and Logic by Alfred J. Ayer was originally published in 1936.  The current text published by Dover is a re-release of the 1946 edition - unchanged from the original except for an additional introduction by the author.  Ayer is a well known and respected mid-twentieth century philosopher.

Language, Truth and Logic is the first detailed English work articulating the logical positivist thought of the Vienna Circle.  Logical positivism major focus was on the issue of what constituted a meaningful statement and subsequently what was the proper role of philosophy.  In the positivist view meaningful statement were either tautologies (statements that are true by definition e.g. mathematical truths) or propositions that could be proved/disproved by empirical investigation.  They argued that propositions that did not adhere to these criterion were meaningless or non-sense (questions of religion and ethics would fall into this category).  As a result of this restrictive interpretation of truth/knowledge they saw philosophical discourse relegated to a largely logical-linguistic role - as opposed to any type of metaphysical speculation. 

The genesis of Positivist thought can be found in the early twentieth century works of Russell and Wittgenstein.  Although this school of thought continues to have some advocates its popularity has declined markedly during the latter part of the twentieth century.  Logical positivism demise stemmed from a range of reasons, not the least of which was its limited intuitive appeal and its apparent lack of internal consistency.  With regard to the first point, to some, positivism seemed to artificially remove many of life's most important issues from discussion; e.g. ethics, God and beauty.  While from a philosophical perspective positivism appeared to be self referentially inconsistent, i.e. its assertions appeared not to meet its own criterion (i.e. the assertion of what was a meaningful statement was itself not meaningful).  Positivism's advocates have attempted to escape this latter charge - but these efforts have been largely unsuccessful.

Despite the fact that Logical Positivism has fallen out of favor (some would say relegated to the dust bin of history), Ayer's remains a classic exposition of this important movement in twentieth century philosophy.  I recommend it to all serious students of philosophy.
