As a pastor who studies for sermons in the Greek text, there are times when I turn to Kittel's. It usually has a lot more information for a specific word than I need for whatever it is that I'm working on.  Sometimes the entries are difficult to read, other times they are absorbing and one can spend a lot of time just reading.

For example, on a common word that is studied, like AGAPE, Kittel's gives quite a bit of material.  A typical way to use this tool would be to augment or deepen a study on a particular word.  For example, there is some dispute on Romans 8:18 as to how to translate the phrase 'EIS HMAS'.   Well Kittel's has 8 pages of information on how EIS is translated in a variety of contexts...most of which does not matter for Romans 8:18. You can quickly find the comments on a passage by using the Kittel's index.  Just look up Romans 8:18 in the index and it gives you all the references throughout the series where Romans 8:18 appears.  Go to the volume that has the entry for your main word and there you will find all the key entries for whatever you are looking for.  So in our example, one would see that Volume 2 has one entry under Romans 8:18 (Volume two has EIS as a word entry in it).  So instead of having to read the entire article on EIS, you can go to just the pertinent paragraph to see what he says there.  

There is no other place in my library where I can find the amount of information on a simple preposition like this, or the depth of coverage.  It is truly amazing.  On top of that, some of the finer commentaries will comment on the article in Kittel's.  In this example on Romans 8:18, Moo points to Kittel's in his 1100 page NICNT commentary on Romans.

It is a 10 volume set, and this review is tied only to Volume III (I think...at least Amazon was not showing me the other 9 volumes). One should buy all ten volumes.

Other lexicons that may be valuable for your library include Ceslas Spiq's.  I also use Louw & Nida Semantic Domain study.

Let me make a comment about the review which criticizes TDNT for 'exegetical fallacies'.  I think this reviewer is overly zealous to apply Carson's exegetical fallacies.  I use Carson's book and recommend it highly (see my review on it).  But to suggest that Kittle commits exegetical fallacies galore is not at all in line with my experience in this massive Theological Dictionary.  It is an unfair criticism.

I think if your profession involves studying God's Word in depth, and especially the NT Greek, then you really need this series in your library so that you can compare your findings with other lexicons to this one.  All the great scholars do, so that tells you something.

I highly recommend this series.  Go for it
