Bob Andelman's WILL EISNER: A SPIRITED LIFE is a
superb study of a great literary genius. Drawing
enormously from a vast wealth of previously
unavailable resources, the M Press book is made
all the finer by the biographer's decision to
focus on the man and, in doing so, draws a more
acute, highly intimate bead on the influential
work Eisner produced across the greater 20th 
century, and beyond.
That being said, I question the logic of the
Publishers Weekly reviewer, who felt that
Andelman's decision to place Eisner's life
as the primary focus, rather than fixate
upon his technique, would somehow limit 
the book's readership to comic book
fandom.
One would think that just the opposite would be
true; that a book principally aimed at discussing
technical aspects would have come across as far
too in-clubby and far less audience-spanning for a 
biographical work. Too, considering that Eisner's
personal life has almost never been a topic for
audience discretion, one has to wonder what the
Publishers Weekly reviewer had in mind for a more
appropriate biographical subject? 
One ponders if that reviewer was the same one
who wondered if the sobering subject of Eisner's
final work, THE PLOT, was appropriate for the
medium of comics?!! It might do such critics
well to actually read the material they're
reviewing, and gain some wisdom  -not
stereotypes-  about what they purport
to talk about.

Few places could provide a better start into
the inner workings of a classic storyteller
than this book. Drawing from direct interviews
with Eisner, family, friends and professional
associates spanning some 60 to 70 years, this
book is at once the historical goldmine and
an anecdotal treasure house.
Those who have long wondered about Eisner's
art, cultural background, and how he parlayed
all this into a life's work which crosses
idioms and sets standards even now, will
find this book to be a magnificent
revelation into the nature by which 
pioneers are born.
Those who know nothing about THE SPIRIT, the
connections with generations of Sequential
storytellers from Kubert and Kirby to Miller
and Gaiman, or the vast reshaping of an art
form some 30 years after "retirement", will
simply find a most absorbing read about a
man who grew up poor, hungry, and oppressed,
yet refused to live his life as a victim. 
A SPIRITED LIFE is the tale of a talented
man who made his aesthetic mark upon the
ages, and made a lucrative living without
selling out.

How Eisner did this in a field still 
largely known for robber baron business
practices, while exuding a charm and
grace which complemented the succinct,
no-nonsense demeanor of his images and
words, is the magic which comprises
Andelman's book.
WILL EISNER: A SPIRITED LIFE. Clearly,
a read which is more than worth the
lifetime that many have waited for
its pages to be filled, and its 
heart-stirring tale to be 
wondrously told..
