	I really enjoyed The Natural. It was a really easy book to read and it really kept me interested because of how Malamud wrote the story about Roy's life. I used to play baseball a lot so I can really relate to this story well and what goes on in Roy's life. I like the way Malamud made it more realistic by talking about Roy's personal life as well as his professional life so it wasn't just some sports book that would not be as interesting. The title fits Roy's life perfectly, because he is a natural athlete at the game of baseball, as you would find out in the book.   
 	Just the overall storyline made me want to get back into baseball. I liked how it showed Roy going through hard times even as a superstar. He was focused on playing baseball, his dream. But he encounters all kinds of problems throughout his life, like women, and choices, so he gets sidetracked, and things change. It really helps you relate to everyday issues. This book really helped teach me a lesson about being selfish and listening to other people. I also like "Wonderboy," Roy's special bat. I could tell from the start that Malamud was using that as a symbol of Roy's passion for the game in the story. Memo was also like a weapon for Roy. When he was with Memo he would do good, but when he wasn't he would go into slumps. It goes to show you how the love for a woman can really affect your life. I was kind sad the way it ended, and how such a great player could come from so far and then just have then just completely collapse. But I can see how it was the perfect ending because if he had made it any different then it would just be another one of those "hero, happy ending" kind of stories, that have no point or meaning to them at all.
	I had seen the movie The Natural first, which got me into reading it in the first place. The movie was really good also, but I have to admit reading the book seemed like I was watching Roy's life happen. It was really easy to read Malamud's writing and after this book I am encouraged to read another one of his books. I had never been familiar with Bernard Malamud, but he really grabbed my attention with this one. The Natural really tells a great sport story, but also teaches a good lesson in life. So what is better than a book with sports that helps you in life? Just kidding. The Natural is a really good book. I would really recommend this book to everyone because it is a great story that is fun to read and really keeps you thinking.
