This book is the eleventh book in A Series of Unfortunate Events.  This book follows "The Slippery Slope" and precedes "The Penultimate Peril."

We began in story where "The Slippery Slope" left off.  The Baudelaire orphans, Violet, Klaus and Sunny, on her way out of babyhood, are floating down the Stricken Stream on a broken toboggan.  Faster than you can say "Captain Nemo," a periscope with a submarine attached appears.  Aye, aye, a submarine it is!  The submarine, named QueeQueg, is crewed by Captain Widdershins, his step-daughter Fiona, and Phil, whom we previously met in book the fourth, "The Miserable Mill."  Captain Widdershin's motto is "he who hesitates is lost."

The submarine and its crew head for a mysterious location marked on the charts as "GG," hoping to find the sugar bowl with the secret.  Others are in the ocean too, and the submarine barely escapes an octopus submarine and another, larger, and more sinister submarine.  Eventually the crew of the QueeQueg finds GG, which turns out to be the grim grotto.

The Baudelaires and Fiona don diving gear and float toward the grim grotto, hoping to find the lost sugar bowl.  Unfortunately, the children discover a virulent fungus and are trapped in the grotto for some time.  The children seek the sugar bowl, but to no avail.  Eventually the children return to the QueeQueg, but the deadly fungus of the grim grotto has accompanied Sunny and she has but an hour to live.

Just when you think things can not get worse, the children discover Captain Widdershins and Phil have disappeared from the submarine while they were in the grim grotto.  Worse yet, Count Olaf shows up in the octopus submarine, along with other unsavory characters.

Will the children escape the Octopus submarine?  Will they find a cure for Sunny Baudelaire in time to save her?  What happened to Captain Widdershins and Phil?  Just where is the sugar bowl and what secret does it contain?  Who is the mysterious person in the taxi at the end of this book?  Most of these questions will require at least one more book to resolve, and the reader will need to persevere a while longer.

This story is about average for the series.  The author went on a little long on a particular issue in several places, and Captain Widdershins was somewhat obnoxious.  Count Olaf's new, improved laugh is also annoying, as are the other unsavory characters in Olaf's crew.  However, I, like many other readers, are to the point where I have to find out how Daniel Handler, aka Lemony Snicket, ends this series.  Only two books left to go!

Enjoy!
