	"Bull Run" is a great book for kids and adults. It is fast paced at times and slow at others. This book tells the lives of a child, a black man, a general, a doctor, and much more. There are sixteen different characters in the book. Bull Run takes place during the civil war. Some characters are on the Confederate side and some are on the Union side. This book would fit in to two genres. Realistic fiction and Historical fiction.
	I really enjoyed the book "Bull Run" because I learned about the Civil war. My favorite character in Bull Run was A.B Tilbury, because he was full of energy and was  happy a lot of the time. Even when the mood wasn't so joyful! At one time or another all the people are feeling thankful and/or sad.
	After you read this book try to get an audio type of the book. I like listening to the story on tape. It really helped me under stand the story better. After reading this book I want to read more Historical fiction about big wars and fights in history.
	Some reasons I didn't like this book are: At the end of each character you want to read on and see what happens to the person. But you have to read about other people first. Also at the end, I think the author should have kept going and wrote more, or even make a second book to tell how the characters lives end up.
	My three favorite phrase are: "I was eleven years old and desperate to kill a yankee before the supply ran out." From Toby Boyce, "By gravy, it was a glorious feeling! At last we were marching off to battle!" From A.B Tilbury, and "To be a negro living in the midst of whites, unknown to them, is to be a ghost spying on the living." From Gideon Adams.
	I never really enjoyed reading books about history. I learned a lot about the war by reading Bull Run. I didn't like the book when we first started reading it in class. But after we read some of Bull Run, then I started to like it much more.
	 The mood changed in the story a number of times.  First the mood was happy because the war did not start yet. After the war started the mood changed  to sad and hopeless for some people. Some people stayed happy and overjoyed. After the war  the people were happy and overjoyed, and some were still very sad. 
	My favorite part of the book was when A.B Tilbury was to go to war because he was hyper. If you need a good book to read. Then you should pick up this book and start reading it. I really liked it and if you read it I think you will too
