The 'big guns' among amazon.com reviewers have made their pronouncements. The character of Maisie Dobbs, young private investigator created by J. Winspear, is universally admired for her rise from a youth as housemaid to graduate of Girton (a Cambridge University college), with benefactors ranging from a nun to a doctor, and a society hostess.  The London of the early 1930s is evoked: when political  unrest sometimes involved those sympathetic to changes in Germany - and the lower classes struggled with what today we call 'a tight job-market'  and the tentacles of poverty.
Readers will painlessly absorb social history as various threads of  "Messenger of Truth"  are untangled.

Former Girton classmate Georgina Bassington-Hope hired Maisie to quiet B-H's unrest following the police decision that the death of  twin brother Nick B-H was accidental. He was a successful artist, haunted by WWI and his own experiences in the army and later, as a propaganda artist. Yet who has pointed to WAR as the pivotal crux  of the mystery?  The upper class lives depicted lie almost within the realm of fantasy when War was mostly covered by the written word. Those on 'the home front' were as benumbed as today's television viewers who cannot take in the gravity, the ugliness, the God-less-ness of WAR.  It is ironic to read about artists sent to 'the front' to paint men fighting & dying against backdrops of slogans urging: "DO  YOUR PART."

After Nick B-H falls to his death while mounting a significant show of his art, his centerpiece paintings are not located, the bohemian B-H family members contribute more question marks than they help solve, the rugged beaches of south England are shrouded in a mystery harking back to old smuggling stories, and departmental jealousies among police & excise officers toss yet another stick in the fire. Through it all, Maisie is strengthened by meditation practices, belief in her intuition, & a trust that "time (is) the most efficient editor" . . . (excellent advice for all).

Nick B-H, brought up to a life of studied casualness, retreated from the war's remembered horrors to the western expanses of America. "He painted the War out of his soul . . . " As Maisie interviewed family members and friends & studied the artist's work, she grew in admiration for his talent and was not intimidated by differences in class and knowledge of the arts. Her own abilities strengthened her grasp of the story's several mysteries, and helped her to "wear ___ down the hard shell that time & circumstances had wrapped around clarity."

The untitled and provocative masterpiece could be titled "The  No-Man's-Land  called War."  It revealed why someone thought it should never be made public. Isn't that enough Mystery?  Most mystery novels don't challenge the intellect, or one's philosophy of War and Peace.  Jacqueline Winspear has done that in "Messenger of Truth" and her timing isn't bad.
