I don't know if Heinlein had read Lord of the Flies before writing his book, Tunnel in the Sky.  I think it unlikely because they were released within a couple years of each other.  The plot is very similar: a group of boys and girls are stranded with no hope of rescue and have to learn to govern themselves.  In Lord of the Flies, the students are prepubescent (to avoid the "hormone" issue) while Heinlein tackles it head-on: these are hale and hearty men and women from 16 to 22 who are sent on a survival test (because it's science fiction, on another world).  They are allowed whatever they want on the test, but the best students know their best weapon is between their ears, and go through mainly with knives and other non-perishable material.  However, their "warp gate" home never materialises at the end of the test, and they have to eke out an existence, assuming catastrophe at home has left them stranded forever.

Overall, I think Heinlein deals with the situation far more elegantly (and realistically!) than Golding. The point of both books is not whether they make it home, but how they adapt to their situation.  They are trapped more irrevocably than the island-dwellers in Lord of the Flies ever could be - a way gate requires an atomic pile to drive it.  The kids set decide to set up a "colony" and make the best of their situation.  Heinlein allows them to dislike each other, to fight, to marry, and in every way act like real people.  Sure, they still talk in early Heinleinese (they sound like they escaped from the set of Leave it to Beaver), but this was originally conceived as a juvenile.  The first few chapters are the worst for this - once the hero lands in the new world for the start of his test, Heinlein changes tone to a more readable and less saccharine style.  There are also some weird inconsistencies at the beginning, such as the students being unwilling (or unable) to form teams for the duration of the test - wouldn't you be stupid not to form a team?

However, once the story starts going and the kids start organising themselves into a society, Heinlein does a masterful job of protraying a realistic and interesting resolution to the problem.  Alliances shift, people don't like each other but get along because they have to (or die), people pair off in marriage, some are sexist or racist, etc.  Heinlein does tend to philosophise in his books, but it's mercifully absent (for the most part) here - he lets the situation and the characters speak for themselves.  It makes for a fast read (the book is only 200 pages anyways), but an enjoyable one.  It's somewhere at the level of Starship Troopers and Double Star for weight of ideas and level of activity (there is no sex per se and little violence), but probably does not contain the level of insight of these two.  Having said that, it's certainly above the young adult stories like Between Planets (for which I have an irrational love) and Rocket Ship Galileo
