Overcoming your Alcohol, Drug, and Recovery Habits is an excellent book.  It is thorough, scientifically sound, and effective.  It is geared mostly to those who have had experiences in 12-step constant recovery, but would also be very useful and helpful to those who have not had personal experiences in the 12 step programs.

Some reviewers seemed to be offended or bothered by the Desena's  constant criticism towards AA and its offshoot programs.  Those reviewers missed the point, I think, entirely.  AA has-- by it's OWN account-- only a 5% success rate. Some studies have put this rate at between 2-5%.  Additionally, because AA adheres to the faulty disease model regarding alcoholism and addiction, AAers believe they are ALWAYS sick and ALWAYS in need of neverending recovery, meetings, contact with their sponsors, contact with other self-professed sick people, ad infinitum.  AA is dogmatic and encourages members not to think, just do the program.  If members continue to think, and question and criticize the AA credo, they are accused of being in denial. It's a lose-lose scenario.

Desena is attempting to educate the public about the truth of 12 step recovery programs.  Common belief is that AA works. The truth is that it doesn't work for 95% or more of those who try it.  Actually, it might be a lot less than that because that 5% are only those that remain members.  Those members that remain aren't counted because they remain sober, they're counted because they remain members.  AA expects these members to have occasional relapses.  So, we're not even talking about a SOBER 5%, necessarily. We're just talking about membership. 

Harvard University estimates that those that quit without AA have a success rate of between 77-82%.  

People need to know the truth, and the truth is hard to find unless we're lucky enough to be exposed to authors such as Desena, Peele, Schaler, Trimpey, Ellis, Fingarette, Horvath, etc.  The mainstream media accepts the disease model and AA as the "only" effective treatment as do our schools, courts, etc.  The word has to get out that not only isn't AA the only effective treatment, it's the LEAST effective treatment.  To go a step further, it's not just the LEAST effective treatment, it's downright detrimental treatment!  Imagine being told that you are powerless, have no control, are doomed to suffer from alcoholism and/or addiction your entire life, NEED AA to survive, must go to meetings on a daily basis, must do the steps, accept God into your life, have a spiritual awakening, admit your failures to others, spend your social time with other self-professed sick people, must put your sponsor above your family, live only for today (not set healthy goals for your future), are doomed to death or jail without AA, are doomed to relapse in the future, put the fellowship first at all times, stop thinking independently, stop questioning, listen to the same stories over and over again, etc., etc.  Imagine this.  This is OBVIOUSLY detrimenal, not helpful.  Yet, most of us accept this propaganda as truth.  In this book, Desena mentions Hitler's concept of the big lie: repeat it often enough, and people will believe it.

The only criticism I have of Desena's book is that his model to quit your addiction is identical in every single way to Jack Trimpey's model in Rational Recovery.  Not only is it identical (Trimpey calls the addictive voice the "beast", while Desena calls it "the parasite"), he even uses the same words to describe the addict's feelings (the word ambivalence in a specific context-- not how it's commonly used). This was a put off.

However, at the same time, I found the book very helpful, and the rest of the book was full of useful information, so I gave it 4 stars.  Additionally, as good as Jack Trimpey's book is, it hasn't been updated in awhile and some of the information in it regarding his Rational Recovery program is a little outdated, so this is a good book just because it's newer and the information that Desena has IS up to date.  Still, the approach to quit IS so identical, I'm surprised that Desena had the nerve to state it was original.  It would have made more sense if Trimpey and Desena collaborated on a new book.  The other thing is, if you are just interested in the basic program to quit drinking and not the deprogramming aspect of the book, you can find most of the information on Jack Trimpey's site for free.  He offers the basic program (which is identical to Desena's) on his website at no cost, and you can get a great idea of how it works.  Desena's website is really jsut a sales pitch for the book. 
