There are a lot of reviews on this site that criticize Caro for making Means of Ascent a seperate volume, saying that there isn't enough here for a standalone book, that he rehashes too much. After finishing the book, however, I think nothing could be further from the truth. Let me explain. 

The first book provides the essential context and builds LBJ up, allowing the reader to see the burgeoning of his political power and domineering personality. But it is in the second book, when he is driven to the absolute brink, when he "had to win" in the "all or nothing" 1948 Senatorial race vs. Coke Stevenson that his unique character bursts into full, dazzling bloom. It is this ratcheting up that makes this volume so necessary. 

Caro's brilliant depiction of the epic battle between LBJ and Stevenson is like something out of Shakespeare, American-style. We have on one side, LBJ, who in a lot of ways is the dark version of the American story: a poor boy who rose from nothing by any means necessary, selling himself (often lying) and working himself (and everyone around him) to the absolute bone in order to get ahead; someone who gave everything he had in order to get the ultimate prize (and took unlawfully what he didn't earn). On the other side, in the almost too good to be true character of rancher-statesman Coke Stevenson, is much of what we cherish about the American character: self-reliance, hard work, dedication to principle, humbleness, duty. In this clash of the new vs. the old, of Johnson's do anything, say anything brand of media driven, money fueled politics (sound familiar?) against Coke's principled campaign in which issues and the real positions of the candidate actually mattered, we know who eventually won and the consequences such a victory had, but we can't help but wish that maybe the old way could have had one last hurrah. And that maybe the age of substance-less, meaningless politics that LBJ ushered in with his 1948 race could have been postponed a few years. You get the feeling that perhaps Caro feels the same way...but I digress. 

Whether you agree with his implied politics or not, in Means of Ascent, it is unarguably clear that Caro has written an unparalleled legal and political thriller. Reading what actually happened in that fateful race between Johnson and Stevenson, I had to continually remind my self that YES, this REALLY DID happen in AMERICA just 50 years ago! The outright stealing of votes, the legal maneuvering, the armed showdowns between Mexican  bandits and Texas Rangers (!!!)...it all seems like something out of some Third World banana republic, but it all happened, right here in America! And the final courtoom scenes will absolutely enthrall you, better than anything Grisham has ever written, for sure. 

In the end, by reading this book not only will you learn what really happeend in the 1948 Senate election and how the current brand of media based politics came about, but you'll get a glimpse into the rather undemocratic way power works in this country. Sure, things have changed since then, but I have a feeling "the people" have quite a bit less power than they believe, and for this lesson alone, Means of Ascent is priceless. 

Do yourself a favor and ignore all the naysayers. This is an essential volume of the series, and rightfully deserves its place as a standalone work. EXCELLENT!
