On October 21st, 1805 the important naval battle of Trafalgar took place. During it two major events happened: the British obliterated a combined fleet of French and Spanish ships; and Lord Nelson who was in overall command was killed. the book claims that this is "The Battle That Changed The World".

As the 200th anniversary of the battle approached, many people released books telling the story of the battle and is various components. While this book is not one of the great ones telling this story, it is clearly written and does an adequate job of telling its story.

Since the book is intended for a general audience who may not know much of the period or the specifics of naval warfare, the author intersperses his telling the story of the battle with many tangents in which he tries to place his story in the context of the times. While this is a logical and reasonable approach, I felt that it actually distracted from this particular story. Perhaps this is due to the fact that I have read many naval novels set in the time period (Hornblower and Bolitho series in particular) and so was aware of the kinds of issues that Adkins brings up.

In the early chapters, Adkins sets the strategic stage with the British fearing an upcoming invasion of their island by the French and Napoleon doing his best to get an invasion underway. We are then told of the preparations in Britain to repel this invasion (this is where one of the odd things is told - many of the items being put in place were not completed until years after this battle and therefore were not really necessary any more). We are also told about the lives of British sailors and officers and their conditions at sea. Anyone of this century who reads these may find these conditions to be completely abhorrent and may wonder why the sailors did not forcibly rise against them, so Adkins shows that those conditions were at times superior to what these same people could expect on shore and were at least equal to shore conditions.

Nelson's career and life at this stage as well as some of the other main officers are also laid out in very brief pages. Those who find this tickling their interest in learning more about these characters will be forced to look elsewhere for the more detailed information available as this book just sketches things out.

The middle of the book is dedicated to the battle itself and is interspersed with maps and diagrams that aid the understanding. This was well done as there were almost 60 ships involved and several of them had either identical or very similar sounding names (Neptune, Neptune, and Neptuno, for instance) so without the diagrams one would get quite lost.

The battle lasted almost six hours and the author does a very credible job in my opinion of explaining what happened during it as well as the import of various things. Again he takes some detours as when he explains the positions and clothing of various jobs on the ships, the reasons why the surgeons operated as they did in the part of the ship that they did, and the names of each of the decks. There are also good explanations of the state of medicine at the time.

While reading the descriptions of the battle, I was struck with how bloody and gory the ships became and how shot up everyone was. The final tally of the battle was that a dozen and a half ships of the French and Spanish capitulated to the British and one French ship blew up while none of the British ships were defeated but many of the ships were completely dismasted, almost all were punctured and were taking on water, and everywhere was there death and despair. Imagine my surprise when at the end of the book the author presents statistics that point out that only 17% of the British sailors were casualties. I was sure during my reading that the casulaty figures must have been greater than 50%!!

A second major component of the story is the aftermath. As it turned out, Nelson was shot early on in the battle and died about midway through it, but he knew that a storm was coming. Well the storm did come and it turned out to be a powerful hurricane that resulted in more damage, destruction, and deaths than the battle itself! Many of the damaged ships were lost to sinking by the waves or being dashed against the rocky shoals of the coast of Spanish so that only about three or four of the captured ships made it back to British ports.

The finaly portions of the book cover the immense importance placed on the loss of Nelson and contrasting it with the fate of the others who took part in the battle on all sides. The author points out how the British King and Government purposely played up Nelson and his heroism as a substitute for taking care of the rest of the people. The final irony in the book is that we are told that Napoleon had already decided not to invade Britain at that point and was involved in the Austerlitz campaign while the battle took place. So, why is the book sub-titled "The Battle That Changed The World"? The author attempts to explain this by showing how France concentrated on the European land mass while England built a larger and larger empire. Stating that this was the direct result of this one battle is stretching it in my opinion.

I enjoyed reading this book as it was a story told well. Those amongst us who are looking for a readable introduction to Trafalgar and its import will do well by reading this book. For those of us who know something of the period and the events of it, this book yields little new information. Experts in the field will probably find the necessary superficiality of it distracting. So, read it yourself and enjoy!
