When I was in middle school, I was perhaps a little too much in love with a Nintendo football game called Tecmo Bowl.  The game was great.  I played out an entire season of NFL games using the video game teams, recording wins, losses, which teams made the playoffs, and keeping a running total of the player's stats for the season.  I would even pretend to be the announcer, and sometimes recorded my commentary (painfully inane if I ever listened to it afterwards).  Then I would go out in the back yard and reenact the highlights from each game.  In many respects, I was similar to the protagonist of Robert Coover's The Universal Baseball Association, Inc.: J. Henry Waugh, Prop., who devises an intricate version of simulated baseball that he plays in his kitchen with dice.  The difference is that I was twelve.  Henry is fifty-seven.

To escape from reality into a world of imagination is regarded as endearing and encouraging in children - in adults, it seems pathetic and disturbing.  As the novel progresses, we see how far Henry has taken his obsession: he concocts life stories for the players, composes songs supposedly popular in the alternate reality inhabited by the UBA, conducts pretend interviews, writes newspaper articles, lines his shelves with record books, and even conflates events of his own life with the lives of the players - and vice versa.  What could drive a man to do all this?  Certainly not a love for the game.  In fact, Henry admits that real baseball bores him.  Possible explanations seem to be desire for control, intense boredom, overwhelming feelings of isolation, or simply inability to mature and face the problems of adult life.

However, we are not given a simple explanation for Henry's habit, nor are we led to believe that his actions are to be thought of in a negative light.  In many ways, Henry's Association is an exemplification of mankind's drive to create.  This issue - is Henry hiding or creating? - forms the most compelling theme of The Universal Baseball Association, as well of providing much of Henry's internal conflict.

But Coover isn't content to deliver a novel with a simple theme, or ask simple questions - and therein lays both the novel's greatness and its folly.  We encounter lengthy stream-of-consciousness passages, during which Henry's mind loses the ability to distinguish creation from reality.  We hear Henry presented as a god, complete with powers over life and death.  We are treated to parallels between creation, destruction, war, and the curious relationship between omnipotence and impotence.  The entire last chapter sounds like Absurdist Theater.  As we near the end, there can be no doubt that Henry is an overt schizophrenic, and yet, like Humbert Humbert, Henry has a way of making sickness seem normal.

In the opulent extravagance of the novel lies a certain genius.  The flights of fancy taken by Henry's supple mind suggest meaning on a wide variety of levels.  Not all of it succeeds, especially when Coover digresses into the topic of sex.  Still, the book succeeds overall, both as narrative and as commentary on the nature of man.  By the end, the association becomes Henry's entire system of meaning - his way of exploring good, evil, purpose, and nihilism.  Perhaps answering metaphysical questions using dice is absurd, but perhaps not.  As Henry reflects, "You roll, Player A gets a hit or he doesn't, gets his man out or he doesn't.  Sounds simple.  But call Player A 'Sycamore Flynn' or 'Melbourne Trench' and something starts to happen.  He shrinks or grows, stretches out or puts on muscle....  Strange. But name a man and you make him what he is.
