HOW I CAME INTO MY INHERITANCE by Dorothy Gallagher is a story of family, or rather, episodes from a family history. About halfway through, I realized that Dorothy's immediate forebears had a history much similar to mine. Around the time of the Bolshevik Revolution, her maternal grandparents and their youngest children emigrated to the U.S. from the Ukraine, following their three eldest children sent over previously. About the same time, my paternal grandparents emigrated to America from Romania with their youngest offspring, the oldest son having gone on before. In both cases, additional children were born in the States. There was a shared experience there, however nebulous, that made me appreciate this book more than I might have.

Unlike the five-star SLEEPING ARRANGEMENTS by Laura Shaine Cunningham, HOW I CAME INTO MY INHERITANCE is less of a warm and fuzzy celebration of family. The latter is perhaps more interesting than engaging, more poignant than charming. Each exhibits its author's own brand of humor, Gallagher's being a bit drier. Cunningham's pivot is always herself growing up, while Gallagher's stories often focus on her mother, father, and various aunts with only tangential reference to herself. Gallagher's have a discontinuous feel, although there is a broad, overlying time frame. 

The politics of Dorothy's parents and aunts is perhaps unusual among written memoirs of the U.S. between the world wars. They were passionately Red. Lenin's photo had a place of honor on the wall; Uncle Joe Stalin and the victories of the Soviet armies against the Nazi invaders were much admired. During the Depression, capitalism in America appeared to be moribund, and the family was prepared to welcome the new socialist world order. Oddly, Gallagher doesn't mention how much of this revolutionary spirit she retained. Apparently, it just failed to take, as the political and religious passions of parents often do in their offspring.

For me, HOW I CAME INTO MY INHERITANCE hit its stride and was at its most interesting when Gallagher recounts her early efforts as a writer, first scribbling dubious stories about celebrities in such scandal mags as "Screen Stars" and "Movie World", forerunners of today's checkstand tabloids. Then, there was the agony of her first book, ALL THE RIGHT ENEMIES: THE LIFE AND MURDER OF CARLO TRESCA. Saddest is the second-to-last chapter, "The Last Indian", about her youngest aunt, Rachile, otherwise mostly ignored up to that point. Rachile outlived all of her siblings, dying convinced that she'd been terribly wronged throughout life by her brothers and sisters. 

HOW I CAME INTO MY INHERITANCE suffers greatly from not including a section of visual snapshots. While Dorothy can see with her mind's eye, the reader needs to be shown faces. While it might not have made the narrative more joyful, it would've put flesh on the past and given it a more balanced perspective. (I remember my own maternal grandmother dying as a bitter, unhappy old woman. It's good that I have photos of her cheerfully and vibrantly young. One forgets from where the aged come.)

It appears to me that writing this book was the author's way of seeking closure. In the very last chapter, she recounts visiting Romania - as near as she could get to the Old Country - five years after her parents' deaths, and writes in the last paragraph:

"And now, in this odd and wracked corner of the world, on this hill ... grief slipped away. I felt happy as the day is long."
