I had heard lots about this book: some said it was 600 pages about whales, others said it was their favourite novel of all times. The first usually were teens and the latter were usually my literature teachers, or writers I read. 

To be fair, yes, there is a lot about the whales; but that is not boring, Melville always manages to connect that to many other things (example: the head of the whale and the face of God) and whatever happens, his style is always witty and fun. I can never quite believe what I read in Amazon reviews; honestly. Some have said this novel is dry. I'm sorry but this book is so thickly rich of everything that I can hardly perceive how it could ever be dry. As to being boring or slow-paced, the fact that the whole novel is divided into over 100 short chapters does speed up the dynamic as short chapters always do.

It is true that you should not expect a "classical" novel in the classical sense of being "usual", for Moby Dick is not your average novel. It has a narrator who is a character in the story, but he is nearly inexistent as such, and seems to melt in the universe he describes for us. The text itself moves from the story to encyclopedic entries on whales, and back to the story proper. Personally, I never minded that, and quite enjoyed every chapter of it; but it's likely that some don't appreciate that sort of narrative freedom.

It is beyond me, too, that one should "need" a year to read this book. I read it in two weeks, and was by no means reading everyday. The first chapters are really funny, I thought. I was expecting something terrible, given what others had warned me of, but really it was fun. It sure is a demanding book, but then, great books require great readers. And by demanding, that can mean just being curious and/or interested. 

This novel is a true hybrid of sorts, combining elements that aren't usually thought to cohabit very well; you could perhaps consider it a patchwork, but for all one can say on it, it remains a cool read! I don't suppose I'm in the majority, but that's really how it felt to me: quite a cool read. It made me curious about the whaling industry and how exactly humans did to kill those sea giants; it may not sound thrilling to some, but if you pause and consider the animals concerned and the sea, and all that, then you realise (I think) how deep this all is. I believe you probably need to be on the same wavelength as Melville to enjoy his book; if the sea evokes nothing to you but tons and tons of water, then you may not revel in the reading of the novel. On the other hand, if the sea seems to you some metaphysical poem, then you will most likely appreciate Melville's grand effort
