
	Bengelsdorf illustrates the Cuban revolution as the most fervid attempt of fusing idealism with pragmatism. However, she also stresses the improbability of their revolutionary success. 
She describies the revolutionaries as a "straggly band of men trooping out of the mountains." She adds the sentiments of revolutionary leadership as she quotes Che Guevara, "institutionalization was neither `urgent' nor `vital' nor `decisive' given the early needs of the revolution." The 
depiction is critical as Bengelsdorf attempts to express the quixotic naivete of the revolutionaries, illustrating Cuban leadership as an attempt to establish the purest forms of Communism. Through the actions of Che Guevara and Fidel Castro, Bengelsdorf presents another example of challenge for a government in consolidating power and institutionalizing bureaucracy without contradicting the Marxist socialist project. Despite repeated attempts to lead a classes society, 
Fidel Castro found that even small doses of participatory democracy resulted in lethargic product output, and meager economic gain unable to sustain the demands of the masses. Bengelsdorf elucidates this topic with Castro's efforts to decentralize in the 70's. He stated, "All production and service units serving any given community-that is, the grass roots-must be controlled at the grass roots level." For the first time, the masses were responsible for their own domestic affairs. 

	On the other hand, the construction of bureaucratic order slightly increased efficiency, but indirectly stratified class system with a vanguard ruling elite. Despite the difference of the two revolutions, Bengelsdorf inculcates the conception that the Russian and Cuban Communist experiments were attempts at achieving the purest forms of Marxism, fit with democratic principles. Over time, these attempts developed into more practical constructions, relying on more rigid, and inelastic order of structural organization, alienating the charisma of the Communist vision and dispensing with the political activism of the masses as an unattainable ideal. Benglesdorf examines the influence of the most visionary of revolutionaries, Che Guevara: "...his writings by and large disappeared. They were referred to only infrequently and, 
significantly enough..." According to Bengelsdorf, the intentions and ideals of the revolution become elements of yesteryear. The revolutionary body remained without the support of its former ideals. For a revolution that begin with the greatest hopes, and the most idealistic views with frenetic emphasis, the pure Communist-Socialist vision eroded into an insipid yet enduring government structure.			

	The book adequately illuminates the topic of socialism and how democracy has strayed as a critical element of its formula. It examines the intentions of Marx's philosophy  
while juxtaposing its intellectual features with its real world applications; this clears up misconceptions concerning the successes and failures of inspired revolutionary action. Most 
importantly, it explains why communism has failed to maintain itself as a legitimate practice without collapsing due to its lack of order. However, there are inherent weaknesses within Bengelsdorf's argument. The Cuban and Russian revolutions show similarities as they struggled to cope with both the philosophy and reality of their respective Communist projects.  However, Bengelsdorf fails to explain or take into account the natural discrepancies within the two movements, differences that might render his use of parallelism as illogical. By natural discrepancies, I am referring to the philosophy first introduced by Montesquieu in the mid 18th century with his Spirit of the Laws. There are clearly natural and human factors to be taken into account. For example, the sheer size of the Soviet Union dwarfs the 700 mile island. When Bengelsdorf illustrates Castro 
as a proactive and charismatic leader visiting his island's many regions, he fails to mention the regional and cultural difficulty of accomplishing the same thing in Russia. Furthermore, Castro never had to deal with competing factions, and as Lenin did with the Menshevicks.
	
	Overall, I find Bengelsdorf piece to be mostly geared toward historians as academic writing. However, it efficiently covers a few key concepts of Marxist theory and how it has been 
implemented into various Communist constructs. It helps social revolution students understand the difficulty of translating a 19th century philosopher whose work was conceived as a solution to his temporal struggles, to its practice in the 20th century where the context of revolution and social change has developed considerably.
