It is difficult to imagine a better, and more powerful, telling of the tragic tale of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, immortalized for most of us in the movie Jaws by Capt. Quint.  Most reviewers here have told the story so I don't need to get into great detail, but essentially this book tells the story of the greatest naval disaster in U.S. history.

The Indianapolis embarked on a mission so secret at the end of WW II, virtually everyone aboard was kept in the dark as to the true nature of the voyage.  The ship set out from San Francisco in the summer of 1945 carrying the uranium for the atomic bomb to be dropped weeks later by the Enola Gay on Hiroshima.  After dropping off its lethal cargo on the pacific island of Tinian, the Indy sailed off for a rendezvouz at Leyte but was sunk by a Japanese submarine en route.  About 300 sailors died right away, and of the remaining 900 or so that hit the water in ill-provisioned rafts and life jackets, only 317 survived.  Those 900 sailors floated on the ocean for days,  baking in the equatorial sun, and battled sharks, delirium, hypothermia, dehydration, fatigue and sunburn.  Many jumped off rafts and swam to their doom, tired of the endless wait for rescue, or convinced that they saw hotels or a rescue ship up ahead in the distance.  

Stanton's book combines painstaking research (revealed in his detailed notes and bibliography) with first person narratives given to him by several survivors, especially Dr. Haynes and Marine Gil McCoy.  The stories they tell are sometimes heartbreaking, sometimes uplifting, always fascinating. Some of the suspense of the book is lifted when one realizes that the front and back covers of the book contain a listing of all personnel on board, with an asterisk next to each survivor, but you get an idea soon enough who survived anyway since some of the accounts of the disaster had to have come from the mouths of survivors.

The book also discusses the aftermath of the sinking, including the remarkable and controversial decision to court-martial Capt. McVay for "failing to zig zag" even though the Navy failed to provide him with updated, classified intelligence reports of enemy submarine activity in the area.  In addition, the JAG's own witnesses (inluding the enemy submarine commander who sunk the Indy) confirmed that the silly practice of zig-zagging a giant cruiser would not have mattered.  60 years after the sinking, survivors (and school children) are still fighting to clear McVay's name.  

I had just come back from a trip where I had occasion to tour a U.S. Aircraft Carrier, the Midway, right before Memorial Day, and to speak first hand with some of the Navy officers who served aboard that ship. This story really hit home with me, and Doug Stanton is to be credited with turning a magazine article project for Men's Journal into a well-researched, captivating labor of love.  He was clearly deeply moved with the stories that he heard from officers Haynes, McCoy, Spinelli, Payne and others, and it showed.  Nice job.
