Something I appreciate about a good teacher or a good writer, is the ability to make complex ideas understandable and abstract ideas practical. Bruce A. Ware has accomplished this as he writes on perhaps the most complex and misunderstood doctrine of the Christian faith: the Trinity. In Father, Son & Holy Spirit: Relationships, Roles, & Relevance, Ware explains the doctrine and its history, and then focuses on each person of the Godhead, explaining their distinctive roles in the accomplishment of God's will, and yet maintaining their unity of essence as One God.

Bruce A. Ware is Senior Associate Dean and Professor of Christian Theology at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky. The book stems from five talks Ware gave at a pastor's conference in 2004. Though first directed toward pastors, it is not just for pastors. Anyone with basic Bible literacy will benefit from it. It would make an excellent gift for new believers or anyone struggling to understand the doctrine of the Trinity. If I were to make a list of books that every Christian ought to read, I would include this one.

The subtitle of the book: Relationships, Roles and Relevance, reveals its basic structure. Each person of the Godhead is studied in regards to His relationship to the others, to His role in accomplishing the will of God, including the salvation of His people, and also in terms of how these truths are relevant to our understanding of and relationship with God. Ware's thoughts on relevance and application are very profound and thought-provoking. I found myself reflexively setting the book down to ponder the wonder and majesty of our most glorious God and how the relationships within the Godhead are imaged in His relationship with us, and our relationships to one another.

With its approximately 150 pages of text, the book can be quickly read; but it deserves to be pondered and slowly digested. The application section of the chapters on each person of the Trinity would make excellent material for personal devotional time. The book could also be used profitably by study groups. Perhaps Dr. Ware will bless us soon with a study guide.

This book is a gem
