As Louis Menand points out in his astute introduction, most people today are familiar with THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE through the John Frankenheimer film--which was a critical and box office failure when first released in 1962 and which only came into its own with a 1980s reevaluation.  The Condon novel, however, was both a critical and commercial success from the first instant of its 1959 publication, and although it has been in and out of print over the years it has never been less than critically well-regarded and tremendously influential.

Readers who come to the novel in the wake of the 1962 film or the later remake are in for a mighty shock.  The story is essentially the same--a study in cold war paranoia concerning a Korean War hero who has been secretly programmed by Communists to precipitate an American political coup.  But both the characters and the tone of the novel are utterly unlike anything either the original or the more recent film version suggests.

The characters are sick, twisted, perverted beyond imagination, often sadistic, occasionally drug addicted, and in one very notable instance given to fits of incest; the tone is that of a 1950s pulp thriller filtered through the blackest sense of humor to hit the page since Nathaniel West penned the utterly poisonous MISS LONELYHEARTS and DAY OF THE LOCUST in the 1930s.  Whatever virtue exists is comparative at best, and innocence does not exist at all.

Condon is not a great writer--his style is too derivative for that--but he is a remarkably clever one, juggling idioms and shifting tones as he moves from the faintly improbable to the ludicrously impossible, sweeping away whatever objections you may have to create a portrait of a society where the strong consume the weak as a matter of course and indeed, without significant personal malice.  It one very big, very bitter pill, and when all is said and done you'll roll your eyes, shake your head... and then, with an unwilling laugh... admit that if the full truth was ever made known about American politics, this would probably be pretty close to it.

Strong stuff for readers with imagination, but even the most hardened should brace themselves for the ride.  Recommended!

GFT, Amazon Reviewe
