Basically an interesting, revealing if not alarming book, with loads of data, some striking graphs, and several silly cartoons. The authors have a "bullet point" approach to the topic, with short chapters (30 chapters in 247 pages) and multiple headings within each chapter. The data themselves are quite compelling, even if the writing style is not.

And there are three non-trivial significant problems in the analysis.

In their fifty-item affluenza self-diagnosis test, they perhaps inadvertently mix in wealth creation and savings priorities and activities with consumption, when they cite concern over one's financial investments (#17) and goals (#43) as signs of consumption. That's just wrong. The book would benefit from more attention to the creation of wealth and its effective use instead of a heavy-handed, almost singular chastisement of consumption. At least the authors acknowledge that time, comfort and happiness are forms of wealth, that wealth is not just all of a person's accumulated, tangible stuff. And they don't write much, as I recall, about spiritual wealth. But saving for financial goals by monitoring one's investments are counter-consumption.

The use a misleading graph (Chapter 20, p. 167), where they use 280 parts per million (ppm) of carbon dioxide as the baseline or horizontal axis, greatly overstates the climb of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere from 280 to 380 ppm in the past 200 years. Worse, they use the year 1000 as the vertical axis, cutting off a not insignificant portion of the baseline. This is the same deceptive, biased practice the authors accuse the advertising industry of using. There was no need to exaggerate and there are significant points lost for doing so.

The "answers" devolve into traditional liberal solutions: more maternity leave, more sick days, more vacation, more day care, higher taxes on wealth creation, and universal health care. A carbon tax is not a bad idea, but why stop there? Why not tax all forms of foolish consumption? And why tax people for making money? In fact, American spends almost as much of its GDP on public health as do the countries with "free" public health. In fact, America's obsession with and expenditure on health care is a sign of attention to the things the authors laud: person well being and comfort. And, as introduced above, we need to improve our wealth creation and, contrary to what the authors recommend, the use of "uncommercials" is not much of a solution. Let's not leave the solution to the same medium that accelerated us down this path
