Orphans Preffered is a very interesting book.  The ad captured my interest on the back of the book: "Wanted: Young, skinny, wiry fellows, not over eighteen. Must be expert riders, willing to risk death daily. Orphans preferred. Wages--$25 per week." 
It must have been as interesting in the day it was written and published, if it ever was.  Corbett makes it clear what was factual about this saga of the pony express, and what was, or likely was, fiction.
I found the stories from the former pony express riders to be the most interesting part of this book.  I feel that Corbett does a very good job at connecting this fragmented footnote in American history, particularily when a great deal of the original records from the Overland Express company are no longer in existence.  He collects information from many sources, and it is clear that a great deal of research went into compiling the final text.  As a reader I found it most enjoyable, however, one is left with a sense that a part of the story is missing, yet what that is exactly is elusive.
The chapter included from Mark Twain's notes on 'Roughing It' tells a story in itself about the admiration these riders received at that time.  The story of the Pony Express is part of the overall romantic saga of the old west that is an extremely captivating subject.  Man's tenacity to keeping in the communication lines over hostile and unsettled country is perhaps the most admirable and exciting part of that era. 
Corbett's details on the evolution of the Pony Express are facinating!  He clearly did a great deal of research.  Perhaps this book in time will have revisions as new information is found in forgotten attics and old storage trunks across the midwest.  
Perhaps the most facinating part of this overall story is the fact that the Pony Express existed for such a short time in history, yet its legend has continued and grown over a century.
This is quite an enjoyable read!  I recommend it to anyone facinated with the Pony Express
