When I first began reading Queen of the Damned, I was rather disappointed and almost gave up on it. That is usually how Rice's beginnings make me feel. I felt that way with the first, and even with the second book. The idea of having Lestat write the book in third person using all the devices and techniques of a writer seemed somehow unpleasant to me, but that was much easier to swallow because of Lestat's special psychic powers which enabled him to act like a truly omniscient narrator who is also a part of the story, as a character.

After the somewhat unsavoury beginning, the book unfolds an original structure. The first part consists indeed if many short stories, literally, where everything seems to converge towards Lestat's impending concert. I was a bit confused at first, because of the many characters of subplots, but all of this eventually comes together in a more single-lined story.

The story itself will please you if you are interested in the origins of the vampires. I think that part was that part I enjoyed most in the whole book. The romance between Lestat and the Queen didn't move me at all, and it's not entirely impossible that some power is lost due to the scattered attention the narrator is forced to share between the many characters in the novel.

Some have criticised Akasha's plan for the world as stupid, and it is. But it's important to keep in mind that this fits perfectly with everything else Akasha has done and thought. That type of Darth Vader/Hitler plan to "save" the world always ended in disaster. A solution that is too simple is never a good solution; Rice makes it very clear in the book and so I find it very unfair to criticise her negatively on that point. 

Now I will comment on Rice's style. This is something you find in the previous two books, and somehow it still irritates me. In short, she's very descriptive and lavishly rich about it. I do keep in mind the idea that vampires like Lestat or Louis are keen on beautiful people and things, and that this esthetic moral shows through the very narrative, but in the long run it can become tedious. I mean, there's not always a point in knowing exactly what the furniture looks like, how it was made, what fancy colours it's made of, and so on. It does give the text this classy elitistic esthetic touch, but personally I get quickly tired of it. It annoyed me in the previous two books, and it annoyed me again here.

The other thing that annoyed me even more was the kind of fake oralism Rice abuses. The question tag, for one thing, is most irritating. "After all, I was a vampire, weren't I?" That's a made up example, but that type of question tag comes back so often that every time you see it it's like one of those nervous gestures people make without realising. And naturally, once you've realised it, you can never not see it. The other thing was the "they were nice, those houses" and other such doubling of the subject. That comes back often too, and it gets annoying for the same reason mentioned above. However, if you didn't mind it up to now, you probably won't mind it one more time.

That is why I give it 4 stars only. The beginning was hard, and I had to adopt a sturdy attitude to keep reading. Then I was intrigued by the whole dream thing. But it wasn't before somewhere in the middle that I really became interested in the actual story. I wasn't crazy about Stan Rice's poetry quoted at the beginning of each chapter, and most often I didn't get the point of quoting his poems (though this most likely is blameable on me alone, I didn't spend time reading the quotations back or anything).

The intricate set of stories can be a bit confusing at first but eventually it turns out fine, and together. I appreciate Rice's take on how vampirism was born and spread; in an interesting way, this echoes the spreading of the Holy Ghost, especially when you remember that Christ was the spirit made flesh, and all that. 

I had been warned that this was the worst of the first three books, but I must say I found out otherwise. I'm still not insane about Rice's prose style, but that third book in the chronicles is very readable. In fact, I think I will soon indulge in another book of hers, so that must be a good sign, because I wouldn't go for another 400 pages and more of her richly descriptive prose if there wasn't some good stuff in her work
