It's a daunting task to capture on paper a spirit as inventive as Albert Einstein's especially within a lifetime so riddled with contradictions, but author Walter Isaacson, quite a Renaissance man himself as an accomplished biographer and president of the Aspen Institute, finds a kindred spirit in the fabled scientist. When Isaacson chronicles Einstein's creativity in not only his scientific problem-solving but his idiosyncratic approach to life, the book becomes an affectionate, engaging read, as the author alternates fluidly among diverse topics and events. It only gets bogged down when Isaacson attempts to explain the theories of relativity in layman's terms without the use of visual cues. Granted this is not designed to be a textbook by any stretch, there is still a huge void felt when it comes to grasping the significance of Einstein's findings. All the same, we simply take for granted how paramount Einstein's findings are, while Isaacson more successfully reveals the psyche of a man whose intellectual reach knew no bounds.

As proof of his expansive mind, Einstein was only a 26-year old patent clerk when he expounded the special theory of relativity, which held that all measurable motion is relative to some other object and that no universal coordinates exist to make sense of it. He also made his most famous discovery at the same time, that mass and energy were different manifestations of the same thing and that their relation could be summed up by the equation E=mc (+2), where c is a constant, the speed of light. As if this was not enough, Einstein even more exuberantly revealed his temerity with the far more complex general theory of relativity. It took him eight years to extrapolate the findings of his special theory to cases of accelerated motion and thereby reconcile Newton's laws of gravity with his own precepts of instant gravitational effect across any distance. In this instance, it isn't the scientific finding that intrigues Isaacson so much as it is Einstein's willingness to forego his own ego and embrace the superior mathematical skills of Marcel Grossmann and David Hilbert to fulfill his general theory.

Eisntein's incautious approach to science was his genius, and it derived from two opposing forces, his German-bred discipline and his resistance to authority. Although he married twice, Einstein made no bones about the fact that he was really married to the universe in all its wonder. As he hobnobbed with the cultural glitterati from Charlie Chaplin to Upton Sinclair (and the author provides some amusing anecdotes), his kindly manner could never mask the detachment he truly felt from his environment. One of the most interesting aspects that Isaacson reveals is Einstein's political perspective as a Zionist and how his exalted reputation allowed him to speak against the rise of Nazism when other Jews were unequivocally silenced. Moreover, his later years are chronicled as an ongoing love affair with America and the value he placed on the freedom of self-expression. He took full advantage of this value with his quick wit and amiable manner but most of all, through his sheer genius. It feels like Isaacson has researched his subject well, and the result, despite some flaws around the presentation of the scientific findings themselves, is a most deserving biography
