+++++

This eleven chapter book (with seven excellent illustrations) by U.K. Astronomer Royal (a title bestowed upon a distinguished astronomer) Sir Martin Rees is about the following:

(1) Cosmology (branch of astronomy concerned with the origin, properties, and evolution of the universe)
(2) Theoretical cosmology (that establishes models which attempt to describe the universe's observed properties)
(3) Speculative cosmology (which is based on hypotheses).

These are large topics that can be incredibly complex and detailed but Rees manages to explain these topics in only 160 pages!  As well, the language involved in explaining these topics can be very technical but Rees manages to reduce the technicality resulting in a book that's easy to follow and thus that's "intended for general readers."

I agree that this deceptively concise book is written for the general reader.  However, for those not used to this kind of material, I suggest reading this book slowly since Rees cuts out extraneous detail.  Whether you are used to this kind of material or not, you'll find that this book offers a stimulating and accessible account of new discoveries, and perceptive insights into cosmology.  In fact, this book is so well-written, that according to Rees' internet site, this book is being considered for translation into twenty languages!

Rees, in the last paragraph of this book, summarizes its contents: "A theme of this book has been the intimate links between the microworld and the cosmos...Our everyday world...[shaped] by subatomic forces...owes its existence to our universe's well-tuned expansion rate, the processes of galaxy formation, the forging of carbon and oxygen in ancient stars, and so forth.  A few basic physical laws set the 'rules'; our [universe's] emergence from a simple Big Bang was sensitive to six 'cosmic numbers.'  Had [any one of] these numbers not been 'well-tuned' [or precise enough], the gradual unfolding of layer upon layer of [the universe's] complexity would have been [suppressed]."  That is, "there would have been no stars and no life."

This book has a framework that is centered around the above six cosmic numbers or as Rees states: "[T]his book is the story of six [numbers] that are crucial for our universe, and our [that is, biological life's] place in it."  What are these six numbers?  Three of them relate to forces in the universe (two of these numbers are basic forces while one of them deals with an "unsuspected new force"); one number is concerned with the basic "texture" of the universe; and two deal with the properties of space itself.  As already mentioned, all these numbers have a precise value that allow our universe (and us) to exist.  Rees asks: "Is this [precision] just...a coincedence?  Or is it providence of a benign Creator?"

Besides learning about these six critical numbers, the reader will learn much more.  Some other things you'll learn about are antimatter, atomic structure, atoms, neutrinos, quarks, the periodoc table, the importance of hydrogen, deuterium, and helium, biological evolution, dark matter, black holes, cosmic background radiation, protoplanets and planets, galactic clusters, the strong nuclear force, extraterrestrial intelligence, particle physics, quantum theory, relativity theory, supernovae, and superstring theory.  You'll read about such people as Einstein, Arthur Eddington, Michael Faraday, Richard Feynman, Galileo, Newton, Stephen Hawking, Fred Hoyle, and Edwin Hubble.

At the end of the book, Rees asks more questions: "Are there an infinity of other universes [called collectively the 'multiverse'] that are "badly tuned," and therefore sterile?  Is our universe an "oasis" in a mutiverse?  Should we seek out other reasons for the...values of our six [cosmic] numbers?"

My only minor complaint (and I'm nit-picking here) is that in chapter one Rees states the value of one of these six cosmic numbers.  (It is a one followed by 36 zeros.)  Instead of expressing this number in scientific notation, he actually writes out all the zeros.  I reasoned that by doing this he was attempting to convey a sense of the immensity of this number.  However, in chapter three he does the same thing.  Why? Writing this long number out once was quite sufficient.

In conclusion, this book offers an accessible account of the forces that shape -- everything.  You'll find this book to be an enjoyable and provocative intellectual adventure!

+++++
