After reading the Alice books, I never imagined Carroll could write a literary failure.  Unfortunately, as the introduction of this book so clearly states, Sylvie and Bruno is a literary failure.  Why?  Perhaps it's too much of an adult book.  Perhaps the confusion of the first few chapters throws off too many impatient readers.  These possibilites are certainly plausible.  But what a shame!  The work itself contains so many instances of wonderment that I can't name them all.  Like a true craftsman of storytelling, Carroll masterfully walks the line between dream-like fantasy and all-too-familiar reality, swiveling between these two opposing states of being whenever the urge strikes.

One would venture to guess that the narrator is afflicted with Alzheimer's disease.  That is, until he actually brings back a tangible souvenir from the dreamworld in the form of a rare Indian flower bouquet, incapable of surviving a lengthy transport to merry old England.  Upon participation in this scenario, the open-minded reader begins to question the composition of reality.  Are dream worlds filled with magic out there eluding us?  Can it be that our steps in the real world are never terribly far from landing on a little fairy?  The ponderment of such superstition is indeed rare today, but perhaps it shouldn't be.

Yes, extraordinarily deep questions are raised in this strange book where "actors" do somersaults during dramatizations of Shakespeare and gardeners run around "watering" plants with watering-cans as barren as the Sahara Desert.  As anyone can see, Carroll didn't seem to have any problems coming up with wild stuff to write.  I particularly enjoyed the rumor of the crocodile walking on its forehead.

I think the one thing Carroll never gets enough credit for is his use of humor.  Sylvie and Bruno is quite funny.  I couldn't help laughing at Bruno's story of, "a Mouse and a Crocodile and a Man and a Goat and a Lion."  And the Baron's Embassy chapter is comedy gold.  Carroll was truly an enlightened individual.  I wish we had more like him today.

Carroll was also quite Biblical, and that's evident in this book.  While strongly promoting faith in the Bible, he heavily criticizes the practically (I think) defunct method of filling up every Sunday with forced, nonstop preaching, and the far from defunct method of promising financial wealth to people who give.  He notes that England's ability to endure such tactics for a whole century while still believing in God is a credit to the goodness of the people there.  Unfortunately, a century after the printing of this book, the belief isn't quite as strong as it used to be.  Perhaps Carroll's criticisms had some validity.

Carroll had the gift of innovation that is so terribly difficult for most people, including myself, to grasp.  What extraordinary value his works have!  It's a shame Sylvie and Bruno has so much value and yet so little popular appeal.  I just wish Carroll could have shortened the story and wrapped it up in one volume.

I give it four stars objectively, but I like it much, much better than many books I've given five stars too.  Definitely one of my all-time favorites.

Oh, and I am pleased to note the following: Carroll writes in the book's introduction that he's very against a technique he calls "padding" - which was later perfected by producer Robert Lippert in the horribly long film Lost Continent
