"'Tis"..(Hardcover)
A most enjoyable follow up to his childhood memoir "Angela's Ashes", Frank McCourt, in "'Tis", now lets us in on life as a poor young immigrant, trying to make his way in the jungle of NYC. Being told over and over, stick with your own kind(the Irish immigrants), Frank as is his nature, does things his own way, which don't always work out to well for him. 

When we last left off in Angela's Ashes, Frank had just arrived, eager for a new life in America(the place of his birth). Nothing seems to be going right for him. He is naive in the ways of the world, and learning some hard lessons.Still plagued by bad eyes and teeth, he lands a job, cleaning up in a hotel.He sees the college students, with their movie star smiles and looks, and yearns to be among them. With the war in Korea going on, Frank gets drafted and right away gets himself into trouble by just holding to his beliefs. Stuck as a company clerk, he masters the skill of typing! Later he manages to get into college,even without a High School diploma, which really speaks to his tenacity, and after much hard work between school and jobs requiring much physical labor, he graduates and becomes a teacher. He also somehow manages to marry the most beautiful girl, the envy of all in his college days. 

So now as an adult, with the responsibilities to his family and students, he makes us laugh and cry with the most wonderful funny and poignant stories of trying to learn the rules of life in New York, of being an employee, the military, a college student, a husband, and teacher.We are introduced to some new people that have affected his life in some way. He also goes back to Ireland to visit, and we are reintroduced to some of the people who shaped his early life. His mother is still very much a part of the story, and it is hard not to get emotionally involved with their relationship. 

We are still treated to his refreshing style of writing, in which he lets us in on all his thoughts, and subtly pokes fun at the ways of society and the system of life. It is the tone that is different. As well it should be. In "Angela's Ashes", we saw the hardships of life through the  forgiving and eager eyes of a child. It made that book maybe just a little more special. Now the look is that of first a frustrated young man, and then a more experienced adult. There are times, you may not like what he does or says, but this is his life story, and it is honest and life affirming.

This book is also available in paperback.Enter 0006551815 into the book search and it should take you to the paperback selling site. 

I'm very much looking forward to the third book of this beautiful memoir, "Teacher Man". If you loved Angela's Ashes, you will surely want to know what has become of Frankie McCourt. He will take you on more of his life's adventures,another enthralling read,and leave you smiling.....enjoy....Laurie 


