OK, I came across this book in one of James Ambuehl's lists of books containing mythos related fiction.  It was published by Marietta Publishing in 2002; I don't know anything about the publisher except that they also published New Mythos Legends and I think the owner hawks his own publishing secrets to others who want to open a small press.  Cover price is listed at $27.99 but it is available for about $10 less on Amazon.  It is a handsome hardcover book with slipcover.  The very nice cover art by Mark Harris shows a golden haired viking type warrior wearing what looks like an Iron Cross medal, holding a blood stained rune covered sword, standing over some German soldiers he has defeated.  Alas it has nothing to do with any of the stories contained inside.  Production qualities are high.  There are a fair number of scattered typos throughout the book, mostly minor spelling errors.  I recall one case where column alignment/paragraph spacing was an issue.  Nothing detracted from reading the book.  Editors were James Shimkus, Byron White and Allen Towers.  I don't know anything about them.  A one sentence description of each story appeared on the slipcover leaves; otherwise there were no author notes or introduction.  It had 216 pages. 

Minor spoilers may follow.  The book had 13 stories. 

Manifest Destiny, or the Testament of a Continental Regular by James Chambers - in the Revolutionary War a scout has (after a rather long exposition) an encounter with the wendigo and sees his frozen city.  I liked the description of the wendigo. 

Military Deferment by Don D'Ammassa - In WWII a U boat expedition discovers some talismens that grant immunity from death (but not pain) on a south seas island.  Another decent read. 

The Laughing Man by CJ Henderson - A wounded Viking sacrifices himself to cover the getaway of some fellow raiders who are carrying away the treasure.  This pleases the Valkyries.  Tightly written and enjoyable. 

The Schism by Jeffrey Thomas - Earth merges with an alternate universe earth where the inhabitants are quite alien and a savag war ensues between the two populations.  Nice concept, well written as you might expect.  Thomas indulges in his penchant for sex-with-aliens-scenes. 

War Stories by James Moore - In WWII American soldiers discover the nazis are creating a race of super soldiers.  Fortunately (maybe) the US has its own version.  Tightly written and enjoyable, once you get past the ho hum exposition. 

Of Rain and Fire by Jeremy Shipp -  in an ecologically challenged future, samurai fight with honor for what is right.  A pretty good story, maybe a tad too long. 

The Tale of the Spanish Prisoner by James Chambers - An ancient evil soldier/creature/minion who appears dead but is not lies in a black coffin that is transferred from ship to ship in the days of tha Barbary pirates, with unpleasant results for the sailors.  The story is revealed in counterpoint with a description of a modern day symphony.  The actual horror part was OK; I found the musical descriptions tedious. 

Laying to Rest by Steve Mosby - Offbeat, after some modern conflict, an American team is exhuming graves from a mass murder.  A bizarre contagion may be spread by contact with the bodies.  Well written. 

Military Mite by Mike McCarty and Mark McLaughlin - a misguided scientist develops carnivorous aggressive arthropods for the military.  Short, predictable, but an OK read. 

The Spitzbergen Raid by Peter Garratt - A pilot on a spy plane on a German battleship is party to an expedition that uncovers an ancient city frozen in the arctic that had strange 8 foot tall inhabitants.  This topic is dealt with only obliquely until the very end of the story; mostly it is a recounting of the pilots experiences in the war and the scientists/SS members he keeps crossing paths with who are seeking the city for Hitler.  Decent enough read although I wish more space had been devoted to the discovery or history of the frozen city itself. 

The Chattering of Tiny Teeth by Tim Curran - ghouls are thriving in the no man's land between the trenches in the Great War.  Decent enough read; I liked the ending. 

Glow Worm by Bruce Gehweiler and CJ Henderson - 2 groups of mercenaries meet in an ancient castle to conduct an arms deal.  A massive stone gargoyle comes to life.  OK, predictable, decent read. 

Verst 7156 by Michael Wiecek - set in the time the US sent aid to the White Russians at the end of WWI.  Depicts the hopelessness of the US soldiers there quite well, but not anything really supernatural or stange happens. 

My overall impression is the book has a generous sampling of well written, well, strange war tales.  It did not really grab me, but I enjoyed reading it.  I guess, maybe, engaging but not much true horror?  It is a bit overpriced but available for large mark down from Amazon.  What I did not find was anything of particular interest to the mythos collector!!  I would advise the mythos completist to try to sample it before paying hard earned Cthulhu bucks.  General collectors may proceed with confidence.
