This collection of Future History stories was published originally in 1950.  There are six works of short fiction here, which were published between August of 1938 and September of 1940, with the exception of the title story, which was first published in this collection.  This book was recognized by fans in the Astounding/Analog All-Time Polls in 1952, 1956, and 1966 where it was ranked 4th, 6th, and 14th respectively.  There are some minor differences between this edition and the original edition.  The stories in the original edition were in chronological order with respect to Heinlein's Future History, but for some reason they were put in a different order in this edition.  The original edition also had an introduction from John W. Campbell, Jr., which is not included here.

The stories here are all very good if not great:

"'Let There Be Light'" is about a scientist who creates a cheap and efficient method of converting the Sun's rays into energy.  When the establishment tries to take control of his invention, he finds a way to fight back.  It was first published in "Super Science Stories" under the pseudonym Lyle Monroe in May of 1940.

In "The Roads Must Roll", moving roads have been created to efficiently transport people without the need of dangerous automobiles.  A conspiracy of unsatisfied workers shut down one of the roads in an attempt to gain power, and lead a social revolution among the road technicians.  This was first published in "Astounding", in June of 1940.  It tied for 28th on the Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll of Short Fiction in 1971.

"The Man Who Sold The Moon" is one of Heinlein's D. D. Harriman stories.  In this novella, D. D. Harriman is trying to gain ownership of the Moon.  He plans and schemes with his business partners in an effort to generate the revenue needed to make travel to the Moon a reality.  He wants to make sure the Moon is not controlled by any nation, to fulfill his dream of man moving to the stars, and his boyhood dream of traveling to the Moon.  This story tied for 35th on the 1971 Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll of Short Fiction.  It was 5th on the 1999 Locus All-Time Poll for Novella's, and won the Retro Hugo for Best Novella for the year 1950 that was awarded in 2001.

"Requiem", though written before "The Man Who Sold The Moon", takes place after it.  In this story D. D. Harriman is desperately trying to get to the Moon before he dies.  He does not meet the health requirements for space travel, but he does have his money, and a tremendous resolve.  This story was first published in "Astounding" in January of 1940.  It tied for 17th on the Locus All-Time Poll for Short Stories in 1999, and won the Prometheus Hall Of Fame award in 2003.

"Life-Line" is the story of a scientist who is scorned by the scientific community for his claims that he can determine when people will die.  When his work starts to affect insurance companies, he is sued.  For his defense, he forecasts the deaths of the same scientists who rejected him at the start.  All that is left is to wait to see if he is correct.  This story was first published in "Astounding" in August of 1939.  It tied for 14th on the 1971 Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll for Short Fiction written before 1940.

"Blowups Happen" is a story about the dangers of nuclear power, and the psychological affect it has on those who work in the plant who are depended on to keep it from blowing up and killing millions of people.  This story was first published in "Astounding" in September of 1940
