The author, Brown, is a professor of New Testament (NT) and one of most eminent American scholars in the field, possibly the most eminent American scholar after John Meier.

When dealing with the different views on inspiration, Brown, who is Catholic, writes that he follows the Vactican II encyclical Dei Verbum, which says that Scripture is divinely inspired in that it is inerrant concerning those theological things God wants to reveal. He argues that this is what will motivate most readers, as he expects them to be interested in "religious implications".  Yet he admits how problematic this is: "how exactly does one know what God wanted put into the Scriptures?" This is however certainly fine for those Catholics who follow the Vatican's views or those protestants with similar views. But this will certainly not be appropriate for evangelical protestants since Brown follows the scholarly, critical conclusions on the authorship and redaction of the NT books - those readers will be better served with books such as D. A. Carson's Introduction to the NT or  Erich  Mauerhofer's Einleitung in die Schriften des Neuen Testaments. On the other end, if one is open for the truth, for the most reasonable conclusions concerning the authorship and redaction of these books, why stop in the middle of the way? Isn't it more consistent to go fully for the truth and be open to possible errors in the NT theological teachings? In this sense I don't think that Brown guiding principle will be satisfying for those Orthodox Christians, who do not believe this hard in the inspiration of the Bible (see Michael Azkoul's The Teaching of the Holy Orthodox Church, p. 11-13) nor really cared about its canon (many Orthodox churches never accepted the Western canon, see Bruce Metzger, The Canon of the NT, p. 218-228). Not to simply speak of genuine truth seekers. As Udo Schnelle put it in his book The History and Theology of the New Testament Writings, over Brown's book : "a theological introduction to the NT and a representation of his religious-philosophical orientation". 

I have been long on this first point, because I have the impression that Brown's honestly self-acknowledged bias gets much more in the way than in Boadt's Introduction to the Old Testament, where the same principle is used. Actually Brown's book is quite different from Boadt's. Brown gives much more details, arguments and analysis and in this respect is much more satisfying. Strangely, Brown has included many references in footnotes to scholarly books and papers, yet he has limited this to English documents and he does not use Greek fonts in the text (but awful transliterations). If a reader would look for this advanced material, he would have to be able to read Greek and at this level also German and French. In this sense Brown is not consistent, I think that either he should not have included these footnotes (and be much shorter) or he should have used Greek fonts and references to German and French works.

After some general introductory chapters, Brown goes on to deal with each NT book. For each NT book, Browns presents an  analytical commentary that follows the line of the book and can be quite long, dealing with various issues and arguments. Then Brown deals more quickly with the redaction, authorship and some final theological issues. Brown's treatment is quite detailed, presenting  different views and arguments of the NT scholarship and is very cautious in his conclusions. Even if he does not name them, Brown takes recent German theologians into account. I confess I did not read all the massive bulk of material contained in Brown's book (the book is about 900 pages long), it seems to be more suitable as a reference which one will consult when studying one of the NT books. The text is so massive and bulky that it seems that even Brown himself may have lost control of it (e.g. he forgot to give a date to the gospel of John, p. 375...)

At the end of the book Brown analyses some recent trends. It is fun to see how he masterfully deals with these few show-biz-theologians (Crossan, Borg...) of the so-called "Jesus Seminar", demolishing their speculations with a few blows, exposing their shallowness, arrogance and hypocrisy. The views of a few real scholars such as Sanders or Meier are also evaluated.

In conclusion, I find this book awkward. I  still gave it four stars because of the high quality of its scholarship. With its massive wealth of detail and scholarly elaboration, it is an advanced introduction geared for theology students or the intellectual laymen. But these will miss the Greek fonts and references towards non-English works. On the other hand this book has too much depth for the plain church-going layman. He or she will find the book by another Catholic, Pheme Perkins, Reading the New Testament, a more usable introduction at only a third of the price of Brown's book. For those with a high budget there is Bart Ehrmann's  pricey The New Testament. A Historical Introduction to the Early Christian Writings (beware that Ehrman refused that the debate he had with William Craig, and completely lost, be published so as not to give more "air" to Craig's points! which says enough about Ehrman academic open-mindedness and truth-seeking not to speak of intellectual honesty...). For theology students or intellectual laymen I think that the best book is Udo Schnelle's The History and Theology of the NT (the German edition, Einleitung in das NT, is more up-to-date).
