Williams's main projects in "Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy" are (1) to argue against the idea that there is a rational foundation for ethics;(2) to argue that there is no adequate ethical theory, nor is there likely ever to be such a theory; and (3)to broaden the focus of moral philosophy from a focus on the role of obligation in life to a wider array of considerations that are relevant in deciding how one should live.  

The book has excellent discussions of and arguments against Aristotle's attempt to find a foundatoin for ethics in human nature (that is, in the idea that there is something about the function of a human life that makes an ethical life proper) and Kant's attempt to find a foundation for ethics in a bare committment to rationality.  Williams is convincing in arguing that in order for the claims of an ethical life to get a grip on an individual that individual must have some committment to ethics already.  It is possible for someone to be rational and unethical.  That does not imply, Williams points out, there are not reasons to be ethical.  Many people have good reasons to be ethical; it's just that we we would be wrong to criticize those unethical people as necessarily being irrational.  

Williams's discussions of truth in ethics and of relativism are less convincing but equally valuable.  Williams argues that evaluative statements that use "thick terms"--terms like "loyal," "murder," "cruel" that are evaluative like the terms "good" and "right" but can be applied with descriptive accuracy in a way that those more general terms cannot be applied--can be true.  But reflection on thick terms unseats them and they are replaced by nothing knew.  For example, in the modern Western world, the thick term "chaste" has become obsolete.  While it was once a term that could be used to make true and false moral statements, reflection upon sexuality has (for argument's sake) undermined our use of the term.  Because of the role reflection plays, people are unlikely to ever converge on ethical truths that correspond to reality the way that scientific/factual beliefs do.  Related to this is Williams's moderate ethical relativism: there are some terms used in distant (in space or time) societies that we recognize as evaluative, but that we cannot judge by the lights of our own set of evaluative concepts.

I don't find Williams's views here convincing becuase I don't believe in his underlying Cartesian theory of truth.  And I don't buy his relativism because I think it's impossible not to evalute the way that other people or other cultures--even those of the distant past--evaluate.  One can't be neutral on how other people think and act.

The book also has strong, lively and sophisticated critiques of consequentalism and contractarianisn.  Williams believes that neither is an adequate ethical theory because each theory is based on unrealistic views of what it means to be a real person in the world with real desires.  For example, contract-based views of ethics assume that people can shed their actual beliefs and desires and still deliberate about how to act.  But if one distances himself from his own desires and beliefs, based on what does this more abstract self deliberate?

The book is leas interersting when Williams obsesses over the distortion that the exclusive emphasis on obligation in moral philosophy has wrought on moral thinking.  I think this was a big deal at the time the book was written, but for a non-philosopher reading it now, these concerns, largely confined to the last chapter, were a bit boring.

Finally, I would recommend reading Williams's essay "Internal and External Reasons" in his collection "Moral Luck" to better understand his views on the relation between rationality and morality
