Shashi Tharoor. Shashi Tharoor is a good writer of contemporary politics. The fact that he is being currently considered for the position of the UN Secretary General is enough to establish his political credentials. I have read his book entitled India: From Midnight to the Millenium, which is a political treatsie on modern India as it grapples with problems, finds solutions, all within the context of a great democratic experiment. Chronologically, "India: From ... Millenium" came later than "The Great Indian Novel," so you can see Mr. Tharoor laying down his arguments about India in the latter work and using them in his later work ("India: From ... Millenium.")
The Great Indian Novel is Mr. Tharoor's experiment with the politics of pre-independant and post-independant India (1940-1980) juxtaposed with the legend and lore of Indian history and mythology: the Mahabharata. The Mahabharata (or literally, "Great India") is a seminal piece of Indian prose that extolls the triumph of good over evil, and contains the sacred texts of the "Bhagavad Gita," which resulted from Lord Krishna's teachings to Arjun (the protagonist) on the meaning of life.
Mr. Tharoor has taken the major characters from Mahabharata and transplanted them to the India of 1940-1980 but given them the the personalities of the Indian freedom fighters -- Jawaharlal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi -- and politicians that oversaw independant India -- Indira Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shashtri, etc. To the reader not versed in Indian mythology, the names Arjun, Bhim, Yudhister, Nakul, Sahdev do not mean much. But here they are, deeply embedded in the travails of post-independant India; independence being the fruits of their parents' generation. One of these parents is Gangaji, a close analogue to Mahatma Gandhi, another is Dhritirashtra, the analogue to Nehru. In Mr. Tharoor's juxtaposition, there is the equivalent of the Jhallianwala Bagh tragedy, as there is one of the Dandi March to protest the British tax on Indian salt (except here, the Gandhi- equivalent marches to abolish the tax on, of all things, mangoes!) The mythic tales from Mahabharata are intervowen in modern context, the most hilarious of these being the tale whereby the five Pandavas were told by their mother to share Arjun's wife equally. While in the original text of Mahabharata, this resulted because the mother was otherwise occupied, in this alternate reality, it happens because the telephone connection to the mother was full of static and she could not hear what was being said!
The book starts of on a great footing, and was extremely enjoyable till about mid-point through. But Mr. Tharoor could not sustain the levity and the storyline all the way through. Towards the end, seminal happenings of Mahabharata -- Arjun being admonished by Lord Krishna on his failure to fight his cousins, a hunter shooting Lord Krishna in his toe, mistaking it for a deer -- are relegated to dream sequences. And other important figures of post-independence India -- Sanjay Gandhi, for instance -- have no equivalence from the mythological figures of the Mahabharata
