Who ever thought that learning C for non-programmers/minimal programmers could be fun or that the C language is a great language for people to start off on? Apparently Gregg Perry did and boy was he right on the money. This book takes a non-technical person who has never programmed before, or a semi-technical person who has minimal programming experience and turns them into a C programmer in a matter of days and gives them a wonderful time doing it.

 The C programming language is one of the harder/boring procedural languages to learn and I suppose it's because of the small amount of keywords (meaning more math) and the necessity for the programmer to have an understanding of Computer Science concepts. Mr. Perry brilliantly teaches the C language in a very fun, effective and interesting way. This book will not only teach you the fundamentals of building console applications with ANSI-C but it will also teach you the fundamentals of programming all together and you will have a great time doing it. I don't think that there is another programming tutorial book out there for any language that has such a fun and easy style to it and to think that this book applies to the C language is amazing.

 This book is perfect for people just starting out in programming and for those who have minimal programming experience in another language who want to learn the C language. This book is not good for those who have a lot of programming experience in another language who are just trying to add the C language to there toolbox. For these more advanced users, this book might be a little too fundamental and basic.

 This book is by far the best introductory programming book on the market, and I would recommend this to anyone just starting out in programming. Gregg Perry makes learning one of the hardest and traditionally most boring programming language easier as well as more fun and exiting than any other book on any other programming language that I know of (and I have an extensive library of over 270 programming and technical books). While this book will not make you a C expert and it doesn't even go that deep into the power of the C language, it does give you a very solid foundation that will make you more confident than ever to tackle more advanced books/tutorials/concepts on C or even other 'C -based' languages such as Java, C++ and Perl. At the end of this book you should even be very well ready to start writing your own console applications with confidence. 

 If you want to learn how to program and you want to have a great time doing it, than this is the book for you. If you come from another language but have minimal programming experience and you want to learn C and keep your mind interested in the subject matter at hand, than this is also the book for you. If you are already and experienced programmer and you are looking to conquer C, than this is not the book for you
