The Tale of Despereaux
By:  Kate Dicamillo

Review by:  Colin M.

As soon as I opened the book, The Tale of Despereaux, I loved it.  One reason I loved it was because it is very descriptive.  When the author, Kate Dicamillo is describing something, she really knows how to put a picture in your mind.  For example when she describes the dungeon I can almost see the darkness and gloominess around me, and smell the dank smell. 

The tale is about four main characters.  First, there is Despereaux, a mouse with large ears.  Second, there is Roscuro who is a rat who lives in the dungeon.  Third there is Princess Pea, who is a princess that lives in the castle.  And then there is Miggery Sow, a serving girl in the castle that has one, impossible wish.  How these four people change each other's lives is one thing about this book that makes it so exciting.

Another reason that I liked The Tale of Despereaux is because it is actually four books in one.  The first three books tell about the main characters, and the last book is about all of them.  The last book tells how Despereaux needs to save Princess Pea from the rat Roscuro.  Each book makes you curious to find out what happens next, and how it will all tie in together.

If you like books with all different kinds of genre, this book is for you because it is adventure, fantasy, and romance all at once.  It is adventure because Despereaux needs to save Princess Pea.  It is fantasy because there are talking mice and rats.  It is romance because Despereaux falls in love with Princess Pea.  This is just another reason why I liked The Tale of Despereaux.

I love The Tale of Despereaux because there is lots of twists, turns and surprises.  Also, the chapters leave you at cliffhangers, and you want to find out what happens next.  It is the kind of book that when you need to go to bed, you beg "just one more minute, please?" There are many good things about it, and there isn't anything that I did not like!  To find out what happens to all the characters, you need to read the book!

