Herlihy, David V. Bicycle, The History

This is a most excellent history of the bicycle. However, the exageration or mistake on page 300 does reflect poorly on the research involved in preparing such a work. There are number of published works that will verify the comments regarding the actual work of the Wright Brothers. 

Page 300, The Safety Era

In the section describing the work of Wilbur and Orville Wright, specifically the paragraph beginning "Starting in 1899 ..." About mid-paragraph is a description that reads as if the Wright Brothers rode a bicycle through a wind tunnel. Besides the obvious issue of wind tunnel size for such a test, this is not what occurred. The Wrights tested airfoils on a specially modified bicycle with a wheel mounted perpendicular to the front wheel, to which airfoils were mounted. They simply rode along the streets of West Dayton to test the airfoils. Lacking laboratory control or a proper method of measure, the Wrights stopped this testing to build a small wind tunnel in which to test airfoils.  This testing was accomplished on the second floor of The Wright Cycle Company at 1127 West Third Street, Dayton OH, under strict scientific procedures and careful measurement. From this data the Wrights devised a co-efficient of drag used to build their 1902 and subsequent gliders and aeroplanes. 

The exaggeration of their testing a bicycle IN a wind tunnel is much like the exaggerated and inaccurate reports of their flight of December 17, 1903. The brothers worked hard to correct these mistakes. The author would be wise to correct this mistake in future publications as such an exaggeration does reflect poorly on information that is less well documented than the work of the Wright Brothers.

Replicas of the bicycle set up for the experiment and of the wind tunnel are located at Carillon Historical Park, Dayton, OH, USA. The bicycle is an actual Wright Van Cleve manufactured by the brothers. The building is now located at Greenfield Village (Ford Museum) near Dearborn, Michigan, USA. 

Arthur Currence, Park Ranger, Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park, Dayton OH, USA.
