

This slim volume presents ideas that Dawkins presents better elsewhere.  However, what he possibly had in mind was an easier-to-read presentation of his ideas for a less technically-trained audience.  As such, it works very well. The chapter in which he obviously wants to provoke anyone who disagrees with him is entitled "God's Utility Function."  I'll concentrate on that chapter.  "Utility function" is an economist's term meaning "that which is maximized."  Dawkins, of course, maintains that "the true utility function of life is DNA survival."  DNA survival is not for the good of the organisms, but an uncoordinated scramble for selfish gain. "The universe we observe has precisely the properties we should expect if there is, at bottom, no design, no purpose, no evil and no good, nothing but blind, pitiless indifference."  To ask why is vacuous and illogical.  
 
No honest, educated person can doubt that evolution has occurred, and Dawkins presents sometimes brilliant speculations as to how such improbable structures such as eyes and wings have evolved.  He does, of course, exclude any discussion of the incredible complexity of the biochemistry involved. Despite some regrettable exaggeration and, apparently, dishonestly presented "facts," Michael Behe's concept of "irreducible complexity" (DARWIN'S BLACK BOX) is clearly is valid objection to the notion that evolution is a blind, reductionist process.  I will point out another.

Is there a difference between a universe in which nothing is aware of existence and a universe that does not exist at all?  "Well, it would still exist!"  Dawkins huffs irritably.  Perhaps, though that is nothing but a groundless assumption, and it is at least a quite singular coincidence that awareness of existence is a property of the universe.  Is it really "unscientific and illogical" to consider the possibility that this awareness might be an intrinsic property of existence?  It is also a remarkable coincidence that the universe consists of particles that just happen to be capable of forming life and consciousness, let alone that these qualities also managed to evolve.

Prior to the advent of quantum mechanics, Darwin's theory of evolution - not the fact of evolution, but his explanation for how it occurred - was simply illogical.  The universe was believed to be completely deterministic, consisting of "milliards and milliards and milliards of billiards and billiards and billiards."  So obviously, given the properties of the atoms, reacting with each other in accordance with the second law of thermodynamics, and their original state of motion, life and consciousness had to evolve exactly as it did, and "maximizing DNA replication" was completely incidental.  Quantum mechanics has demonstrated that atoms are not constrained to behave in a completely deterministic manner, although all that this means, from the reductionist viewpoint, is that one of a narrow range of similar possibilities will be arbitrarily selected.  We now know that very minor changes in initial conditions can lead to drastic changes further down the line -- a butterfly flapping its wings in New Jersey can cause a typhoon in Japan.  As usually stated, the butterfly effect, aside from being an exaggeration, is, of course, not true.  Typhoons are an inevitable consequence of the fact that there is a hot sun evaporating water from a planet with widely varying temperature gradients whose surface is seventy percent water.  The specific course that evolution has taken, and the specific form that life and consciousness have assumed, have been influenced by the indeterminism of quantum mechanics, but intelligent life has evolved because it is an inherent quality of existence.

This argument does not prove the above conclusion, of course, but it is sufficiently reasonable to at least consider it as a possibility.  We do not see an obvious differentiation of "good and evil" in evolution simply because this distinction only occurs when consciousness has achieved a complexity capable of perceiving this distinction.  Must science assume that an optimistic view of existence is evidence of ignorance?    
(Peter Payne, author of CAPTAIN CALIFORNIA:  A YOUNG MAN'S ENCOUNTER WITH THE EVIL WITHIN HIMSELF
