Erskine Caldwell's "Tobacco Road" is a depressing diatribe describing the plight of the Lester family living in Depression era southwestern Georgia.  The Lesters headed by the lazy, procrastinating Jeeter are a group of dirt poor, illiterate and depraved  sharecroppers living in a squalid, crumbling shack on land that was once a fertile family tobacco plantation.

Year by year parcels of land would be sold off to pay for taxes leaving the Lesters in a position where they would work the land that no longer belonged to them.  Seven years ago their landlord Captain Jack no longer able to make a profit from the cotton crop that was now the staple abandoned the Lesters and other families leaving them with no means of sustenance.  The Lester family of 17 children had been winnowed down to two that still remained on their dilipidated homestead, Ellie May, an 18 year old cleft palated eyesore and Dude, a 16 year old dunderhead.  Jeeter and his wife Ada, their two kids and his aged mother lived a hardscrabble existence of constant starvation.  Through the years Jeeter made overtures to plant a cotton crop but could not establish credit for the seeds and guano fertilizer to actualize his pipe dream.

The Jeeter's seemed to destroy anything they put their hands on. They lived a hopeless existence with lofty aspirations but no action in large part due to Jeeter's refusal to work in a cotton mill and give up his dreams of farming.  The Lester's neighbor Bessie a promiscuous widow of a preacher who took up that same calling decided to marry young Dude Lester.  She promised to buy a brand new car with the $800 in life insurance as a dowery for Dude.  Within days the car used for joy riding and to cart wood to nearby Augusta was a wreck courtesy of the Lester touch.

Caldwell's book is the furthest thing from a feel good story as could be created.  It's disheartening conclusion intimates that Dude is more than happy to follow in the footsteps of his father Jeeter to continue the circle of this despondent and dreary life
