It does not matter what race you are, but if you have experienced or know anyone who has experienced near death than this is a book that you should definately consider reading. It does not matter if you are a religous person because there are several people who give their experiences of near-death that are not religious. This wonderful book is about people's experiences with near death.  Each and everyone of us will experience death in many different ways, in which Moody has shown throughout his book.  He touches on the phenomenon of death, the experience of dying where people actually say they travel rapidly through a very dark long tunnel, paralles, questions, explanations, and people's impressions of the overall book.  
The reason why I have chosen to read this particular book is because my grandmother experienced a near death situation.  She was rushed to the hospital one night where she remained in the ER for several hours because of heart failure.  The nurses and doctors told us to go in a hold her hand and say our last words with her because they thought that she wasn't going to make it.  When I was in the ER I could tell that she was in severe pain.  She kept saying, Please don't let me die..."  As she was repeating herself over and over she had her hands raised in the air like she was reaching for something.  Later after she recovered she told us that she saw two angels and a bright light, therefore Moody has won over my decision on whether or not people experience a "real death" experience.  
In this book Moody tells his readers what it is like to die.  Several people are affraid of facing death, but this book has made me over come my fears of dying.  Moody presents real life experiences that people have submitted to him of their near-death experiences.  Many people wonder if they are hallucinating or really experiencing death.  Although, Moody says death is only where resuscitation is not taking place, even though these people truly believe that they have experienced what death is going to be like.  Some people say that they are glad to know that they have lived life right because it showed them going to heaven rather than hell.  Also, there were several people who mentioned that they could hear the doctors pronounce them dead and they tried to tell the nurses and doctors that they weren't but felt that they could not talk or could not move.  
After reading this book I was so amazed to find that Moody showed two sides to his argument.  He showed the side of what he believed, which was that people really were experiencing near-death and the other side which is where people did not believe that this was true.  Moody inserted and question and explantion section in his book, which made it really helpful to see both sides of the argument.  He even presented questions that contradicted what he believed and he did his best to give a clear explanation of why he believed in near-death.  Moody also was very honest and told people when he agreed with their reasoning on certain subjects.  
Moody clearly explained his views in such a profound and meaningful way throughtout his entire book.  In the end of the book Moody says that everyone should not fear death after reading several people's experiences.  He says that death should be an everlasting exerience that should be filled with joy and ever lasting life on the other side.  You can either take his word or live life worrying when your time is going to come to move on.  I strongly consider all people who are striving for a degree in the medical field to read this journey of death book.  This book will make you want to keep reading to find out what else others have to say about their near death experiences.  I hope you enjoy the book
