I was very impressed with the honest questions, the hard to ask questions that Rogers asks about education. In the beginning chapter, he admits that there are disturbing questions worthy of great debate, questions whose answers will form the foundation for students and learners.   What will education do to take the edge off of racial tension?  How will education help prevent civil and world wars?  Back in 1969, Carl Rogers saw some disturbing trends.  He talked about the possible student revolts against this conservative and rigid institution which could be very harmful to the entire process. Some of his worst nightmares are taking effect today.  School violence in our inner cities is sky rocketing with no end in sight. Child are losing respect for their teachers at a very young age. There seems to be a lot less respect for educators than there was 25 years ago when I was in school.  Rogers was also concerned with profit-making corporations getting too much of a hand in education.  This is a big concern these days with the society taking on more and more of a corporate feel.  If Dr. Rogers saw education at a crisis point in 1969, then where are we now??  

In the book, CR also differentiates experiental (self-directed)learning from meaningless rote type learning, where there is no personal context for connection.  To have freedom to learn, a person's self-confidence and curiousity grows along with intense curiousity to learn more, to have initial learning build on itself to create something brand new.  

This book made me think of the unnecessary regimentation which still plagues much of public education. Students should be encouraged (like in the movie "Dead Poets Society") to do their own dance, to fill their own sails with self-directed discovery. 

Rogers' concept of congruence has a lot to do with what he is talking about here.  The ability to be real in a relationship is much like the teacher being real in accepting the true needs of the student.  It is only with empathic listening, not regimentation, with honestly instead of false airs of playing the education game, with a person-centered approach to education and career related goals, not wishes imposed from the outside.....that, I believe, is what he is getting at.  A teacher, he says, "must be a person to his students", not a faceless embodiment of a cirricular requirement nor a sterile tube through which knowledge is passed from one generation to the next."  

He sums up his feelings about developing optimal climates for student learning, in a person-centered way:
"If we are to have citizens who can live constructively in this kaleidoscopically changing world, we can only have them if we are willing for them to become self-starting, self-initiating learners. Finally, it has been my purpose to show that this kind of learner develops best, so far as we now know, in a growth- promoting, facilitative, relationship with a person.
