This novel features Detective Petra Connor, previously featured in several Alex Delaware novels as well as another of her own called Billy Straight. I like her - she's cute, she's talented, she's tough ... She can't have children, though, and she's always whining about it. I just want to tell her: So you're sterile - get over it! You're young, you can adopt, it's not the end of the world! She also thinks about Detective Milo Sturgis a lot - he's the main detective in the Alex Delaware novels and Petra has worked with him a few times. As often as she mentions him, though, it's obvious she has a crush on him. And why not? He's tough, fair, charming - safe as only a gay guy can be.

Anyway, in this one, Petra's partner, Eric Stahl (who we first met in the Alex Delaware novel Cold Heart) is now her lover and is training in anti-terrorist tactics in Jerusalem (where he meets Detective Daniel Sharavi, star of his own novel The Butcher's Theatre and with whom Petra worked in Survival of the Fittest) I like Eric - he's weird, he's cool and I hope the author keeps him around. Oh, and there is a cameo appearance by Santa Fe Detectives Darrel Two Moons and Steven Katz from the book Double Homicide. Maybe I'm weird, but I like crossovers, so that was fun.

So, with Eric gone, Petra is working alone again - this time on a drive-by shooting that killed four young teens in front of a theatre. Plus a boy-genius arrives as an intern and she is assigned baby sitting duty. Isaac really is pretty sharp, though, and he discovers an annual serial killing pattern, which sets him and Petra off on an unsanctioned investigation that takes on more and more urgency as the fatal date draws nearer. So, it's a race against time and requires a certain bucking of the system since, for some unknown reason, Petra's Captain doesn't like her - he thinks she is some sort of prima donna, I don't know. So, there's lots of tension, some angst, some steamy sex (Yeah, Eric returns), plus a few surprises along the way and it kept me turning the pages, so what more can a reader ask for?

Isaac is such a cute character - he provides much of the comic relief in this one. He sets everything in motion with his discovery, but then we are entertained by his less than stellar love life and his involvement in the climax is just hilarious. I have to wonder how much of himself the author put into Isaac
