I've seen the word "macabre" used a lot in reviews of Eugenides's first novel, and I think it's appropriate, but for all its darkness this is certainly a novel with a heart. The bleak cynicism of its portrait of middle-class cluelessness (a community's inability to understand or care for its teenage daughters; the flailing, insincere attempts to "deal with" tragedy through therapy and both official and inofficial memorials to untimely death; and the flimsiness of individuals' concern for their neighbors, in the 20th-century American suburbs that claim to be "neighborhoods," through which a desperate sense of fear and self-preservation is constantly breaking) is balanced by the uncharacteristic tenderness of the teenage boys who observe the five doomed Lisbon sisters with an unrequited longing that is the closest thing this lifestyle offers to true love.

I read Eugenides's second novel, Middlesex, a while ago, and enjoyed it very much, but I think I liked The Virgin Suicides better. I was trying to explain to Z what I liked better about it, fumbling with how Middlesex is sprawling and narrative-oriented and this is weirder and somehow about something other than the story, but it won't quite give up what, and he did a much better job of articulating what I was trying to say: "It sounds," he said, "like The Virgin Suicides is modernist, while Middlesex is Victorian." Duh--that's exactly it. And then this morning, I came across an interview with Eugenides (by his onetime student, Jonathan Safran Foer), in which he says,

    "I always say it like this: my generation of writers grew up backwards. We were weaned on modernism and only later read the great 19th-century masters of realism. When we began writing in high school and college, it was experimental fiction. I think now that a certain kind of academic experimental fiction has reached a dead end. Middlesex is a postmodern book in many ways, but it is also very old-fashioned. Reusing classical motifs is a fundamental of postmodern practice, of course, but telling a story isn't always. I like narrative. I read for it and write for it."

I'm not of his generation, but I did cut my teeth as a serious reader on modernism (I spent my senior year of high school cultivating an obsession with Virginia Woolf, and she remains a standard of intelligent writing for me, whether I will it or not), which explains my attraction to the style Eugenides is trying to outgrow. I look forward, then, to Eugenides's third novel, whenever it appears, because I anticipate we will see a fusing of the styles he has learned to master into something fresh--not the tired and imprecise "postmodern," but whatever it is that comes afterward; the new generation of narrative fiction
