Since the main character, Ines, is such a difficult woman to love (woman of her time or not), Isabel Allende must be a brilliant writer because I was, mostly, compelled forward throughout the book.

Ines was a conquistadora, and her life is definitely not something a modern woman can relate to.  She WAS a woman of her time--though there is a hint of modernity that bled into her character as well.  

She has three loves in her life: one she was a (young) fool for; one whose flaws she should have seen sooner, but didn't because her position depended on him; and one that she found a sort of ordinary happiness with.  In other words, she spends most of her life--and the novel--with men not worthy of her affection.  I hate it when women do that.

Also, she seems to hate the atrocities that go on around her--the raping and the whole-sale slaughter of the natives--and yet it serves her purposes and advancement, and so she turns a blind eye to the constant, disturbing prices the natives pay for the success of her dream.  You will be disturbed by the behavior of the Spanish and the means they use to "civilize" South America.  You will also wonder how this woman, who seems so decent in most of her narrative, can stand to live--even thrive--in such and environment. 

Perhaps, every adult should read this book just for the stark reality of what went on during the Spanish conquest.  Be prepared to be turned-off--but not to the novel itself--and saddened at what was allowed to happen.

There was s*x a plenty in this novel, not all over the place, but enough of it, described in enough detail, that I would not allow an innocent young adult to read this novel.  The author was just setting the pace for Ines' relationships, but there was a level of detail to the encounters that might have been avoidable.  Also, the graphic nature of the violence, including the conclusion of one Spanish life, is at a level inappropriate for younger teens.  This is an adult's novel.

Overall, this is a great retelling of the life of a little known Spanish woman that allows us to look at the actions of the conquistadors from a new perspective--and to consider what it was like for the women of the American exploration generations, those left home and those who joined the conquest
