THIS SHOULD BE MANDATORY READING FOR MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENTS STUDYING THE WW2 ERA and others who have never been exposed to economics but are interested. I highly encourage parents and teachers to add it to their childrens' curriculums. 

That said, this book is not perfect. Rather than "Economics in One Lesson", it is more like "A Series of Economic Fallacies Debunked." Hazlitt does not lay out the basic principles of economics, which could be done in about 5 lessons: 1)self interest, 2) TANSTAAFL (opportunity cost), 3) division of labor, 4) maybe price equilibriums/supply&demand, and 5) maybe something else. Instead, he riffs on some common misconceptions.

The problem with that is:
- The fallacies he addresses are not as commonly espoused today as they were in the recent past (WW2 era). Today's interest-party-backed fallacies are much more insidious.
Since the 80s free-market capitalism has become more mainstream, so it may be better for novices to dive into a book that lays out the principles of economics as above. Or maybe a more contemporary econ topics book like Steve Levitt's Freakonomics. 
- By not laying out the principles backing his critiques, Hazlitt may not have much power to convince those who are misguided (as evidenced by the negative reviews here).

A few comments on those reviews:
"A look at any number of third world countries will reveal the true outcome of relinquishing government and social controls of the economy." - ironically true. 

"Read the rabid ranting temper tantrum of the one reader who amazingly was accepted to the University of Chicago" - as a Chicago grad, I can assure you the reputation of some of its professors is not deserved by all of them, nor by all of their students.

To the guy defending the factory-bombing fallacy: please google "opportunity cost."
To those saying "this book is against modern economics, right-wing, etc": no. The book applies the basic principles of economics, which are timeless (though still poorly understood)
