I didn't participate in law review or any other extracurricular activities.  Since I didn't want to work for a big firm or a judge, I figured my time would be more rationally allocated by reading books on trial and appellate advocacy.  I've read most of F. Lee Bailey's books on how to investigate and try various cases, I've attended several trial skills CLEs, and I've studied the closing arguments of the greats.  I've also read just about everything by Bryan A. Garner. 

Thus, going into my last semester of law school, I knew a lot about persuasive and analytical writing, but almost nothing about scholarly writing.  I had avoided "paper classes."

Unfortunately, my desire to take a certain class was outweighed by my aversion to academic writing: I was in a class where the entire grade would be based on one paper.  Thus, I turned to Volokh's Academic Legal Writing.

The date my paper was due severe formatting glitches caused me to lose 4 - 5 pages of text - the guts of one of my "Roman numeral" arguments.  I spend several hours fixing the formatting that could have been spent doing final polishing.  Although able to fix the footnotes, I never recovered that lost text.

Nevertheless, I earned the second-highest grade, missing the top score by only 2 points.  In earning this grade I bested several law review editors, and many of the top 10 students.

Had I not read and employed the principles in Academic Legal Writing, I am confident I would not have done so well.

One principle I learned was to demonstrate to the reader early in the paper why the paper is necessary.  The best way to do this is to show that your paper picks up where another article left off, or that your paper covers an issue previously ignored.  Thus, I began:

"Although the federal bribery statute's scope is sweeping, covering conduct well beyond the "the most blatant and specific attempts of those with money to influence governmental action,"  it has been given scant attention.  Legal scholars and political scientists are, in Professor Lowenstein's words, guilty of "sins of omission" for ignoring bribery.   Little has changed since Professor Lowenstein's 1985 article.  Thus, this Article seeks to fill one of the many gaps."

To those of you familiar with scholarly writing, making this point would seem obvious.  But it was not obvious to me.  Volokh's book taught me many things I did not know, and I suspect even experienced writers will learn something worth the investment of time and money in his book. 

It's also likely that those of you fluent with academic legal writing learned things piecemeal.  Volokh's work is systematic: You will fill in gaps of our own knowledge.

Go buy a book here
