William Styron wrote a bestseller and it is very easy to see, why "Sophie's Choice" became one - it has all the characteristics of the bestseller: an important subject, emotional rendering, acute descriptions and many surprises along the way.  It recalls the story of three housemates in Brooklyn: a young, aspiring writer, Stingo (alter ego of Styron, presumably, since he is the narrator), Sophie Zawistowska, the Polish woman who escaped death in Auschwitz-Birkenau, and the Jewish maniacal lover of Sophia, Natan. Many secrets (mostly Sophie's, but ultimately of all the protagonists) are revealed gradually and the tension is punctuated by several dramatic events. 

The book is long, but very captivating and therefore it is a fast read. I was very moved by the story, but not only by Sophie's trauma, but also (and mainly) by the feelings in the triangle.  I think the characters' personalities are very well depicted and they come alive on the pages of this novel (as well as the other, minor characters, which are very colorful too, like Sophie's father or even the landlady). The writing is very good, and having said that, I must say I am surprised by opinions, that the writing is mundane and only the topic of the WWII victim is interesting and moving in this book. For me it is just the opposite - it is a very good novel, but for the accuracy or relations from concentration camps, or descriptions of the death camps survivors, it is better to get to know other books (Styron does actually a good job enumerating some examples and authors, like Tadeusz Borowski, whom I recommend). It is a novel and one should not forget that. 

For me it was triply interesting because of my Polish background and interest both in immigrant culture (Brooklyn) and American South, which is for me equally mysterious as Poland before and under the Nazi occupation for the American reader. So if you think that Styron shows the South or New York in a superficial manner, you can imagine that the Polish part is done in a similar style (although obviously the author has researched the subject, there are some strangely vague statements, like the mention of the ghetto in Cracow - the Jews lived in their quarter in Kazimierz, but I am not sure if it could be called a ghetto as we understand the word now). The reader is left until almost the end of the book what is meant by the title and when the answer arrives, it is already a bit blurred by all the other events in the narrative.

In my opinion, it is a very good novel, but not completely perfect, maybe because it seems to be an attempt to achieve too many goals (both in form and in content).
