This is the book to read, without a doubt.  This historial fiction book was so real I actually looked up the characters to see whether they were real or not.  This book travels back and forth within two time periods.  This is romance set both in the Revolutionary times and the early 1900's.  Peggy Grahame is the main character, and she travel's to her uncle's ancestral estate of Rest-an-be-thankful after her father dies.  Before she reaches the estate, however, she meets a handsome British scholar, Pat.  But when Pat and Peggy reach Rest-and-be-thankful, Peggy's uncle forbids Pat to ever come to the house again, for no particular reason.  As Peggy's uncle never seems to have time for her, Peggy explores the house and finds several objects linked with her Revolutionary ancestors.  After finding each object, she meets the ghost it was linked to and they tell her about their story of the War.  The first ghost to tell his story is Richard Grahame, and he talks of his attempts at capturing the clever British marauder, Peaceable Drummond Sherwood.  It was Richard's enemy Peaceable, however, who led him into a romance with the woman he never thought he would forgive.  Then after finding a bean pot, Peggy meets her third ghost, Richard's sister, Barbara Grahame.  She tells of Aunt Susanna's imprisonment and her escape to see her brother on Christmas day.  Before she reaches her brother, she is unknowingly captured by Peaceable Sherwood.  Incidentally, Barbara finds him attractive, charming, and clever, and just can't help falling in love with him.  When she does turn him in, Barbara misses him more and more each day, and even tries to free him from jail. A short time after, Peggy meets Peaceable Sherwood face to face.  He tells of his escape from jail and his last visit to Barbara before he rejoins his army and the end of the Revolutionary War.  The one thing I didn't really like about this book was the ending.  You never really got to know peggy, and there doesn't seem like a good reason for why Pat fell in love with her, or why she fell in love with Pat.  What I wanted to know was what happened to the ghosts.  But despite the ending, this book is a must read, and you'll never be able to put it down
