Plotinos (Latin: Plotinus) is not well known to the general public, much less than Plato in whose tradition he stands. Nevertheless Plotinos is well known in smaller circles on behalf of his enormous influence on Western mysticism, and not less as a very original philosopher. However his writings are not read very often outside the small circle of lovers. And this is understandable because what is left of them, is mostly restricted to an - although extensive - collection of loose and often smaller tractates, after adaptation bundled by his pupil Porphyrius. Due to Plotinos' influence on christian mysticism and on philosophy in its stricter sense many introductions to his work are written from those viewpoints, and so are rather christian-theological or more strictly philosophical. Too soon forgotten then is Plotinos' objective of a view of life that is to be lived, and this as well without reference to christian theology and without the modern opposition of philosophy and practice. Perhaps it might even be said that in so far the tradition of the hellenistic mystery schools was integrated or still got some place within the christian West, this mainly took place through Plotinos and the neoplatonism inspired by him.
Ofcourse it is possible to look at Plotinos in the ways described, and this even has become the norm for a long time in the past. But historically and practically it is possible to read the original Plotinos in a way which does not take those interpretations as the norm. A way which is distinct and at least as original. This is my opinion after reading Brian Hines book. However what I am not capable to do, is tracing exactly the accordance of his interpretation with Plotinos' texts or rather with the system entailed and described in those. Nevertheless I have no argument at all to suppose that Hines' interpretation is not relevant or not correct. He uses the best known sources and resources (including important secondary literature), the same as are used by other scholars. Fascinating is that Hines' interpretation delivers a view in much more accordance with the old interpretation of philosophy as part of a spiritual school of life, such as were a reality in the Classic Age. As well as with the way of psychological development which we also meet in Indian philosophies. Plotinos is a very psychological philosopher. [...]

In the first part of his book Hines gives a number of points to be attentive to in reading and interpreting Plotinos and his texts, as well as a justification of his method.

Then he summarizes the system of Plotinos in the form of chapters about aspects of his philosophy, selected and composed according to the way indicated in the system itself. First the aspects of the One and the Many, next the aspects of the way the soul goes from its descent from the One to the Many and its ascent from the Many back into the One. In this way the at first sight rather strange because rather technical philosophy of Plotinos becomes astonishingly "concrete" and actual, psychologically and spiritually profound. I recall the titles of a number of those chapters: God is the Goal, One is Overall, First is Formless, Infinity is Ineffable, Reality is a Radiation, Universe is a Unity, All is Alive, Truth is Transparent, Form is Foundation, Intelligence is Intuitive, Psyche is a Pilgrim, Descent is Debasement, Choice is Compulsion, Reason is Restricted, Image is Illusion, Suffering is Separation, Soul is the Self, Without is Within, Simplicity is Superior, Fear is a Fiction, Vision is Veracity. Very rich in content, these chapters are built around much cited and central statements and sentences from the works of Plotinos and present a clear interpretation of them in modern language within the context of modern ideas. Not just that many insights from philosophy and psychology are presented in passing but one now also sees how profound Plotinos' views are in comparison with these. And this in a way understandable to not only christians or professional philosophers but to everyone with interest in and some knowledge of modern (religious or spiritual) psychology and modern thinking about it.

Hines concludes his book with some chapters in which he elucidates some more general topics and problems, such as how to interpret the philosophy of Plotinos taken as a whole, how to interpret the relation between this neoplatonism and christianity, what might be the heritage of Plato and Plotinos and what might be the messages for us entailed in all this. That is to say for our search to find truth and regarding what we might or should be willing to invest to reach that goal.

His book ends with well described suggestions for further reading and / or study, and it comprises a good index.

Altogether this is a very valuable introduction into the original philosophy of Plotinos. Not difficult to read, nor does it reduce to meaninglessness the sometimes profound or complex questions that can be posed. On the contrary, this book is often elucidating and inspiring.
Very much recommended.
