"Khrushchev: the Man and His Era" makes for a remarkably smooth reading. Taubman's even and unadorned language serves as a welcome backdrop for the plot full of nuance, intrigue and deeply hidden motives. The image of Khrushchev the mercurial and evil oaf has persisted for decades. This book, along with some recent research, took on the task of tilting the scale towards the commander's complexity and some goodness of heart.

The challenge is formidable. In Stalin's times, Khrushchev did send thousands to death on his own initiative. His domestic agricultural and political "miracle" solutions were invariably a flop. His international stance, with frequent outbursts in front of heads of state and numerous threats detailing how many Soviet nuclear heads it would take to obliterate such and such a country, were a disgrace. His inability to foresee consequences of his actions led to increased international tensions, including the Hungarian and Cuban crises.

Khrushchev's biggest counterweight to that was his speech on the 20th Party Congress, in which he denounced Stalin. It gave a tremendous impetus to the anti-Stalinist movement across the world and in the Soviet Union itself. Yet, none other than Beria was the first revisionist of Stalin's crimes. On the day of Stalin's funeral he released Molotov's wife from the camp. Less than a week later he ordered a review of all falsified cases, including the doctors' plot. A month after Stalin's death he announced that the doctors' plot was fabricated. Khrushchev's speech to the 20th Party Congress happened almost a year later. In addition, the speech clearly distanced all the members of the Party Central Committee from Stalin and was, if in part, a preventive strike, lest someone else point at the top Party apparatchicks as sharing the blame. 

Khrushchev's most memorable domestic policies comprised the issuance of internal passports to the peasants, which made it easier for them to move around within the country, and doubling the speed of residential construction, which gave over 100 mln people a separate apartment. Despite serious flaws of these reforms (speed in housing construction was achieved at the expense of quality, and the internal passport, if a welcome reprieve for peasants, was originally designed as an instrument of control, rather than freedom), they had people's quality of life as the primary concern.

A boor and a bungler, Khrushchev nevertheless appears genuinely interested in improving the lot of the people in his country. Khrushchev's most disarming quality was speaking from the heart, as in his emotional denouncing of Stalin in a private conversation with a long-time friend (in 1938 no less, at the height of the Great Terror), for which he knew he was risking his liberty and possibly his life. The humane aspect of some of his reforms and the empathy that he often projected in personal communication may be his principal redeeming qualities.

His relationship with intelligentsia was spotty (personally helped Solzhenitsyn, personally attacked Pasternak). And yet, by allowing some liberal art and lifting up the internal and external iron curtain, Khrushchev gave the Soviet people an unprecedented taste of freedom. The freedom was short-lived, but at no other time in the 70 years from the Bolshevik revolution to Gorbachev could a Soviet person openly criticize the Soviet system or the Soviet government.

Perhaps, the most important positive legacy of Khrushchev is the notion of freedom of expression in the Soviet State and of the mere possibility of "changing the course" in a totalitarian state.
