WE WERE SOLDIERS ONCE...AND YOUNG, Lieutenant General (Ret.) Harold (Hal) G. Moore's and Joe Calloway's painstakingly detailed history of 1965's Battle of the Ia Drang Valley, should be required reading for anyone interested in war, particularly those who still believe that there is something noble or glorious about men engaging in politically sanctioned slaughter. 

This prior comment is no indictment of anyone in particular, especially not the soldiers who fought in the Ia Drang, whether Americans or Vietnamese. Both sides demonstrated uncommon bravery and fortitude under fire. The comment stands however, as an indictment of the waste and horror of battle, the brutishness of men killing each other, and the cost of war in young human lives. 

The Battle of the Ia Drang was the first major engagement of United States forces against the People's Army of North Vietnam. It took place over the course of a week at two clearings in the jungle called Landing Zone X-Ray and Landing Zone Albany, and was the first battle deployment of airmobile troops in history. 

Incomplete intelligence and ill-advised orders (to find and kill the enemy, rather than to hold enemy territory) resulted in the 1st Battalion of the 7th Infantry, numbering less than 500 men, being airdropped into the red-hot center of NVA-controlled South Vietnam. The Americans were met by more than 2000 North Vietnamese regulars who were defending their major southern command post. Even before the GIs were off their helicopters they came under withering enemy fire. Moore and Calloway are terrifyingly graphic in their descriptions of the ordered chaos which ensued. Although the Americans won the day at X-Ray, they did so at an unconscionable human price. Their stand at LZ Albany, two days later, was little short of disastrous.

Moore cuts the army brass no ice in criticizing the overall strategy behind the Battle of the Ia Drang. It should have been abundantly clear to anyone with eyes to see that the Vietnamese Communists were a superbly trained ground force utterly committed to their cause, willing to fight to the last drop of blood. The human cost of the battle and the nature of the enemy should have forced a massive reconsideration of U.S. means and goals right at the beginning of the greater U.S. committment in Vietnam. That it didn't is a tragedy.

Although I have given WE WERE SOLDIERS ONCE...AND YOUNG five well-deserved stars for its story, the book (at least the mass market paperback edition) suffers from very poor formatting. I have read voraciously for the last 40 years and this is one of the few books I have experienced that is measurably devalued by its atrocious editing. 

WE WERE SOLDIERS ONCE...AND YOUNG is not Hal Moore's book, but a history of the 7th Division at Ia Drang. General Moore not only includes his own reminiscences, but those of other survivors, most often directly transcribed from interviews. 

The various participants' accounts are not clearly set off from each other by conventions such as indents or font changes. As a result, they often impinge on each other confusingly, and it becomes difficult to determine whose voice is speaking at a given moment. 

Since many men are recounting their personal experiences, a single incident (or person) may be introduced and discussed several times. This undifferentiated style gives the reader an impression of weak writing, which it is not. Still, it becomes too easy to lose one's place in what at times appears to be the world's most incredibly convoluted run-on sentence.

But for this editor's flaw, which has nothing to do with the authors or their subject, reading WE WERE SOLDIERS ONCE...AND YOUNG is a shattering experience everyone should share.           
