
In September 1974, a secret meeting of the Kameradenwerk (German for "Comrades Organization") is called to order in Sao Paolo, Brazil with these words, "Lasst uns jetzt Geschaft reden, meine Jungens." ("Let's get down to business now, boys.")  Spoken by the Nazi Angel of Death, Dr. Joseph Mengele, they immediately bring quiet to the room.  Mengele outlines a plan to his cohorts, all ex-Nazis: over the next two years, they are to travel the globe, arranging the deaths of ninety-four men in their mid sixties.  Mengele assures them that their efforts will fulfill the destiny of the Aryan race.

Unknown to the participants, their meeting has been clandestinely recorded by Barry Koehler, a young American seeking to ingratiate himself with legendary but aging Nazi hunter, Yakov Liebermann.  After fleeing the premises with the tape, Barry reviews its contents, then calls a confused Liebermann in Vienna (it's early morning there) to alert him.  At first skeptical, alarm bells start jangling in Liebermann's mind when Barry's call is cut short after someone breaks into his hotel room.  Concerned about the now missing boy's fate, and by the troubling news he delivered about Mengele's activities, Liebermann investigates, slowly uncovering the sordid details of the Kameradenwerk operation.

For those of you who are unfamiliar with this famous book's plot, it would be unfair to reveal additional details--half the fun of the novel lies in Levin's slow reveal of the insidious Nazi scheme.  That's not to say those familiar with the book's premise will enjoy it any less, as the other half lies in watching a master at work--only Ira Levin could squeeze so much tension out of what amounts to a battle of wits between two sexagenarians.  

The Boys From Brazil is a breathtaking work of suspense, a classic thriller exhibiting two key traits of the best of Levin's novels, a fascinating premise and exemplary pacing.  A master at snaring and retaining his audience's attention, Levin draws readers into his carefully constructed web, sparingly doling out information in service of his story.  Because readers must struggle alongside Liebermann to put the puzzle pieces together, realizing the full import of Mengele's plan at the same time the Nazi hunter does, it's almost as if they are first hand participants in the unfolding action.    

There are scenes in this book which you'll find yourself thinking about weeks after you finish--these memorable set pieces, together with Levin's subtle consideration of the morality of those on both sides of the conflict, make The Boys From Brazil "unputdownable" and unforgettable.  

