     Pat Buchanan's book, Where the Right Went Wrong, attempts to demonstrate how the traditional conservative movement in America has slowly been straying from its roots (in the Reaganite era) and has been replaced by the neoconservatives (neocons); or those who were never truly conservative to begin with.  Buchanan's book reads like an indictment, blaming Bush, his cabinets and his councils for the "quagmire in Iraq" and the "staggering budget deficits."  

     Buchanan's definitive categorization of the neocons can be summed up as follows: the worldwide spread of democracy, even if by force, (which seem contradictory), and the use of preemptive strikes or wars on all of those who oppose America or might seek to match us militarily.  The neocons, who dominate think tanks and policy councils thrive on these principles and as Buchanan argues, "have hijacked the Bush presidency."  

     The major underpinning of Buchanan's book is his criticism of the President and his infamous "Bush Doctrine."  He asserts that Bush's statements regarding the "axis of evil" (N. Korea, Iraq and Iran) such as, "I will not wait on events, while dangers gather..." during his 2002 State of the Union Address have created a dangerous precedent for preemptive wars and military strikes. 
 
     Buchanan rightly states, "What did Iran, Iraq, and North Korea have to do with 9/11?  Why was he widening the war by issuing ultimatums to Iran, Iraq and North Korea before Al Qaeda and its collaborators had been eradicated?"  Buchanan asserts that it is Bush's neoconservative cabinet (Wolfowitz, Cheney, Rusmfeld, Perle, Feith, etc.) that has manipulated and indoctrinated the mind of our President, thus fashioning him into a neocon:  "Thus began the tutoring of George W. Bush..."  
 
     Buchanan also brilliantly documents an impressive number of proof texts showing how the war in Iraq had been long planned out and subsequently "put on the shelf."  Men such as Wolfowitz, Bolton, Perle, and Rusmfeld waited to attack Iraq until a window of opportunity opened; and it did on September 11, 2001.  Buchanan writes that "Paul Wolfowitz brought his obsession with Iraq into the Bush national security councils...he would push the president to ignore Afghanistan and attack Iraq."  

     Buchanan puts forward the idea that our worldwide "wars for democracy" can only come at the cost of losing our country.  By continuing on our current path, we will be stretched too thin militarily and will suffer the same fate as the ancient Romans and Greeks: our "empire" will cease to exist or at the least, cease to be a world hegemon.  He declares that Bush and his security councils are primarily concerned with imperialism, whereas they should be concerned about the safety and security of our frail American borders.  

     Another claim made by Buchanan about these liberals masquerading as conservatives is that they are bankrupting America.  His chapter titled "Economic Treason" reads like an apologetic for classic protectionism (aka the "America First" model).  Buchanan blames NAFTA and out of control spending on the part of the Republicans for many of our economic woes.  

     Buchanan believes that things will only get worse economically if we don't back out of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and separate (or rather isolate) America economically.  Although a stunning critique with excellent points, Buchanan fails to realize that as we are approaching a global economy (to this writer's dismay) we must work with other countries or we will be left in the world's economic dust.  Although I empathize with Buchanan's criticisms of America's economic policies and our Presidents "drunken sailor" spending, Buchanan's critique of our economic policies are long on diagnosis and short on cure.  Like it or not, America must remain economically integrated with the world to survive.

    In summation, I think that Buchanan puts forth many strong arguments and many more valid criticisms of the way George W. Bush has been and is running (and bankrupting) our Republic.  One would be hard pressed to read this book and come away unchanged or unchallenged.  But like most books of this nature, Buchanan comes across as having deconstructed many of the Bush cabinet's policies without having a building plan to replace them with.  

     Nevertheless, I hold Buchanan in high esteem and commend him for the writing of this innovative book.  The Republican Party and the conservative/neoconservative movement would do well to take what Buchan has to say seriously and contemplate what the future of America will be if we continue down the path we are on.
   
    

  
