I first read this when I was about 13, and was very impressed--a galaxy-spanning Empire, thousands of years old? Space-ships that jump across the galaxy through hyperspace? Hand-held blasters as weapons?  Hari Seldon, who could chart the future of the galaxy? Wow! It was good stuff. However, I when reread these novels many years later, flaws jumped out. Fatal flaws, actually. The first is that Seldon's &quot;psychohistory&quot; is utter nonsense. It is impossible, and always will be, to chart human behavior--especially the behavior of a quintillion or so people--through mathematical equations. The second is that Asimov is vague about the political and economic structure of the Empire. It appears to be aristocratic/feudal. That's really hard to believe, some 10,000 years in the future. Is it free-market? Is it totalitarian? And Asimov is rather vague about why it collapses...a dying of curiosity, a misallocation of resources...other things, none of them really specific, none of them really believable. Even when Asimov wrote these novels the evidence was overwhelming that what causes societies to collapse is the expansion of the State, i.e. of government. I guess he wasn't familiar with any of the many works on it. The history of the Roman Empire, upon which these novels are based, went from Republic to Empire to Dark Ages. But it collapsed because of the expansion of government and the resulting lack of freedom. Had Asimov written a more realistic trilogy, a Galactic Republic would have turned into a totalitarian Galactic Empire, then collapsed. In Europe's Dark Ages there were small groups of people (the Irish for one) who helped preserve knowledge (which actually, to a degree, is what happens with the Foundationa and the Second Foundation). But psychohistoric mathematical equations could play no part is charting the future history the the coming society. Asimov, to some degree, does stress the horrors of government expansion and the importance of freedom over false government &quot;security.&quot; But it is so vague that I completely missed it as a teenager. And it is teenagers, generally speaking, who read science-fiction. Asimov could have done a better job, politically, historically, economically. But, even with all the flaws, it's still an absorbing read
