Courtesy of CK2S Kwips and Kritiques

Ten years after we left Anakin Skywalker and Obi Wan Kenobi, we meet up with them again. Anakin is fast proving his abilities as a Jedi Apprentice, surpassing Obi Wan even. Now they have a new mission. Senator Padmé Amidala is in danger with attacks on her life. She is crucial to a coming vote to form an Army of the Republic and someone will do anything to prevent her decision.

Anakin discovers upon once again meeting up with Padmé that his feelings for her have not faded, but only grown more intense over the years, putting him in a relationship forbidden to Jedi. The more time they spend together, the more dangerous to the Force his position becomes, causing him to cross the line into the unacceptable range.

Meanwhile, Obi Wan is sent on a mission to a distant planet to investigate rumors of a huge army being formed at the request of the Jedi. As he looks deeper in to the matter, he finds many mysteries that defy explanation. Who commissioned a clone army and why? Who is so desperate to stop Padmé's vote at any cost? What will become of the forbidden love between Anakin and Padmé?

Having watched the movie immediately upon its release, I just this year finally found the time to sit down and read the novelization of the story. Having done so, I found the novel to be quite enjoyable, going in to even greater depth on various plot threads in the movie. Of course nothing can compare to the visualization of the creative genius of George Lucas, but the book adds to the sometimes sketchy elements of the movie's storyline.

In the book, we get a deeper understanding of what exactly drives Padmé. We get to meet her family, characters never even mentioned in the movie. Seeing this side of her personality, she comes even more alive with warmth and compassion. We also get to spend far more time with Shmi Skywalker, Anakin's mother, and what has happened to her in the years since Anakin left her to train as a Jedi. We see her happy and comfortable in her life, to which only glimpses are granted in the movie itself. We also experience her terror and agony at the hands of the Tusken raiders who stole her away, eventually causing her death. This is of grave importance as Anakin's reaction to her kidnapping is the first huge step pushing him on his way to the Dark Side of the Force.

Much of George Lucas' brilliance is lost in a novelization however, since he is known for the stunning visual effects in his movies. For example, Obi Wan's journey to the distant planet where the army is being grown and the events that follow pale significantly in the novel without the scenery. This is to be expected however when movies are put into words in a book. We are however, privy to the wonderful sound effects throughout the story. We get to experience the light saber battles through sound and R2D2 and C3PO would not be given justice without hearing them. Jonathan Davis is an absolutely brilliant performer, perfect for the Attack of the Clones. He does such an incredible job of bringing the characters to life through his voice. The Star Wars saga has a huge cast of characters to keep straight. I don't know how he did it, but Davis's abilities to transform himself through the mouths of all the players. Every single one of them is very distinct. That in itself is a testament to Davis' ability.

Though Attack of the Clones in novel form will not give a full vision into the Star Wars story, between the novel and the movie itself, fans will get a better concept of George Lucas' dreams than should they limit themselves to one or the other, book or movie.

© Kelley A. Hartsell, November 2006. All rights reserved
