for a ship attempting to stay afloat off the New England coast, the weather conditions were even more severe.

A few hours after the horrendous storm began, an oil tanker named GLOBAL HOPE radioed Gloucester's Coast Guard station with a report of a broken hull and water in the engine room.  Several search-and-rescue crews were dispatched to aid the tanker.  But when the driving snow, high winds, and turbulent waves combined to threaten those boats as well, many turned back to seek harbor safety.  The CAN DO, a private pilot boat captained by Frank Quirk, Jr., volunteered its services.  Quirk had a history of helping ships in need, and he and four friends set out on the CAN DO to find the tanker.  The blizzard proved to be more than their boat could handle, as the storm took out the navigation equipment, engines, and part of the windshield.  Frank and his crew eventually joined the scores of mariners throughout history whose lives have been claimed by the sea.  In an ironic twist of fate, the GLOBAL HOPE and its sailors survived the gales intact, and all were rescued when the skies cleared.

As the CAN DO's story is unveiled, it is interjected with the telling of other sea-faring tales and men who faced similar obstacles.  While this technique serves to build the plot to its climax, it can also frustrate the reader who has to constantly see-saw through time, learning about historical incidents before returning to the book's main characters, over and over again.  The reading rocks back and forth as if it too is moving with the sea.  Perhaps that's the way it should be, for ultimate effect.
 
Another challenge for the reader is the lack of maps.  This real-life storyline is based on geographics, and we need to be able to imagine the relationships between points on the charts.  Here the only map is printed between the table of contents and the prologue, and it's difficult to refer back to it.  Maps on the end papers -- or even scaled-down versions at the beginning of each section -- would have made the CAN DO's predicament easier to understand, especially for us inlanders who aren't intimate with the northeastern Bay State coastline.

Nevertheless, Michael Tougias has brought to light an event worthy of more publicity than it has ever previously gotten.  The CAN DO and its men can join the ANDREA GAIL ("The Perfect Storm") and the EDMUND FITZGERALD in that regard
