Saira Shah sheds light on the complex and subtle religion, culture, and politics of the diverse people in Afghanistan.  It's a thoroughly engrossing book with all the qualities described in other reviews. 

"The Storyteller's Daughter" helps us towards a better understanding and away from an appalling ignorance about a country that the U.S. has chosen to interfere with.  Reading it deepens my concerns that we're meddling in places that we have little or no understanding of and may never be able to understand.  

Shah views the divisions within Islam based on fanaticism versus mysticism rather than schools and creeds.  The Afghani's are inclined towards the mystic, whereas the Saudis follow a more fundamentalist and austere Islam.  Here's an Afghan joke that demonstrates the shared commitment to waging war but the differing approaches:  "Every Afghan fighter wants to be a ghazi, a hero, but the Arab wants to be a shahid, a martyr.  That's why we try to help them along by putting them on the front line!"

When Shah writes about the U.S. involvement in Afghanistan in 1986, she notes that the U.S. wanted to see the conflict as a fight of democracy against Communism and failed to see that its "allies" were fighting a war between "extremist political Islam" and Afghanistan's "outdated traditional society," and the U.S. was funding the extremists.   

Family history and allegiances are complex and go far into the past.  She explains how a long history of invasions of Afghanistan, Afghan invasions of other countries, and internal wars between families and tribes has resulted in men who are fierce, brutal, and fearless fighters.  

One of these fighters is a twenty-four-year-old Taliban commander who began fighting at eleven and has never lived during a time of peace.  He's fought both for and against the Taliban based on who offers the best weapons.  He carries photos of smiling fellow warriors before an attack and cassette tapes of battles in which he has fought. "`I always record my battles, I can play them later for relaxation and so that my name will live for ever.'  Between explosions, the cries of the wounded are audible on the tape. He points to the child who will soon be joining the fray.  This is the commander's favourite battle because during it the child's father was martyred. The tape reminds him that his friend is now in Paradise."

The book is compelling and unforgettable.      
