I bought this book a few years ago after a friend recommended it to me. 

I had back pain daily for about a year after doing some serious remodeling on my house. 

Eventually I went to see my doctor who took an XRAY of my lower back and prescribed Physical Therapy. The XRAY was normal, but I wasn't getting better after a month of PT. I was getting depressed about it, and was wondering if I would have to get surgery for relief (Please don't get surgery without seeking as much info about it as possible). An MRI was done just about the time I had finished reading the book. The MRI showed mild disc bulging in the L4-L5 space, but nothing that wouldn't be considered normal wear and tear, as confirmed by my physician. Once I got this assurance via the MRI and after reading the book, my back pain went away within a week...completely gone. 

Does this not sound like a mind body connection?

Since that time, I have had some transient back soreness every once and a while, which is expected since I am an active guy who has never been very good at keeping good posture or kicking back on my days off. But since taking ownership of my back pain and adopting a multi-disciplined philosophy, one of which is Dr Sarno's, I have come to a better understanding the source of my back pain and how I can best prevent it from happening. For example, the exercises/ principles taught by my physical therapist were valuable and I try to incorporate them into my lifestyle. I also try to incorporate Dr Sarno's philosophy of the mind-body connection to understand that my actions/ emotions can have an impact on the health of my body. 

I am a classic case of someone who gets stressed easily and tenses up without even realizing it, until my back muscles tell me I need to relax. The pain is real. The pain is not "in your head" as some people have misinterpreted from Dr Sarno's book.

Basically, you have to come to terms with your own body. It is your body, and you can have a strong influence over it's well being through your emotions and behavior.
 
I don't know how else to make this any clearer. Don't give up! Giving up is not a solution to a probelm that rests with you.  
