I think the audio CD may be the way to go on this book as opposed to the printed form. I noticed other reviewers didn't like the printed book for various comic strip graphics; this was obviously non existant and thus not disappointing in the audio CD (the way I chose from the library)

 The narrator of the story is Carol Monda, and her voice is adequate, not melodramatic or tiresome. She does all the voices of characters in this story, and it works. But let's get to the story:

Although some reviews have suggested that Picoult tried to include too many themes in this story, I don't agree. The crafting of it and the detail worked for me. Fascinating portrayal of marriage, parenthood,adolescenct angst, and rape told by the main characters in the story (a family). Trixie, a 14 year old girl raised by a father (Daniel Stone) who is an artist and her mother  who is a classics professor at a university.  So from the beginning, it's refreshing because it's told from the perspective of a "stay at home Dad" and the relationship he has with his daughter, and his wife. Gradually, the reader/listener learns about Daniel Stone's past and childhood, about the kind of father and husband he is. 

Early into the book, it also becomes suspenseful due to the crime factor of alleged rape. Point of view occasionally shifts to the police detective on the case, although I found this character somewhat flat. Note: there is explicit description of various sexual acts and the collection of evidence after a rape. This was completely in line with the story, current in today's society, and not tawdry or excessive, in my opinion. 

I found the pace quick, and expect it would be a page turner. It took about 13.5 hours of listening time on CDs. 

The author heavily uses metaphor and simile, sometimes to the point of distraction, although it is all effectively written. I especially enjoyed the allusions between the story line and the classics lectures on Dante's Inferno, woven into the book through Laura Stone's profession. Even if you have never read Dante, Picoult makes it accessible and relevant. You might even find yourself wanting to read Dante's Inferno after you finish the book.

I wouldn't say the outcome was obvious, although I did correctly predict the ending of the story about halfway through. It would have been better if it had not turned out the way I expected; still, it was intense at times, moving and painful.

Characterizations are rich and detailed.  A portion of the story is told in the setting of Alaska,with native language and it adds to the texture and tone of the story. Several native words are used, pronounced and defined in a clear way, to enrich the narrative and tie in symbolically and literally one part of the tale to another. As the cover photograph suggests, the setting is cold, the language is evocative of just such a bitter winter. 

Recommede
