I love this book, and I really am a huge Marc MacYoung fan. I would really like to take this opportunity to answer the critics. First of all, there have been a lot of reviews of this book that basically say "how can we know that Marc has real street experience". Well, true. But how do we know anyone has real street experience ? Like, um, how do we know that Geoff Thompson is not a computer IT consultant who wrote his bouncer bio while riding the train to and from work - i.e. making it up ? the truth is, we don't. But, I have to say, from reading a LOT of what Marc MacYoung has written, it has never crossed my mind that he is not for real. In fact, he makes a big deal about saying how the "street" sucks. Also, the gangs that shot at him were probably Mexican gangs in the 1970s or 1980s, not today's gangs. also, regarding knife fighting, he states very clearly that he spent his "knife fighting career" either running away, or retreating. I doubt that if Marc had made it all up, he would state that. It just sounds too realistic to me. Also, see his website www.nononsenseselfdefense.com. That also looks real. I also doubt that Peyton Quinn would associate with Marc, if Marc were a "wannabe". Unless Quinn is too, which I also seriously doubt. 

Yes, Marc's book is highly silat/kali/wing chun based, but so what ? those are great arts. I do silat, and it is by far one of the most street-effective arts out there. I like the fact that this book is principle-based. for example: take the centerline seems like really good advice to me. Also, many, many people (and I do JKD, so I know), will say, "whoever hits first wins", but Marc makes the point that he has seen guys hit first and then get thrown across a pool table by a guy who could "eat the punch". How often do even the best boxers get a k.o. with ONE PUNCH ? I doubt even Ali or Tyson in his prime could win a street fight that way. One main point in this book is takedowns are a MUCH more effective way to win a real fight than beating someone with your fists, or [worse yet] with kicks. The reason is, many people can "eat" incoming punches if they really want to get to you. However, noone can battle gravity if you throw them down. AND, the floor is very hard. I know this because I have done takedowns on the street, and I can tell you, they DO work. The thing Marc says about protecting the bad guy's head in order not to go to jail also totally rings true, and was totally also my experience, in that I once put an old aggressive drunk down, and had to protect HIS head in that way, to avoid really hurting him. 

Anyway, the real hype to my are some of the critiques of Marc. he is the real deal, as far as I can tell. This is a great Martial arts, self defense book.
