This is a very detailed account of American History from 1788-1800 - which is from the ratification of the Constitution to the end of the John Adams administration.  Unless you are very interested in this period of American History I would not recommend it.  It is not an easy read for someone who has a more general interest in American History.

The authors do an excellent job of organizing and explaining the political events during this critical period of our nation's history.  It is called The Age of Federalism because it is during this time that those in favor of a more robust and powerful central (federal) government established the framework for how the constitution would operate in practice.  The two most important figures were George Washington and Alexander Hamilton.  John Adams could be added to this list only as a result of his becoming the second President of the United States.  His truculent personality, lack of executive experience, and inability to foster working relationships with other "Federalists" contributed to Jefferson's ascension to the Presidency 1800 and the end of The Federalist Era.

This was a period of time that saw the informal creation of what were, essentially, political parties.  They were not political parties in the modern sense, but two loose factions existed that broke along very fundamental conceptions of how the government should operate.  Opposite the Federalists were "the Republicans" led by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.  

Several key political issues divided these factions.  The most important was how much power the federal government should actually have.  The Federalists wanted a strong federal government, while Republicans leaned toward a less powerful central government with more authority residing in the states.  There were also other divides: Jefferson's idealistic (and unrealistic) conception of the country as yeoman farmers versus the Federalist's desire to foster mercantilism.  The Federalist were supposedly pro-British, while the Republicans pro-France - with reactions to the French Revolution playing a key role in factional politics.  And to some degree Federalist were seen as desiring a more elitist governing structure with limited participation by the populace in selecting the highest offices coupled with a strong executive branch, versus the supposedly more populist Republicans who desired more power in the more "popular" branches of government - the legislative branch and state governments.  The issues of standing armies, taxation, and a national bank, among other issues, all were part of this divisive period.

By the time Jefferson became president the federal government and its foundation were clearly established and its legitimacy secured, which is what made this era so critically important in the nation's history.
