I had read suggestions over the years that the Roosevelt (FDR) Administration had a weak and obstructionist policy towards the plight of the Jews in Europe in the years leading up to WWII.  Unfortunately, I let this book sit on the bookshelf for nearly twenty years before I got around to reading it.  I was appalled at the extent of US governmental indifference and interference!  One of the major problems facing the Jews who could sense the imminent danger in Germany was that of finding some place to move to.  Most of the Western world did not want to accept them as refugees and especially in the numbers that were materializing.  As the grandson of an immigrant, I had written a term paper on the US immigration policy with apparrent pride when I was in junior high school.  I understood the various quota systems that favored North Western Europeans and heavily discriminated against those of other races.  I had understood the reasons that it took two of my grandfather's brothers so long to immigrate here.  I understood why many immigrants went to Canada instead (including the fact that Canada is a fine country).  I had understood the laws requiring that persons coming to this country needed to provide proof that they would be able to provide for their own support once they got here.  However, Arthur Morse gave examples after examples of how all of the existing immigration laws were twisted, tightened and squeezed to keep the Jewish refugees from finding a new home here.  We were just another country that left them to fend helplessly for themselves in Nazi Germany.  "While Six Million Died" is a difficult book to read for an American.  It is a reminder of the anti-semitism that generations after the Holocaust find hard to understand.  At best Americans can say that their government's behavior at the time wasn't any worse than that of other governments.  The shame is that it wasn't any better either.  America has faced its' disgrace over its' past racism and the scandal of the Japanese internment camps.  However, I have not noticed much ado about the issues that Morse raises in "While Six Million Died".  That is why this is such an important book to read
