The Kiss is the second book I have read by Danielle Steel so far. It was great. My first book of hers I read was The Wedding. I highly recommend that one. Both are excellent books. I love romantic books. They suit my personality beautifully. I even have considered trying to write a love story, with my own experiences. Real life is a lot better and more complex then fiction ever could be. But I do like fiction as much as I love biography or autobiography. Any genre is fine by me. 
 
This is an inspirational book. It deals with disability and how people overcome hurdles in their path. It has some touching moments. Some moments I adore. In the hospital. And one person's strength to bring someone between life and death back to life. No matter what the resulting burdens may be, after a horrific car accident with a bus during one long and only everlasting kiss. 
 
Two people in strained marriages. One with an invalid boy and daughter. The other in another loveless marriage and affairs. The only contact they share is moments from time to time during the year, and phone calls. That keep their lives fullfilled. Two people who love each other but cannot take the next step to make their lives better and be together. Mainly due to commitment to husbands and wives. No matter how hopeless or worthless an existence it may be with their partners. Yet slowly things are unravelled and secrets that have lay hidden for years are exposed. 
 
I think I have made a pretty good summary of the book for people who don't know the book I read. I think it is worth reading. The story seems quite simple and it is. But like always, I am surprised how things turned out and the marvellous twists and turns the story takes. To secure Danielle's place in romantic fiction for sometime to come. I would read more of her books. They are lovely. 

I wanted to read 'The Kiss' because I felt it was so perfect for me. I love kissing girls. Friendly kisses more then boyfriend/girlfriend type kisses. I know it may sound strange but I think to fully understand it, and my e mails sometimes you may have to meet me. Or a least listen to my voice on tape one day. To pick up on some of the humour I like to inject into my e mails most of the time. And sometimes how I see the world and live my life. As movie-orientated as it is. 
 
Danielle Steel is pretty light reading usually. She's the best! I don't really want to read Barbra Taylor Bradford. Although I do wish they would make a movie of 'The Wedding'. It would be so good. It would be harder to make a movie that affects people with 'The Kiss'. But since I read the book, I'd be happy to watch any resulting movies they might make. I haven't seen any Danielle Steel books adapted to movies. I'm sure they are extreamly sappy. But I can handle it I think.  

I don't think I will read all of her books, just the ones that look most interesting to me. 'The Wedding' was special because I have never been to a wedding before. 'The Kiss' was good because I love to kiss girls. Plus I am a pretty affectionate person. I also think quite tactile too. I'd take any opportunity to give someone a hug or show affection. I am full of compliments usually.  
