Here is another superb entry in beloved nature writer Jean Craighead George's informative and thrilling ONE DAY. . . series.  The award-winning author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, and more than eighty other wildlife books for young readers does a great job of bringing to life the magical setting of the tropical rain forest.  Tepui, a young boy who lives in Venezuela's Tropical Rain Forest of the Macaw, befriends some biologists who are studying the rain forest.  To his and the scientists' dismay, the rain forest is scheduled to be chopped down and destroyed one afternoon.  The only way to save it is to find a special butterfly that has never before been identified and present it to a wealthy businessman who wants to name the butterfly after his daughter.  So Tepui and his friend Dr. Rivero--a lepidoptorist--set out to find the elusive insect.  But the human characters are only a small part of the story.  The rain forest is alive with thousands of species of creatures--amusing ones like a leisurely sloth, and creepy ones like flesh-eating ants.  There are birds of all the colors of the rainbow, mammals like jaguars and tapirs, magnificent tree giants, and, of course, millions of insects.  This is a fascinating glimpse, written in a fast-paced minute-by-minute style, into an environment so complex and diverse that there are many creatures who don't even have names, and have never seen humans.  It is also an important story that all young people should pay attention to to better understand their natural world and help to preserve its unique magnificent ecosystems.  Other titles in the series are: ONE DAY IN THE. . .ALPINE TUNDRA, PRAIRIE, DESERT, and WOODS.  Any ecologist will also want to check out Jean Craighead George's Eco-Mysteries series: WHO REALLY KILLED COCK ROBIN?, THE CASE OF THE MISSING CUTTHROATS, THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO, and THE FIRE BUG CONNECTION.  These include information on chemicals, the ozone layer, human development, and how these things threaten our wild places and creatures
