


Augie March is Saul Bellow.  

What an effective technique, writing a novel about yourself, an autobiography really, because you can play with the facts and draw on your experience to make the best of both worlds.  It has to be such, because this long book is full of so much intimate detail.  

Oh, of course, Augie March's adventures are not all true, not all of them.  It's fictionalized for effect, but it's just truer in some respects than many novels.  Maybe that also explains why it seems to drag and get boring so often.  

Knowing nothing of Saul Bellow's life, I can't really say how much Saul and Augie resemble each other, but I'm sure there's a knowledgeable English professor out there somewhere who has studied and written about Bellow, his life, his works, and their interweaving.  

Those who can't do, teach, or maybe they write.  Augie admits that he can't do much, so he writes to fill up the empty space in his life. 

Augie narrates the entire story in the first person, just as an autobiographer does.  However, Augie is not an "important" personage, at least not in the public's eye, so his story is "fiction," so to speak.

However, it is interesting.  This is my first reading of Bellow.  I know he became highly respected as he continued to write, and I do intend to read more of his oeuvre.

He's verbose and a little confusing at times, but nevertheless, he's interesting, him and Augie both, Augie being his alter ego.

Augie March is the second son in a small and relatively poor family.  His father has disappeared.  His mother is passive and a surrogate grandmother moves in to rule the young household.  This all takes place on Chicago's South Side toward the end of the 1930's, and we then follow Augie through the end of the Second World War, when he ends up in Paris helping to run some kind of black market operation on surplus Army supplies.

Augie's brother, Simon, marries into a family with money and then makes his own fortune.  In the book's last chapter, we get the denouement of Simon's life story, an ill-fated tryst with a paramour who then tries to sue him.  

Augie, meanwhile, meanders here and there, in a seemingly aimless path, keeping a journal because of all the free time he has, so he tells us.

He takes up with various women, rich and poor, does some petty crime with an old homeboy, and reads constantly, whenever he can, educating himself.  

He breaks a bone falling off a horse while training an eagle in Mexico with his girlfriend, so the military will not accept him, and instead, he joins the Merchant Marines.  His boat is blown to bits and he finds himself, along with the ship's carpenter, as the lone two survivors, as far as they know.  This part is hard to believe, among other parts, but who cares?  It's real enough.

All through his narration, Augie gives us various philosophical tidbits to think about, for example, when he and his boat mate, the ship's carpenter who has a degree in biophysics or some such are discussing why humans get bored and amoebas don't.  A question I often ask myself, sort of.

Or Augie writes: "People don't do what they have a talent for but what the preoccupation leads to...(for example) If they're good at auto-repairing they have to sing Don Giovanni...It's having to prove full and ultimate self-sufficiency or some such monster dream that you don't need anyone else to do these things for you."  

This little bit of Augie's philosophy really hit home with me, and it described my feelings "to a tee" (so to speak).  

Augie's romantic experiences never quite spill over into the profane or pornographic, but they get close.  He travels to a small town outside of Mexico City (Acatla) to be with one sweetheart, a rich and eccentric young woman who finally jilts him, though he was first untrue to her.

There are too many other characters in Augie's narration to even keep track of.  I started highlighting people's names, to help me remember them, because they keep recurring, just as people come and go in each of our lives.  Nevertheless, it did not help: I still could not keep everyone straight in Augie's long story.

Augie's brother, Simon, stands out, and his mentor, Einhorn, the crippled man who still manages to make it the best way he can.  The Mexican, Padilla, is an interesting character, an apparent mathematical genius, and with a good heart.  

Augie's women are not very appealing.  His mother is kindly but seemingly lost due in part to loss of vision as she aged.  Grandma Lausch is too much of an autocrat, small kingdom or no.

Augie's Greek girlfriend, Sofie, seems good-hearted and she certainly was not a prude.  

Stella, a minor actress whom he ends up marrying after meeting her in Mexico, is pleasant, up to a point, but later Augie learns about her "sugar daddy" and a little habit Stella has of not telling the truth.  

Anyway, the crux of the matter is that, if you like long and involved novels, that go nowhere and everywhere at the same time, this is your book.  

It's nothing like the quick and dirty novels that cloy the best-seller lists today, but it should hold up over time, especially for the unique perspective of Augie March, aka Saul Bellow, growing up in the Chicago of that era.  

In that geographic respect, Augie/Saul share Chicago with Nelson Algren, although he was a little bit later in sequence, and with Nelson's friend, Studs Terkel, the "working" person's writer.

Diximus.

  

 
