When I read Atlas Shrugged, I could not help feeling the novel was almost science fiction in its depiction of a world where capitalism is not allowed to flourish freely because the government tries to regulate it, and consequently, the intellectuals and inventors abandon the rest of society. And then, I read Ayn Rand's first novel, We The Living, and within the first few pages realized she was not only depicting the very world that would exist if the government controlled everything, but that such a world had existed in the Soviet Union, and she had been a first hand witness to it. Atlas Shrugged was less a fantasy than a nightmare she had already lived through without as successful an ending as her greatest novel.

The novel begins at the end of the Russian Revolution and depicts the lives of several of the younger generation trying to survive in the increasingly communist world as the state squelches individual freedom more and more. Having myself grown up during the Cold War, I foudn the novel rang true to many of the stories I heard about life in the Soviet Union--people standing in line for hours for a little bit of food for example. What is amazing is that it was written by someone who actually lived through those experiences in the early 1920s in Russia.

Ayn Rand states the novel is "as near to an autobiography as I will ever write. The plot is invented, the background is not. I was born in Russia, I was educated under the Soviets; I have seen the conditions of existence that I describe." One wishes she had written more of an autobiography because she states the main character Kira's experiences are not her own, although her ideas and convictions are.

The novel follows Kira as she attends the university where true learning is replaced by learning only about the state, communism and Marxist idealogies. Kira submits to this social pressure to survive and to help her family, but she cannot come to believe these ideologies. The living conditions of the novel are intolerable as people are crammed, entire families into one or two rooms of a compartment, as people must wear worn out clothes because there are non new, and worst of all, as people are unable to think or discuss anything except the socialist ideologies.

Saddest of all is Kira's attempts to find love. Both men she becomes involved with are unable to stand on their own because they fear the state or try to work underground to make money to survive because they cannot feed themselves in a society that does not allow free enterprise. Kira finds herself caught between these two men as she tries to survive and help them. In the end, she can help no one except herself and she makes her decision to escape abroad. Most readers I think will be disappointed by the ending, and I think Rand could have provided a stronger one to affirm life, but the final pages are dramatic and suspenseful.

The novel is not as pointed or as much of a page turner as Atlas Shrugged, but it makes one understand better the events that led Ayn Rand to develop her philosophy of objectivism. The reader is left wanting to know more about the history of the Russian Revolution and communism. The book reminds one of the more popular Dr. Zhivago, although it is questionable if that book is any more powerful. Most of all, one wants to learn more about Ayn Rand's personal life in Russia and how she escaped to America. I intend to read an autobiography of Ayn Rand next.

- Tyler R. Tichelaar, author of Iron Pioneers and The Queen City, available on Amazo
