As one who has lived in societies where contact with the dead and experience of the paranormal is quite common, the different approaches to  these phenomena between those societies and the West is remarkable.  The  'materialistic' West is rediscovering and experimenting with a whole range  of areas which used to be regarded as 'esoterica' but is now loosely  subsumed under the term 'New Age'. But by contrast, the approach in the  West to  communications from the other side via mediumship or channeling is  to be from &quot;Masters&quot;, or the benevolently disposed disceased who  have suddenly become enamoured with qualities of wisdom and understanding  never approached during their lives on earth. Joe Fisher was already a well  known journalist and writer on the occult and new age when he had the  opportunity to meet his 'spiritual guide' on the other side.  His eager  interest aroused from these encounters soon led to entranced fascination,  and a subjugation of his own responsibility for life descisions to the  advice of the loving guide.  After losing an important relationship and  then discovering gaps and inconsistencies in historical information, he  began to be more meticulous in his communication with the guides.   Supported by copious transcripts of sessions, and historical research, he  innocently challenged them over some clear inaccuracies, still naively  thinking his own 'darkened' state made him incapeable of perceiving their  wisdom in these matters.  The transcripts of these questioning sessions  show that these benevolent guides, from being initially cajoling and  dismissive, soon move to emotional blackmail and finally to threats. The  benevolent love disappears and we see behaviour as manipulative, deceitful  and malevolent as from the lowest of earthly miscreants.  Fisher's  methodology of taping sessions (originally to preserve the wisdom) allows  him to return to the material and pursue intelligently and determindly the  irregularities and deceits.  What gives this book some of its dramatic  power is how the sessions show Fisher still trying to overcome his  perceived inadequacies of comprehension in the face of the self  incriminating lies of the guides, long after a sceptical reader can see  through them.  Fisher's experience, not merely recounted but supported by  copious transcrpts, leads him to question who these beings are, and what  purpose they fulfill in their contacts with the still living.  He suggests  that these are the so called &quot;hungry ghosts&quot; (as described in  Tibetan lore), still earthbound, who use mediums receptivity for their own  ends.  The West's new plunge into the esoteric should not be undertaken  &quot;When spirits begin to speak with man...things are fabricated by them  and they lie&quot;. Swami Bhakta Vishita warned of &quot;a mischevious  class of entities who impersonate other spirits&quot;.  Iamblichus, the  leading neo-Platonist of his time, unmasked an alleged Apollo speaking  through a medium who was only the ghost of a gladiator.  Is it any wonder  that John, the forth Evangelist urged &quot;Test the spirits&quot;?  - an  injunction that anyone reading &quot;Hungry Ghosts&quot; will not forget
