The Legend of Sleepy Hollow strays significantly from many of the retellings of the classic story. I had always expected it to be an innocent and bland work of fiction, but upon reading the story and analyzing it for detail, I was surprised at the darker elements that the cartoon and movie versions of the story failed to yield. It was extremely hard to discern any type of theme or motif from the retellings, but reading the book and taking in all of its rhetorical style, I was able to recognize some definite patterns and messages it hid. The book emphasizes the harmful nature of obsessive beliefs, like the belief of the existence of the Headless Horseman, with which Ichabod Crane is indoctrinated. Irving apparently wants to point out the fact that such preoccupation with legends and superstitions often end in tragedy and the demise of the protagonist; Irving creates a character that is the example of false indoctrination, and concludes the book by bringing the tragic disappearance of Ichabod, which points at the idea that Irving is against the faith Ichabod puts into a myth. 


Throughout the book, Irving gives obvious examples of some of the dark elements present in the story. In the exposition of the story, Irving warns readers that they are about to enter a sleepy land that is open to many supernatural happenings. The mythical events that happen in the land correspond to ideas of dark romanticism that incorporated nature and fantastical occurrences. However, not the entire book is plagued with dark and serious elements. For example, the character of Ichabod Crane is intended to be a comic figure, because Irving assigns odd characteristics to him, such as an abnormal nose and gangly frame. Through such depictions, Irving creates a Yankee type of character that introduces humor into the otherwise gloomy mood of the story. 
I would recommend this book because it is an easy read, despite the fact that some vocabulary words are quite uncommon. There are hidden aspects of the book that will be sure to please the reader upon discovering them. Finally, this book is a classic and an overall interesting and unique tale that satisfy the reader.
