
After spending two summers with Tibby, Lena, Bridget, and Carmen via the first two books in the series, I've grown to care about these characters.  In this book/summer, a lot of things happened to them, good/bad.

Tibby's story line is usually most compelling, but this time it took a back seat to (surprise!) Carmen's story, which I'll get to later.  Tibby getting over the trauma of an accident her sister has and adapting to her changing relationship with Brian was certainly the story I felt was easiest to relate to, but Brashares didn't seem to want to spend that much time on Tibby this time around.

Lena's story is also shortchanged too, but for good reason.  Not a lot happens to her.  What DOES happen to her is monumental for the character, but in terms of Lena taking up page space... she just doesn't.  For the most part, her sections of the book consisted of her drawing the faces of her family and others.  It worked well, but I wouldn't have minded another subplot.

Bridget is back at soccer camp.  Thank God there was hardly anything written about soccer.  Her story line wasn't as interesting as her part in the second book, but it made sense for her character and was, in a way, beautiful.  She has developed most out of all the characters.

Carmen, to me, has always been the most unlikable.  She's rash, sometimes mean, and places blame everywhere but in herself.  And this time, she manages to have the best story line in the book.  And more subplots then you can juggle.  Her mom's pregnant.  She has a crush on a guy who she thinks only likes the "good" side of her.  She tries juggling her good/bad side.  And finally, she's hired to take care of Lena's grandmother.  I feel this subplot should have been given to Lena, but it did turn out well.

Ann Brashares has become a great writer at this point.  She knows just how much to give, and just how much to hold back.  All the points where you're supposed to smile/cry/laugh/gasp, you do.  The dialogue is realistic, and the narrative is nearly flawless.  This book was a great, nearly perfect, read.  However, I hope that all the story lines aren't consumed by Carmen again next time.

9/1
