Perhaps it is not accidental that the work of the Aristotle, the student who explored so clearly and deeply all the externals and interactions of nature and Man, is recorded as tedious, repetitious, complex lecture notes while Plato the teacher who tried to find all the answers within the confines of his own head is recorded as lucid, lively dialogue.  Aristotle the rube was evidently too busy observing, cataloging, teaching - living, to write it all down in an organized coherent whole while Plato the aristocrat was at first desperate to capture all he could remember then to expand upon the works of his revered master, Socrates, trying desperately to walk in his sandals.  I think maybe with Aristotle there was just too much material, to much to know, and the thing he did best was know.  So here is the country boy with that horrible Macedonian accent but regal connections come to study at the Academy, to learn from the very best, and in the end, the thought he produces far surpasses all that the best laid before him.
 
How is the community of Man best organized?  That is the concern of Aristotle's "Politics".  Plato had more or less just conjured up an ideal "Republic" based on his interpretation of Socrates.  But that was not enough for Aristotle.  He traveled, he learned, he catalogued everything and human organization and systems of government and were at the top of his list.  And he did this traveling analysis at a unique time when all possible permutations of human social organization were up for a try, from the dynamic democracy of the tiny city-state to the decrepit tyranny of the Persian Empire.  With this catalog, he could not just conjecture as to what government might work best but make solid statements of fact about the consequences of various human organizations and recommendations about what works best under what circumstance.  And we live with the result of his systematic pursuit.  As one reads (or re-reads) this the very foundation of Western political thought, images of Madison flipping pages of a well warn and well loved edition to find a particular passage as he pens drafts of the Constitution of the United States of America flash by time and again.  The result of his obvious reference to Aristotle was a thriving republic that has grown and flourished providing freedom and the possibility of a good life for millions.  What grew from Plato was the horror of the Soviet Union.  But I have betrayed my prejudice.  One must read both and in order, Plato first to discover the thoughts that inspired Aristotle's questions then Aristotle to find the answers.

That said, I must reiterate, this book is exceptionally tedious, repetitious and complex (though not intellectually difficult).  Thousands of people have made careers analyzing it and commenting on it.  It is not for everybody but Mortimer Adler's "Aristotle for Everybody" is.  That book is a brief, well written compendium, a distillate, of all we have of Aristotle.  To go through a life and not read at least that is to miss some of the best thinking ever done by a human.
