As a person who has been on antidepressants for over 8 years and developed severe neurological conditions while on them, I can't recommend this book highly enough. It was suggested to me by one of my doctors after constant testing could find no physical cause for my neurological problems. There were no lesions, no tumors, no spinal anomolies yet there I was with severe myoclonus among other things.

First of all, it was explained to me at the outset that depression like mine was cyclic. I should be able to get off the medication after a year and a half and not expect the depression to come back for some time afterwards whereupon I would again have to undergo depression. It was not explained to me that serious side effects could occur such as memory problems, withdrawal symptoms, ticks, twitches and loss of mental acuity.

I've taken three different antidepressants and what I experienced is sort of like a muffler on a car. The medications muffle my anxiety, my depression, my pain at being alive in this world. They don't fix anything however. A muffler on a car will blunt the noise of the engine but if there's something wrong with the engine, it will blunt that sound too.

As I've come down off of antidepressants, each time the dose was lowered, I've experienced a fierce reoccurence of my primary neurological symptoms. Then those symptoms will calm again until the dose is dropped again.

I find this book to contain very well documented information. Dozens of clinical studies and reports are cited as well as the author's own personal observations. The studies and reports are largely available to be read by anyone who requests a copy, not just within the pages of this book. I recommend that anyone who is considering a long term treatment via these sorts of drugs should read this book beforehand, especially if their hmo or general practitioner has suggested it. As the author points out, many unqualified physicians are being pressured to throw a pill at us for the least sign of even normal anxiety or melancholy.

Don't let a pill muffle you
