Wolves of the Calla, in my opinion, does the best job of any Dark Tower book so far of telling a story about people's lives in the world of the Dark Tower.  In prior books, the towns/cities that were traveled through were secondary to the journey to the Dark Tower (Tull, Lud, Topeka, etc.).  Calla Bryn Sturgis, however, is the entire focus of this book, and while that may make some answer-hungry readers upset, I still found that I enjoyed it immensely.

The ka-tet of Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy are on their journey under the beam, headed toward the Dark Tower, when they are interrupted by a group of people from a town up ahead.  These people are in a dire situation, and need the help of the gunslingers.  Every twenty years or so, a group of "wolves" comes out of the east, and takes one of every twin in the town (twins are the norm in this world).  The twins aren't killed, but they come back "roont," which is to say their brains have been basically sucked dry.  The ka-tet meets a man who will be familiary to many King fans, Father Donald Callahan ('Salem's Lot).  Callahan lives in the town now, and is one of the main proponents for using the gunslingers to take out the wolves.  Callahan also has a secret: in his church he holds one of the colors of the Wizard's rainbow, and he offers it to Roland if they will help rid the town of the curse of the wolves.

If all this weren't enough, Susannah has reverted back into her previous schizophrenic state.  She has created a whole new personality, Mia, who is the mother and protector of the "baby" that Susannah is carrying inside of her.  

Wolves of the Calla was completely different from what I was expecting when I picked it up.  Frankly, the book has very little to do with the Dark Tower when compared to the previous books in the series.  Of course, the tower is constantly in the back of everyone's head, but the main focus of the novel is defeating the wolves that take the children from Calla Bryn Sturgis.  In this novel, I feel that King has created the best villains yet in the series.  He does a great job making the reader truly hate the wolves, and you cannot wait for the climactic battle.

It is also very interesting what King is doing with the whole idea of things from our world being true in their world.  The wolves have a few weapons at their disposal that might (should) seem very familiar to you.  The whole idea of Callahan now being in the world of the Dark Tower opens up a whole bag of tricks.  And it is apparent that King is going back into this bag with a revelation that comes near the end that involves a certain author we all know and love.

But, of course, it wouldn't be Stephen King, and it wouldn't be a Dark Tower novel if there weren't a few crazy twists thrown in just for good measure
