I am appalled by the complete disregard that often occurs on the ACTUAL events of American history. As a biracial woman who is currently doing research for my own degree on this very subject matter, I find it unbelievable that once again the brutal history of lynch mobs committing horrific atrocities towards black men, women and children goes unquestioned by so many. I am happy that Romano was able to write an honest and critical review of a period in time which still resonates.

Black men were often lynched for reasons other than an interracial union, including the attempt at voter participation as well as owning successful businesses. After the Civil War and during Reconstruction, more than ten thousand black men were lynched by "white mobs". Very few were ever arrested or brought to trial for their actions. That's a fact, not a statement issued out of racist motivations or lack of historical study.

Black men were lynched, meaning severely beaten, hung and their genitalia cut off at even the HINT of an interracial union between a black man and a white woman. In 1955 one of the most infamous lynch incidents occurred and was in newspapers and magazines across the nation. Emmett Till, a fourteen-year-old boy who called a white woman "baby" was kidnapped that same day by the woman's husband and brother and was severely beaten and shot. The mother held an open casket because she wanted to show what they had done to her son who made the mistake of crossing the line. 

Often, White men raped black women without provocation and these women had no recourse or protection of the law. The sexual exploitation of both black men and women began under slavery through forced breeding and the rape of black women. Law forbidding interracial unions preserved the taboo of interracial relationships and upheld the racial hierarchy in this country. 

Romano focuses on Black male/White female unions because it was the most taboo and is still considered the most controversial interracial union. Interracial unions occurred, but they were often outside the bounds of marriage and were not commonly accepted, if and when, they were voluntary. During the early 90s, both white and black people married same race over 90% of the time. The trend has not changed very much since then, although more white men are marrying/dating Asian women. In fact, it is the largest demographic for interracial unions currently.

For anyone interested in this period of time, this is a good read about a subject that is often the source of controversy
