I have read my fair share of books on Osama, the current terrorist threat etc. and I think this book is by far the most detailed and clear view of who Osama is.  The author is from the American intelligence community and, like his other book Imperial Hubris, gives you his view of the topic in straight shooter prose that is guaranteed to get your attention.  And getting you attention is exactly what this author claims to wants to do.   He is extremely concerned about the threat that Osama and his crew of terrorists pose to the United States and about every other western democracy.  Along with this concern he is also upset, to the point of despondence, with the somewhat lacking and half measured response that the western countries have so far engaged in.   He wants you to know that we have never faced this type of threat and if we do not take our response up multiple levels, we will be rewarded with suffering theretofore not thought of.

During the book I found myself wondering if the author did not have some sort of positive view of Osama, after all he talks about the man with almost the same type of respect as say one would talk about our own military heroes.  The more I read I came to believe that this respect is not to be confused with admiration, but probably more closely aliened with fear.  Probably the same way many people that faced Rommal in battle talked about him.  The author believes that there is no more greater threat to the U.S. then Osama and he wants you to believe the same thing.  This single mindedness had me wondering if maybe the author was not over stating the case.  Could it be possible that Osama is this all knowing, all seeing master terror operator and will be held up as the gold standard for years to come?  After all the author is from the American intelligence community and lets remember that these guys missed a few big ones over the past 20 years.   

Even though my nature is to be a doubting Thomas, I did finish the book believing most of what the author stated about the threat that Osama posses to he U.S.  I share the frustration that the author has with our seemingly misguided and at times half measured response to the threat.  This book is important as it provides a very clear and plain spoken review of the dangers we face and is a wake up call for any of our leaders that would rather focus our limited resources in other directions.  The last point I left the book with was the hope that either luck will shine on the foolish or that the rumored kidney disease escalates, and the threat from Osama is eliminated before more incident people meet a disastrous outcome.
