      The Tale of Genji, by Murasaki Shikibu is like a Heian period Soap Opera. This book follows Genji through his life and his many relationships. Although Genji is the main character, the book also explores many different subplots having to do with the people of the Heian court with whom Genji associates. The main focus of the story is Genji and his many love affairs. Genji is a beautiful and cultured man and many women are drawn to him. He takes many wives, but he also has affairs with many other women both inside and outside the Heian court. Having affairs outside the court is scandalous and he does this in secret. Every affair is different from the others. Each woman has something unique to offer Genji. 
     The book is composed of many different overlapping stories that complicate one another as the story progresses. Although Genji is the main focus, many other characters lives become part of the story. Relationships of all forms are explored through the characters. Secrets between family members are revealed. Men and women who are involved in extra marital affairs have secret children together. Men compete with each other for a certain woman's affections. People even become possessed by spirits and die. For the most part if you have seen it in a Soap Opera it has happened in this story.
      This book was obviously written for a mature audience. The relationships are described in detail and the language, or prose, is intended for an adult reader. I think the author's intention was to draw you in to the characters' lives. Once the reader knows who the main characters are, she becomes engrossed in the interplay between the different characters. I feel the author accomplished what she set out to do. Although it takes a while to become familiar with the characters, once you do you become very interested in the different relationships between the characters. There is always something scandalous or unexpected being revealed. This helps to keep the reader's interest as the story continues to progress.
       I would recommend this book to anyone interested in Heian Period Japanese culture. This book gives a glimpse into the lives of the people of this era. Although it is written in prose, it is not too difficult to read and understand. The Soap Opera-Like plot helps to keep your interest. There is always a surprise lurking around each corner.
