On the one hand, I don't have a snappy comeback for the fact that computation has been getting exponentially faster and cheaper for the past 115 years.  One could argue that it was three distinct periods of exponential growth, as opposed to one long period of double exponential growth, but exponential growth is still a pretty big deal.  When one considers that Moore's Law is good for another 10-15 years, depending on whom one listens to, it's not a big stretch to think that people will be working on what to do when Moore's Law hits the wall in the mean time.  It's not a big stretch to think that something as small as either molecules or individual atoms will be used to represent 1's and 0's.  It's not a big stretch to think that either quantum computing or biological computing will be utilized in the future, bringing a significant parallelism to computing.

I wouldn't mind having computers do some of the grunt work that humans currently do.  For example, it would be nice to mention a book, and immediately have all the Amazon reviews, weighted by the number and percentage of people who found them useful.  Kurzweil imagines it being projected on to your retina, or wired into your prosthetic optic nerve, but I'm happy with seeing on my PDA for the time being.  It's not a big stretch to think of computer systems that know me better than I do, because they observe and data mine my individual choices.  David Gelerntner talked about this five years ago.  So certain weak connotations of humans transcending biology have already been contemplated.  As I write this, I see a picture in my mind's eye of a framework where someone could select portions of a web page or a set of web pages, and request that some computation or database manipulation be done on the selected portions.

To summarize, I'm ok with what Kurzweil has said about advances in technology in the first hundred pages or so.

On the other hand, Kurzweil talks about the impacts and consequences of these advances in technology with the same glib, foregone-conclusion tone that he uses when discussing technology.  I tried imagining the other day what living to 200 would be like, and what it would be like visiting my great-great-great-great-grandchildren.  Kurzweil considers this as an unqualified good, but I believe it's a lot trickier than that.  Likewise for many other technologies.  

There are many critics of this book, and Kurzweil has tried to answer them all.  He mentioned Bill Joy's article "Why the Future Doesn't Need Us" multiple times in the course of the book, but considers Joy to be offering a friendly alternate perspective, as opposed to being an opponent of the future.  He spends the most time responding to philosophers John Searle (author of the famous "Chinese Room" thought experiment) and William Dembski (advocate of intelligent design).

Kurzweil sees us as about 40 years away from the singularity, moving on a smooth exponential path since the dawn of the universe.  I say there will be some very interesting twists and turns along the way.

