One of the most frightening aspects of this true-crime story is that theoretically, the serial killer, Jerry Brudos could be released back into the community.   He's been in the Oregon State Penitentiary for over twenty years now, manufacturing leather key fobs, collecting women's shoe catalogues, and keeping the prison's computer network humming.  If he does get his freedom, no one should be surprised if he starts collecting women's shoes again--with the feet still in them.

I found "Lust Killer" to be one of Ann Rule's most disturbing books, not in the least because a young, door-to-door encyclopedia saleswoman was Jerry Brudos's first murder victim.  Usually I can distance myself from serial killer victims, telling myself that I would never allow myself to get in a situation like that, e.g. hitching a ride on the freeway.  However, I did sell encyclopedias door-to-door while I was working my way through college, and yes, our bosses insisted that we wear high heels.  If I'd been flogging my books in Oregon, my foot might have ended up in Brudos's freezer, too.

Ann Rule, a former policewoman writes about the victims with a compassion that sometimes ventures over the border into clich.  Many are described as stunningly beautiful, innocent, soft-spoken, harmless, well-loved, kindhearted creatures who would certainly have qualified for sainthood if their lives had not been cut tragically short.  One good lesson does come out of this book though:  the author emphasizes that the victims who fought got away.  The ones who yielded or tried to talk their way out of captivity, died a gruesome death.

The author tells the story of Jerry Brudos, from several perspectives, including that of the unlucky encyclopedia saleswoman, Brudos's wife, and the homicide detectives who finally trapped and arrested him.  Mainly though, we see the serial killer through his own thoughts and actions.  I don't know how Ann Rule got into his head, but she does a very chilling job of portraying this man who preferred his sex partners dead, and who saved some very grisly souvenirs of his exploits.

One of the most pitiable victims was Jerry Brodos's clueless wife.  She was actually arrested, charged, and tried for abetting in his murders (he brought his victims to his workshop in his garage, where he tortured, murdered, and dismembered them), mainly because her neighbors and the police couldn't believe that she didn't know what was going on.  Her husband certainly gave her lots of hints:  he never let her access the freezer in the garage--if she wanted something from it for dinner, he fetched it for her; he left nude photos and moulds of women's breasts lying around in the house; he occasionally paraded around in front of her wearing women's clothing.

She was just one of those women who never challenged an authority figure, no matter how strangely he behaved.

One factual error in the book:  Wisconsin killer Ed Gein did not murder his mother as stated by the author in this book.  On December 29th, 1945, Gein's mother died after a series of strokes, and Ed felt that he had "lost his only friend and one true love. And he was absolutely alone in the world." (quoted from Harold Schechter in his book "Deviant").
