America's continual obsession with building capitalism around the world will probably lead to our downfall. Prestowitz presents a very wise and well-constructed argument about how the large new capitalist economies, especially China and India, and to some extent the EU, are taking over the lead in economic growth, manufacturing, and even research and development. Instead of blaming greedy American companies for offshoring jobs and operations more and more, Prestowitz argues reasonably that this is the natural outcome of long-term international capitalist trends, which Americans have traditionally encouraged. Meanwhile, lack of savings, abuse of the dollar standard, and the loss of the manufacturing and R&D base are making America's standards slip in ways that can't be ignored, except by short-sighted demagogues. Prestowitz's most cogent argument is that the new capitalist economies are succeeding because those nations have well-constructed and solidly-implemented economic policy goals, while such policies have never existed in America because of political ideology and an unreasonable faith in the hidden hand of the market.

After reading this book, the interested observer might have little hope for the continued health and superiority of the U.S. economy, and Prestowitz provides plenty of solid reasons to worry about our jobs and living standards. That makes most of this book very important and effective, but there is a problem with Prestowitz's proposed solutions. He mentions a few times that any American who calls attention to structural weaknesses in the economy, and suggests major policy changes, would be condemned as an idealist or even as unpatriotic. But at the same time, Prestowitz's recommendations for large-scale political changes and new economic policies, even though they would probably work if implemented, have little grounding in American political reality. In a nation where voters think they are strengthening their economic interests and job security by voting for the candidate who's against gay marriage, and where leaders can't see beyond raising funds for the next campaign, long-term economic policy endeavors of the type Prestowitz advocates would have very little chance of political support. Despite the warnings of a qualified expert like Prestowitz, Americans probably won't wake up until it's too late. [~doomsdayer520~
