+++++

This book by scientist, professor, and author Dr. Carl Sagan is his last of thirty books that was published posthumously.  It is a compilation of selected previously published articles (some of them revised) that he wrote for the publication "Parade" (which is one of the most widely circulated publications in the United States). 

This book is foremost an expression of Sagan's "thoughts" (a word in the book's subtitle).  What he does is express his thoughts on various social, political, religious, and scientific issues.  

These selected articles are divided into three parts that make up nineteen chapters.  The epilogue makes up the fourth part.  Below I shall state the "nuclei" of each chapter or article (as I see it) and give for selected articles a sample thought in quotation marks.

(I)  (6 chapters)

(1) The meaning of big numbers and their importance when dealing with complex issues.
(2) Exponentials and their relation to complex issues. 
(3) The human hunting instinct, a remnant from our past. 
"[I]f we're stranded a few hundred centuries from when we long to be--if...we find ourselves, in an age of environmental pollution, social hierarchy, economic inequality, nuclear weapons...with [ancient] emotions but without [ancient] social safeguards--perhaps we can be excused for [liking rough,  contact sports] like...football."
(4) The physics of waves, sound waves & human communication, and light waves & human sight.
"[T]he elegant machinery of the evolutionary process...has brought us into ...superb harmony with our physical environment."
(5) Four cosmic questions.  Sagan explains the details behind these questions that are as follows:
 (i) Was there ever life on Mars? (ii) Is Titan a laboratory for the origin of life? (iii) Is there intelligent life elsewhere (iv) What is the origin and fate of the universe?
(6) Expresses the idea that because there are so many stars or suns in the universe, then there are probably many planets. 

(II)  (7 chapters)

(7) Draws a parallel between a shrimp's world in an aquarium and our world.  
"With acid rain, ozone depletion, chemical pollution, radioactivity...and a dozen other assaults on the environment, we are pushing and pulling our little world in poorly understood directions.  Our...advanced civilization may be changing the delicate ecological balance that has...evolved over the 4-billion-year period of life on Earth."
 (8) Environmental concerns. 
 "Nearly all our [environmental] problems are made by humans and can be solved by humans."
(9) The job of the policymaker.  
"[P]olicymakers need--more than ever before--to understand science and technology."
(10) Thinning of the ozone layer.   
"It's hard to understand how "conservatives" could oppose safeguarding the environment that all of us--including conservatives and their children--depend on for our very lives.  What exactly is it conservatives are conserving?"
(11) Global warming. 
(12) Solving the global warming crisis. 
(13) An alliance between science and religion to solve the environmental crisis. 

(III)  (6 articles)

(14) The relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union.  Illustrates "the common enemy."
(15) Abortion (co-written with his third wife, Ann Druyan).  An excellent article that considers the science involved.
(16) Looks at codes of ethics.  Sagan asks, "[C]an we explore the matter scientifically?"
(17) Examines the technological advances in the art of mass murder from the projectiles used at Gettysburg to the nuclear weapons we have today.  Co-written with A. Druyan. 
"Today [1992], the United States and the Soviet Union have booby-trapped our planet with almost 60,000 nuclear weapons...[that] could destroy the global civilization and possibly even the human species...nuclear weapons remain our greatest danger."
(18) Examines the twentieth century in three categories: (i) Saving, prolonging, and enhancing human life (ii) Totalitarian and military technology and (iii) The revelations of science. 
 "Only in the twentieth century has technology made killing on...a [large] scale practical...Whether we will acquire the understanding and wisdom necessary to come to grips with the scientific revelations of the twentieth century will be the most profound challenge of the twenty-first."
(19) An account by Sagan of his bone marrow disease.  I admired him for looking at "Death in the eye."  The postscript of optimism for this chapter he wrote in October 1996 was probably his last published words.

(IV) Epilogue by A. Druyan (Feb. 1997).  She gives an account of Sagan's fight with complications due to his disease that he succumbed too in late Dec. 1996.

There are more than fifteen illustrations in this book.  I found most of them quite helpful and informative.

A problem I had with this book is that many times it does not seem to flow from chapter to chapter.  The reason for this is that the chapters are actually articles that Sagan wrote at various times for the publication "Parade."  I feel he should have let the reader know this at the beginning of the book (in order to prepare the reader).  Instead he leaves this explanation until the end of the book (in the acknowledgements). 

As well, I noticed that chapters 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 16, and 18 have no references.  As well, chapters 1, 4, and 17 only have one reference each.   Anyone familiar with Sagan's works knows that he always extensively references.  The major reason for not properly referencing (I think) is that he was so hampered by his disease that he could not properly complete these (which is understandable).

Despite these oversights due to overwhelming circumstances, this book provides much insight into social, political, religious, and scientific issues.  This is all done in Sagan's characteristic easy-to-read style.

Finally, before reading this book, I suggest that a potential reader examine a photograph of the Earth as seen from 3.7 billion miles away.  (Such a photo is found in Sagan's 1994 book "Pale Blue Dot.")  This will increase the impact of what is said in this book.

In conclusion, this is a fascinating and important book.  I realized after reading it why the National Science Foundation awarded posthumously Dr. Carl Edward Sagan (Nov. 1934 to Dec. 1996) their highest honor since "his gifts to [humankind] were infinite."

**** 1/2

(first published 1997; 3 parts or 19 chapters;  epilogue;  main narrative 230 pages;  acknowledgements;  references;  index)

+++++
