"The Thing on the Doorstep and Other Weird Stories" represents the second of three (to date) collections of H. P. Lovecraft's work edited and annotated by J. T. Joshi and published by Penguin.  Like the preceding volume ("The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories") the stories unfold in the chronological order of their writing, allowing the reader to both observe Lovecraft's development as a writer, and the interlinking  of his developing mythos.  The only substantial differences between this volume and the former are that this one contains more stories within the Cthulhu Mythos, and it also contains Lovecraft's two longest (and to my mind best) works.

The book begins with an introduction from Joshi that readers of the first volume will probably find disappointing as it offers no meaningful difference to that books introduction.  It seems odd that someone who has chronicled Lovecraft's life as intently as Joshi has couldn't find a different avenue of consideration, and it is unfortunate that the same facts are repeated, regardless of how important they may be to understanding Lovecraft's writing.

Fortunately, that is the only black mark against Joshi's work as he has provided exhaustive foot-noting of each story.  Sometimes whimsical and sometimes critical, these observations open up an entirely new and deeper view of the stories in "The Thing on the Doorstep and Other Weird Stories".  In particular, residents of New England in general and Rhode Island in particular will appreciate the impression that regional history and geography had on Lovecraft's writing.

As for the stories themselves, they are somewhat better generally than the first volume, which may simply be a reflection of my preference for the Cthulhu stories, or may alternately reflect that they are indeed better written (as I would argue).  The stand out contributions can be found in the final four entries, "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward", "The Dunwich Horror", "At the Mountains of Madness" and "The Thing on the Doorstep", all of which are noteworthy for both individual and common reasons.

"The Case of Charles Dexter Ward", like all four stories, continues the evolution of Lovecraft's occult mythos, but it is most noteworthy (aside from being the longest piece he ever wrote) for the way that it inverts the traditional Yankee ghost/horror story.  Lovecraft removes, or rather reassigns, the supernatural and places it instead within the realm of a vast, seemingly unfathomable but quite literally real hidden world.  Likewise, "The Dunwich Horror" plays upon these same elements, but at the same time explores the deep mystery of New England's rural regions, and the dichotomy of the bustling coast and the relatively rural interior.

"At the Mountains of Madness" is my favorite Lovecraft story, and is significant in that it represent the most concrete conveyance of facts regarding the various "Old Ones" who ruled the earth untold millennia ago.  It also helped create the adventure/techno-thriller genre which is so prevalent today and which so frequently draws occult imagery and themes (the novels of Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child being the best representation of this admittedly mixed bag).  Finally, "The Thing on the Doorstep" is interesting in that it offers a sequel of sorts to the well regarded "The Shadow Over Innsmouth".

"The Thing on the Doorstep and Other Weird Stories" comprises another nice collection of stories by Lovecraft.  However, what really makes this edition stand out among other options are the fascinating contributions of Joshi which not only flesh out individual stories, but help place them within the larger context of Lovecraft's body of work, life experience and personal philosophies.  As such, this is a book which can be enjoyed equally buy long time fans and new readers alike.

Jake Mohlman
