It is the year 1204, and Constantinople, the splendid capital of the Byzantine Empire, is being sacked and burned by the knights of the Fourth Crusade. Amid the carnage and confusion, one Baudolino saves a historian and high court official from certain death at the hands of the crusading warriors and proceeds to tell his own magical story.

Born a simple peasant in northern Italy, Baudolino has two major gifts-a talent for learning languages and a skill in telling lies, and one great flaw - absolute cowardice in the face of armed conflict. When still a boy he meets a foreign commander in the woods, charming him with his quick wit and lively mind. The commander-who proves to be Emperor Frederick Barbarossa-adopts Baudolino and sends him to the university in Paris, where he makes a number of fearless, adventurous friends, including a talentless Poet, and a love-struck former assassin turned troubadour. 

Baudolino skill at lies has created not only the myth of the Holy Grail, but the Grail itself, caused a city to be raised from swampland, and generated the infamous love letters of Abélard and Héloîse, actually the unsent love letters from Baudolino to the wife of Barbarossa, himself. Spurred by myths and their own reveries, this merry band sets out in search of Prester John, a legendary priest-king said to rule over a vast kingdom in the East-a phantasmagoric land of strange creatures with eyes on their shoulders and mouths on their stomachs, of eunuchs, unicorns, and lovely maidens. To aid him in his quest, he has a motley crew in tow, including the aforementioned Poet and troubadour, as well as an alchemist, Cabalist and assorted others.

Fans of previous Eco works will immediately note that this is the first that does not claim to be, or revolve around, an authentic re-discovered manuscript of some sort. It's also not as scholarly, or esoterically heavy, as Rose, or Pendulum. However, it's clear Eco is having fun in writing this, and after all of the pedantic scholarship of the Rose and Pendulum, one has to feel Eco is entitled to his fun. Eco takes us off the map of the known world, to the mysterious East, where a Christian King awaits the return of the 12 magi to re-unite his Kingdom with the Christian West, where nature has been set upon her head, and where the map says, "Here there be dragons". While not among Eco's best, it's still a fun read, and shows Eco's humor amidst, and as complement to, his scholarship.
