I am a rather casual football fan.  Outside of the interesting college bowl game or professional playoff, I tend to catch football only during odd moments flipping through channels.  My understanding of the game is passable but hardly excellent; it was, therefore, nice to read Michael Lewis's book The Blind Side.  I learned things, and that is always a good thing to say after reading a book.

The particular insight I got from this book is the importance of the offensive line, especially the left tackle.  While all the glory goes to the quarterbacks (and to a lesser extent, running backs and wide receivers, it is actually the left tackle that is often the franchise player and typically commands one of the highest (if not the highest) salaries on a team.  What makes the left tackle so important?  Put simply, he protects the quarterback's blind side and allows the passing game to flourish.  Often a key difference between a great QB and a mediocre one is the quality of the left tackle protecting him.

While Lewis presents a history of the position and how it helped develop the pass-happy offenses of recent years, he also tells the tale of one up-and-comer in the position.  Michael Oher, more-or-less the hero of The Blind Side is at first just a gigantic teenager growing up in the worst neighborhoods of Memphis, Tennessee.  At first, he seems destined for a short, unhappy life:  essentially illiterate and with a broken home, he gets a chance to attend a prosperous Christian high school, where his physical abilities are noticed.  

The book chronicles his rise from his impoverished roots to a top college prospect.  His success is both due to his efforts and the work of many others who realized he had real potential.  Oher was a person who was almost instantly recognized as a potentially great left tackle, but he would never get to the pros without assistance.  

The book concludes after one year of college ball at the end of 2005, so (as of this date of this review), he would still only be a sophomore and in the physically perilous world of football, his future in the game is possibly good, but also possibly short.  In the past, however, the game was his only possible chance at real success; now, however, with the help he has received, he has the chances to do other things beyond the game.

Lewis writes with the easy assurance common to good sports writers.  Occasionally, he meanders about, going off on tangents before resuming the narrative.  Fortunately, the tangents themselves are also informative.  The Blind Side is a book on evolution:  the evolution of a game (it says so right on the cover), but also the evolution of an individual.  It is a good book and recommended for any fan of football.
