Nutritionist and author Ann Louise Gittleman, M.S. and C.N.S., is currently a consultant to numerous professional organizations.  Dina R. Nunziato, C.S.W., is a psychotherapist specializing in eating disorders and  weight management.  They've teamed up to write Eat Fat, Lose Weight:  How  The Right Fats Can Make You Thin For Life.  Their book is essential reading  for anyone wanting to know the true role of dietary fat in weight control.      Gittleman starts with the premise that Americans have done themselves  more harm than good by banishing all fats from their diets.  She says that  &quot;all fats are not created equal.  In fact, certain fats boost the  body's metabolic rate and protect the heart and nerves.&quot;  She adds  that &quot;certain fats are essential to the health and vitality of every  human being, regardless of age, gender, or current weight.&quot;     The  authors describe each kind of fat and what it does in the body.  They cite  statistics showing that since Americans became obsessed with low-fat and  fat-free  diets obesity has increased significantly, the incidence of  diabetes and heart disease has increased, depression has become common, and  immune system disorders are &quot;rampant.&quot;  People obviously need  some fat in their diets, but &quot;it's the type of fat that counts.&quot;      They also discuss the role of carbohydrates and protein in the diet, and  relationship between those nutrients and fat.       Gittleman and Nunziato  devote several chapters to the healthy fats and how to include them in your  diet. They finish with the &quot;Eat Fat, Lose Weight Eating Plan,&quot;  and include sample menus and suggestions for items to keep stocked in your  pantry for when you don't have lots of time for food preparation.     They  describe their book as being &quot;about health, about achieving and  maintaining a healthy weight, as well as healthy percentages of body fat,  lean muscle tissue, and strong bones.  It is about living well and being  well throughout your lifetime.&quot;  Readers will find that Eat Fat, Lose  Weight lives up to the author's promises. -- Sandra I. Smith, Reviewe
