Roland Deschain and his ka-tet are traveling through the dense forests of Mid-World. Their quest for the Dark Tower is nearing completion, when they arrive at Calla, a village traumatized by the kidnapping of their children by the Wolves of Thunderclap. When the villagers learn that Roland and his friends are visiting, some of them hope that these gunslingers will finally bring salvation. But not everyone is convinced that getting help from foreigners is such a good idea, so Roland has to prepare his best `dance' to try and convince everyone of his good intentions. Indeed, it is important that the people of Calla get help, because that seems to be the only way the secret of Father Callahan will get released. A secret that might help the ka-tet reach their ultimate goal: The Dark Tower.

This long-awaited fifth novel of the Dark Tower saga has turned out to be a massive 714-pages counting episode. Based upon the latest produce of Stephen King, that would normally mean a rather flimsy storyline packed with some page filling nonsense. But I am happy to say that Wolves of Calla is an nice exception to the rule. Wolves is so packed with storylines, that you never get bored. Although many ongoing plotlines get developed further, almost none of them get concluded. This can only mean one thing: Stephen King is preparing for the grand finale! If King can keep up this pace in the next two episodes, I trust that the finale will be unforgettable.

One of the many enjoyable things about this series is the intention of King to make links to his earlier novels. For a King-fan this can only mean more enjoyment. Wolves of Calla has until now been the best example of this. Introducing Father Callahan, the priest that first appeared in Stephen King's Salem's Lot, has been an excellent addition to the series. Callahan does not just perform a cameo, but, without revealing too much, gets a very important role to fulfill. It also sheds another light on the original Salem's Lot story. So be warned: After finishing Wolves you will feel the urge to (re)read Salem's Lot, so make sure you have a copy in your library
