Driving from the east coast to the center of Africa isn't easy.  It takes two weeks.  Each day's drive makes it harder to turn back.  Zabeth, a small retailer, is a regular customer of the store the narrator, Salim, has purchased.  She knows what people in her village need and what they will pay.  Villagers travel on the river by dugouts.  The narrator's family is Muslim, but he is close to the Hindus of Northern India.  Europeans seem to be able to cope with change better than Indians.  The ex-patriots have a habit of listening to the BBC news.  For political reasons there is no longer any place for the narrator and his family on the coast.  Their life is changing.  

Another merchant, (really two merchants-- an Asian couple), obtains a Bigburger franchise.  Bigburger captures the refugee trade.  When colonialism ended there was a boom.  There is another boom at the time the Bigburger opens for business.  Salim learns to take African magic seriously.  

Indar, an old comrade, becomes a guest of the government at a place called the Domain, a model farm and development.  Raymond and his wife, Yvette, live in the Domain, too.  Raymond is known as the President's white man.  Salim and Indar attend a party at Raymond's where Joan Baez's music is played.  Indar tells Salim how disengaged he felt landing in London to begin his education when his lifetime, up to that point, had been spent in his community on the coast of Africa.  After receiving his education, Indar understands that Africa is filled with first-generation intellectuals.  He also understands that he has to make up his job.

Later it is decided that Raymond isn't really needed anymore, and Indar has to leave to lecture in other places.  Africanists are no longer rare, and Raymond is turned down for employment in America.  The President ceases to speak French and uses an African language.  There is insurrection.  Foreign businessmen, Salim among them, are subjected to petty harassments.  

When Salim travels to London he is brought to realize that his business and property no longer protect him.  Upon returning to Africa, he becomes a manager of his own nationalized business.  When taken into custody Zabeth's son, now a commissioner, arranges for his release.  He tells Salim to leave.  

This is a mature and thoughtful work.     
