The common theme of each of the four stories that make up Stephen King's 1982 book "Different Seasons" is the call of the storyteller, an understandable preoccupation for someone who was by then the most popular storyteller on earth. Rather than merely taking a bow, "Different Seasons" stands as perhaps King's finest hour; certainly his most compelling case for being taken seriously.

Stephen King's growing legion of fans may have had cause for worry as the newly-christened "Master Of Horror" began the 1980s. "Firestarter" and "Cujo," published in 1980 and 1981 respectively, sold well but were well beneath King's standards. The former novel even served as the basis of a devastatingly funny National Lampoon spoof, "Eggbeater." Horror stories are nice, but can one make a living from them without parodying yourself?

King asks this himself in the afterword of "Different Seasons," and it may be the basis for the most problematic of "Seasons'" four stories, "The Breathing Method," a tale so over the top in Grand Guignol it may have been King's way of mocking the expectations of his audience (and, as he suggests in the afterword, his then-editor). The other three stories are not only classics as different from each other as can be imagined, but together as far away from supernatural horror as anything King tried to that time.

The first, "Rita Hayworth And The Shawshank Redemption," presents the story as a conduit for communicating the preciousness of hope. An unjustly-imprisoned man uses his imagination to find a way out of Shawshank State Prison. Made into a film today about as highly regarded as any film ever made, King's tale here is a thing of awe, no less for being the third best story in the book.

"The Body" was also made into a highly regarded movie, "Stand By Me," but as great as that film is, it really comes alive on the page. Here the storyteller is seen as a different kind of escape artist, a boy clearly modeled on King himself who makes up stories for himself and his friends as a way of escaping a humdrum life in the Maine backcountry at the dawn of the 1960s. Captivating by itself, it is serves to set up a story about a search for a dead body that brilliantly encompasses the lost innocence of youth.

Finally, there is "Apt Pupil," probably one of the most horror-filled stories in King's corpus, and a meditation on the dark side of storytelling as a seemingly-normal California boy blackmails an ex-Nazi death-camp commandant hiding in his neighborhood into telling stories that feed the boy's evil imagination. King's mastery of narrative has never been so complete, and his way of negotiating what one Nazi hunter here calls "the catacombs of the imagination" is painfully on target, as events in Colorado later proved.

Even "Breathing Method" brings up storytelling in the form of a framing device, old men gathered at a Manhattan brownstone to tell stories and read strange books like "Twenty Cases Of Dismemberment And Their Outcomes Under British Law." There's a menacing quality to the brownstone itself, and its strange keeper, perhaps King's way of discussing his own imagination as somehow alien to himself.

Whatever the subtext, you will have plenty to chew on with the text alone. It's hard to imagine the power of storytelling put on better view than in the pages of "Different Seasons," or a stronger case for the wide-ranging nature of King's singular talent. Read and marvel
