I continue to marvel at how strong a series Patrick O'Brian has created with his beloved Aubrey-Maturin books.  Now into their ninth novel, Captain "Lucky Jack" Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin have lost none of their appeal.

One of O'Brian's best decisions was to have Aubrey and Maturin play two dramatically different roles while serving together.  Aubrey is a duty-driven fighting captain, good for plenty of gallantry and traditional British heroism.  In certain novels, such as "Master and Commander," Aubrey gets to take the lead.  Maturin, on the other hand, is a spy as well as a naturlist, humanist, and physician.  O'Brian lets Maturin take the lead in other novels where dueling broadsides play less of a role.  And thank goodness he did so, for after a few novels the stories of Aubrey leading ship after ship into combat would grow more than a little dull.

"Treason's Harbour" is one of the series' espionage-oriented novels.  The novel opens in the titular harbour in the island of Malta.  Aubrey's lucky ship "Surprise" is in for much-needed repairs, and Aubrey must confront the extortive practices of the local tradesmen in order to get his ship fixed.  Maturin must confront the attempt by the French to seduce him using a charming local lady whom they have blackmailed.  O'Brian masterfully injects humor into the scenario as Aubrey tries to rescue the lady's beloved (and mammoth) dog, who has fallen into a well.  Despite falling in himself, Aubrey rescues the dog, who thereafter treats Aubrey with such affection that the local gossip swiftly becomes that Aubrey and the lady must be having an affair.  

After this entertaining episode, it is off to the Red Sea for Aubrey and Maturin for more diplomacy.  While there is plenty of time for seamanship, this mission is more in Maturin's line than Aubrey's.  O'Brian treats the reader to several fun and thrilling passages, whether it is Aubrey trying to negotiate the desert on a camel, or Maturin using his new-fangled diving bell to explore the sea floor, or an unfortunate swimmer being devoured by a shark.  

The pages of "Treason's Harbour" will fly by as Aubrey and Maturin move from scrape to scrape, eventually ending up in a sea battle with the French.  All in all, a well-rounded entry into the Aubrey-Maturin series.  I only give this one four stars to distinguish it from the best novels in the series, but this is by no means a criticism - sometimes you must discriminate between the very good and the excellent. 
