This review is written by me,based on my reading the book,and my research...Thank you...

This is one of the best books I have ever written...It show us how life can be unfair,how some people can be left out(because of their race,colour etc),how justice can be unfair,how sometimes we can't change the inevitable.
I haven't seen the movie for this story yet.But I don't think I would any time soon.The reason is because this book touched my heart.And to watch the movie just might make me cry...I really felt sorry for Mr John Coffey in this book.He really was treated unfairly,and sadly...well let me tell you the plot(based on my research)

The main characters are three people on death row and their warders. The book has a clear narrative voice belonging to the captain of the guard, Paul Edgecombe. "The Green Mile" is the corridor from the cells where the prisoners live to the execution room beyond Edgecombe's office. Similar corridors leading to execution rooms at other prisons are called the "last mile". The linoleum flooring of this corridor is green, hence "Green Mile". The story takes place in the 1930s (the book in 1932 and the film in 1935), but there is also a framing plot where Paul is shown as an old man in a nursing home, trying to exorcise the ghosts of his past through writing.

The three prisoners come to the prison at about the same time. The story centers on John Coffey, a seven-foot black man who is convicted of raping and killing two small girls. He is notable because of his size and also for his strange behaviour -- he is very quiet and prefers to keep to himself, he weeps almost constantly, and is afraid of the dark. Coffey is described as "know[ing] his own name and not much else", and lacks the ability to so much as tie a knot, yet he is convicted of luring the girls away from their home while eluding the watchdog, requiring careful planning and abilities he would not be expected to have. He's also one of the calmest and mildest prisoners the warders have ever seen. Besides John Coffey, there are two other prisoners on the cell block during the period the book focuses on. One of them, Eduard Delacroix, a convicted arsonist, rapist, and murderer, is small and cowardly (the actions which led to his conviction being described as "the only crime he had in him"). The other, William Wharton, is tough and boasting, claiming to be a modern Billy the Kid.

The story also features Mr. Jingles, a small and unnaturally intelligent mouse who befriends Delacroix. The mouse learns various tricks and appears to follow commands; Delacroix insists that the mouse whispers things in his ear.

Over time, the warders realize that there is something else special about John Coffey, as he is revealed to possess mystical healing abilities

....enjoy....Nigel.
