This book has been around a while now. It still looks as new, vibrant and current as the first copy I was given as a gift over 10 years ago. I think it has been that long or longer probably. The point is that this book brought my family together. My dad is a pretty good artist or at least better than the average person. He will never admit that but this book put him to the test. My mom tried painting faces at one of my first birthday parties that I was old enough to remember. She grabbed this book, set up in my bedroom, she sat in a kiddies chair and let the kids come on up one at a time! Let's just say she was not as gifted an artist as she was hoping she may be. I remember my dad looking on and he suggested something with a certain brush stroke or color or whatever. The next thing you know he is sitting down in that tiny kid's chair hunched over painting faces of little kids and the line was line was backing out to the living room. He let the kids look through the book and pick out faces they wanted. I am certain it was a challenge for him. But I must honestly say that this book gave him the tools he needed to rise for the occasion. Needless to say the whole experience was a success on all levels. It was my dad who bought this book. He likes books. This book caught his eye. I remember him telling me how well designed and conceived and executed it was. He purchased it on speculation as a reference as he does with most books. He always says that you never know when you just may need it. Well, this book has a special place in my bookcase next to My Little Golden Books, The Wizard of Oz and some other books for my childhood. You never stop learning from the best. Oh yes this book is quite different from those, but you can still take it out return or learn a thing or two you may have missed. And this book is one of the best. Practically speaking, this book has everything you need to put a smile on a kid's face. If you think you can't paint or put a smile on that that little kid you should take a look at this book. Oh yes, my mom finally learned that she too could paint with a little help from this book  As for me, my turn to pick up that brush will come some day.  Many thanks are in order. 
