Books create or mold the reader intellectually as well as creatively.  The power of perception has an affect on an individual, and reinforces who people are and what they want to be.  Nicholas A. Basbanes shows readers in his book, Every Book Its Reader:  The Power of The Printed Word to Stir the World, that one's desires can be accomplished by exposing oneself to the reading of literature.  He takes into account the lives of eminent scholars, such as David McCullough, Robert Fagles, Helen Vendler, Elaine Pagles, Daniel Aaron, Matthew Bruccoli, and many others who were inspired to interpret and translate the greatest literary works of the past, which varied from history to religion.  Basbanes explores the world of the book reader, collector, and serious bibliophile.  

EVERY BOOK ITS READER is not a tribute to the greatest books ever written. However, Basbanes reminds readers the effects those books have had on people.  There are many highlights present within the book, but one worth mentioning was the discussion of James Joyce's serious approach to the reading and writing of FINNEGANS WAKE.  James exclaims that for every reader that attempts to read the text, each and every one of them should read at the same rate in which it was written in order to effectively get the gist of the semantics and sentence construction.  Despite his recommendation, the book remains one of the most challenging to read.  

From another perspective of the meaning and significance books have on the reader is Robert Coles's commentary about his friend and colleague, writer Walker Percy.  This most likely is the theme of Basbanes's book.  It may sound sentimental, but it may also ring true to those who have read an enormous book, and it has left a lasting effect.  Coles states:  "The other person's words and thoughts become part of yours, and connect with you, and reading is a kind of human connection" (263).  

In essence, Basbanes romanticizes the effects the "great" books of the past have had on scholars.  From THE ODYSSEY to THE GRAPES OF WRATH there is a longing for the past, and their presence in college literature classes may be missing.  The only flaw of Basbanes discussion is the lack or minimum participation by "other" scholarly voices of world literature.  Possibly space may have been a constraint?  Nonetheless, his narrative becomes somewhat fractured near the conclusion of the book when he briefly lists and mentions renowned African American writers of the twentieth century, and the unique story about Malcom X. 

Nevertheless, EVERY BOOK ITS READER shows readers the longevity of the printed written word.  Basbanes suggests that books will never be obsolete as long as people have an interest to venture to different lands and storylines in the form of a book.
