Written by an anonymous Monk in the 1300s, you will find this book to be very different than many other Catholic reads. As a Catholic, I found this book to be refreshing and thought-provoking, and yet even more proof that there are so many different sides to Catholicism, Catholic thought, and Catholic practice. At times, the book has a very Eastern feel to it- almost Buddhist-like- and yet at other times, it has much more of a classic-medieval-Christian feel... 

However, please be forewarned: (1) Even though this version of the book is translated into modern English, the sentences can still be rather long, and are not very concise at times (at least when compared to most modern English writing). So you may find yourself having to re-read some sentences, and/or contemplating the meaning of what you just read- which for me was worth the effort, but may not be for everyone... We are not talking brain-surgery here, but I think you get the idea. (2) This book was written a very long time ago, in a different age with different outlooks on the world- and I think there are strong indicators in certain chapters that the author assumes his readers will (for the most part) be people who are in some religious order of some sort from his time period. Consequently, some readers may find this book interesting, but not that practical for every day use in their lives. However, I also think that there is a large set of people, (especially many Catholics), who will find this book, in addition to being a fascinating read, to also (with its different approach) be very useful in their quest for deeper spirituality. 

Sample (from one of the more concise paragraphs): ...Do not hang back then, but labor in it until you experience the desire. For when you first begin to undertake it, all that you will find is a darkness, a sort of cloud of the unknowing; you can not tell what it is, except that you experience in your will a simple reaching out to God. This darkness and cloud is always between you and God, no matter what you do, and it prevents you from seeing Him clearly by the light of understanding in your reason and from experiencing Him in sweetness of love in your affection. So set yourself to rest in this darkness as long as you can, always crying out for Him whom you love. For if you are to experience Him at all, insofar as it is possible here [that is, in this existence], it must always be in this cloud and in this darkness...

There are many chapters, but they are very short. Most will find reading a chapter a day a very realistic goal. I hope you enjoy this highly regarded classic as much as I did! 

