This book is like going to a fast food restaurant, it is fast, cheap and tasty yet you know the nutritional value is not the best.  If you have found your way to this book you probably already have your mind made up that Bill O'Reilly is not your cup of tea.  I found this book after reading the authors other book on Rush, which was not half bad.  Basically what you get with this book is the authors attempt to classify O'Reilly inconsistencies with either the facts or his other musings.   I think a fair review of the book would find that it is not really a negative attack on Bill, other then a few funny shots at his ego. It simply takes statements he  has made over the years and then spells out the truth of the matter.

I am not a fan of Bill O'Reilly, thus my book choice, so reading books like this that spell out many of his errors are just a laugh a minute to read.  Other then the fact that you have to read many of his outrageous and somewhat bombastic comments, the book is easy to read and fast paced.  The authors list out their sources and from where the O'Reilly comment came from. I guess my only complaint with the book is that given many of the O'Reilly comments were simple sentences, a Bill O'Reilly supporter could always make the claim that the comment was taken out of context. To avoid that I would have liked the authors to add a bit more of the Bill's words before and after the comments. Yet this is a small complaint on my part and does not really take away from the enjoyment of the book. 

I felt the authors could have given us a bit more.  With the amount of air time Bill has, surly the authors could have come up with another  pages of errors. The one thing that I did hit my limit on was that toward the end of the book I kept hearing Bill in my head and after about 100 pages, it was all I could stomach. Overall the book was a nice time waster, not too heavy and fast and easy to read. Did it provide any deep thought or interesting conclusions about the effect Bill O'Reilly has on the current Republican Party or the public as a whole, no. It just laid out many of his more bone headed comments. Would this book change any minds, again I doubt it.  If you dislike O'Reilly or just disagree with a number of his positions then you will get a kick out of the book
