MAKING COLOR SING is a workshop in watercolor. Jeanne Dobie, AWS, is a watercolor master of international fame and recipient of many prestigious awards. From the contents of this book we can also vouch for her generosity for sharing her knowledge and secrets with us.

In an orderly fashion, step-by-step, she divulges the mystery of her seemingly effortless diaphanous watercolors. For beginners as well as for the experienced watercolorists, Making Color Sing provides a basis for crossing barriers and expanding beyond.

Dividing her chapters methodically, Jenne Dobie demonstrates with clear illustrations how to mix transparent colors and how to avoid muddy colors. For example, an entire chapter is devoted to muted mouse colors and another to octanic colors, or how to use brilliant watercolors.

Every painter is a little reticent to use green in their composition. Jeanne Dobie demonstrates multitude techniques to create an array of beautiful greens.

She even reveals how to create distance and atmosphere with warm and cool colors. Pushing color into a cooler shade causes it to recede, while warm colors seem to advance. She strives to show how to capture atmospheric changes and the changing light.

You will learn how to experiment with push pull actions, as well as with warm and cool colors that will look more than pretty.  Three dimensional forms will appear like magic depending on the light, and shadows.

Most artists are afraid to use dark colors. Jeanne Dobie's use of potent dark colors as opposed to the right measure of white and light colors make her watercolors jump out off the page. The secret is in the interaction of complements. There are some illustrated examples that will guide the neophyte to explore these possibilities.

In order to create colors that pulsate, you need to create a reaction with the color surrounding it. Jeanne Dobie gives us several combinations on how to make color sing.  Jeanne Dobie also gives you a list of "What went wrong." She also illustrates how to enlarge your repertoire of whites and half tones with a wonderful chart.

In one of the chapters she demonstrates the art of not mixing, or how to layer with glazes. This chapter is followed by the one on working in gradated glazes to obtain atmospheric glazes. Glazes can also be used to correct errors as evidenced in another chapter.

Another important feature of Dobie's art is design.  Shapes and forms are very important in her compositions. Her hard edges are blended and result in a diaphanous, transparent veil that all watercolorists would no doubt envy.  Working with glazes is another of Jeanne Dobie's assets and yet, she shares her knowledge with a great deal of generosity.

Jeanne Dobie leaves the best for the last chapters or how to design shapes in color. Light and dark patterns are explored and demonstrated in a simple and concise manner.   It is another matter to imitate these seemingly simple designs- one has to experiment of course.

Go out and buy your own copy of MAKING COLOR SING by Jeanne Dobie, AWS because you will surely not want to lend it to anyone, friend or foe!

Lily Azerad-Goldman, Artist and Reviewer for Bookpleasures




 


 


 




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

