Horgan's book, "The End of Science", is sure to arouse curiosity and suspicion from any science enthusiast.  Whether Horgan is shooting the breeze with Stepehen Weinberg or silently laughing at the quirkiness of Ed Witten, the reader will be thankful for the insightful tour through the world of physics.  But Horgan isn't satisfied with just a tour.  He has armed himself with a far-reaching and penetrating question: has science come to an end?  As silly as the question may at first appear, the attentive reader will find himself intrigued by just how timely the question really is.  

Horgan covers every field of science and communes with the greats in each discipline.  While his subtle mockery of the great men of science is often amusing, one often wonders about Horgan's intentions.  Nevertheless, his "stick-it-to-em" attitude is fruitful in that it quickly brings each scientist to the edge of his/her expertise, and in some cases even brings them to the brink of anger and annoyance.  

Horgan's main point throughout is that science, as a means to discovering "the Truth About Everything" has hit a dead end.  It is not because of some inherent limitation embedded in the scientific method but because humans have maxed out their ability to make testable predictions.  While I think that Horgan is sincere in his belief that science has reached the end, I don't find his reasoning compelling.  Time will tell what the limits of science will be, and despite what many have said about the limitations of science over the past 200 years, science has broken through every concievable barrier put up by the many Horgans of history.  

This is not to deny that fields like physics are having serious difficulties.  It is true that scientists have, as of yet, failed to find an easy way to test theories like superstring theory but as knowledge progresses more avenues always seems to open up (for instance, recent progress in string theory suggests that some of the strings and their curled dimensions may have been larger than originally thought.  There may be a way to test for these "hidden" dimensions after all).  But I think what it really comes down to for people like Horgan is that they want "the Truth About Everything", the holy grail of physics and philosophy, the key to all knowledge.  Horgan wants certain, perfect, unassailiable knowledge of everything and science cannot deliver.  This shouldn't  be a surprise to anyone who has worked in science long enough.  After all, imagine that string theory develops into a fully realized, testable theory and yeilds preictions that match the experimental results with 99.99999% accuracy.  Questions will still remain: "what are strings; why strings and not something else; how can it be that strings can be truly fundamental if they have 1-dimensional spatial extent (i.e. what happens when you cut a string?  How can it be that cutting a string is simply impossible?)".  Seeing as science is a human endeavor, it will forever be limited by the categories and conditions of the human mind however ingenious the human mind may be.  But it is still the case that science represents our best means of attaining knowledge about the observable universe.  But it will never be more than that and Horgan's expectation that it offer us the "Truth About Everything" is simply unreasonable.          
