As an active Business Consultant I'm often appalled at the lack of disregard for the importance of strategy. It's a matter of life and death (at least for your company).

"Vision without action is a daydream. Action without vision is a nightmare." - Japanese proverb

Why read a book on strategy? Quite simply, to be successful. Technology and globalization culminated in ferocious competition for virtually all industries. To be competitive in today's world, you must understand that all value is derived from the customer. Therefore, you will do well to delve deep into how to create value for the customer.

Competition is becoming increasingly global. Therefore, it is in your best interest to understand how national, international, and governmental issues affect your industry and hence, your company.

Third in Porter's landmark trilogy, Competitive Advantage of Nations, somewhat different from his first two books, focuses less on industries and companies themselves, and more on how a firm actually gains an advantage over its rivals. 
 
Competitive Advantage of Nations consists of four parts:

Part I - Foundations, presents the theoretical frameworks which form the basis for the rest of the book. In Chapters 2, 3 and 4 Porter revisits most of his previous work, such as the five competitive forces, generic strategies, the value chain, and the advantages "diamond". 

Part II - Industries, frameworks of Part I are applied to explain the histories of four industries (German printing press, American patient monitoring equipment, Italian ceramic tiles, and Japanese robotics). In addition, Porter applies the frameworks to the service sector. 

Part III - Nations, frameworks of Part I are applied to ten nations. Porter splits these ten nations up in early post-war winners, emerging nations in the 1970s and 1980s, and the traditional business countries (Britain and USA). 

Part IV - Implications, Porter discusses the impact of the frameworks of Part I on company's strategies and government policies. In the final chapter Porter tries to answer the question, "What of the future?" According to Porter "the central economic concern of every nation should be the capacity of its economy to upgrade so that firms achieve more sophisticated competitive advantages and higher productivity. Only in this way can there be a rising standard of living and economic prosperity."


In summary, Competitive Advantage is a must read for any Aspiring Entrepreneur. To lead your company into the future you must create and capture value. Reading this book will help you better understand how firms within industries gain a competitive advantage. Don't be blindsided by the comfort of the moment, prepare for the future now.

-------------

Michael Davis, President - Brencom Strategic Business Consultin
