This book was hailed in Jewish circles as the first Star Trek novel with a Jewish character.  That's not exactly true, as I have demonstrated in my Trekmania list of "Star Trek novels with (maybe) Jewish characters."  But it is the first novel with a MAJOR character who is Jewish.  True, Captain David Rabin never actually SAYS he's Jewish, but on page 1 he is described as a man "of Earth Israeli descent" who grew up in the Negev, and he has Hebrew inscriptions on his walls.  So nu --what else can he be?  There are other broad hints, too, such as the use of "Shalom" as a greeting, and a discussion about "Never again" to explain why Israelis are not pacifists. 

Overall, I liked the book, but there were a few things that really annoyed me, which is why I docked it a star.  First of all was Rabin's constant wisecracking.  Why, oh why, does every Jewish character have to be a comedian?  For Jews to have "a good sense of humor" is as stereotyped as blacks having "a sense of rhythm."  (This problem is not limited to this book.  Whenever I mention my own research into Jewish themes in Star Trek, people invariably laugh.  Would they laugh if I were researching African or Asian characters in Trekdom?) 

My second annoyance was the idea that Spock had learned how to to "deadpan" jokes from Rabin in his youth.  I have never seen Spock as a jokester.  True, there is humor in the scripts, but this is from the POV of the audience, not Spock himself.  We might laugh at Spock's literal interpretations of idioms and metaphors, but it is out of character for a Vulcan to be actually cracking jokes -- especially a young half-Vulcan who is trying so hard to fit into the Vulcan way.

Lastly, I found the constant references to "Lawrence of Arabia" rather strained.  I realize this was an attempt to include Arabs along with the Israelis, but surely there is a better way to do this that by citing old movies.  Would people in the 23rd century really pick up on obscure references such as "Aqaba by land"?  And how do Arab readers feel about using a movie to define their culture?  I would certainly be offended if a writer used "Fiddler on the Roof" to define Judaism. 

In spite of these nits, I did enjoy the story.  It provided some interesting background about why Spock chose to go into Starfleet, and some good conversations about war and peace.   The characters were well-developed and the writing was excellent, especially for a first Trek novel.  I look forward to reading more collaborative books by these two authors.

 
