I bought this book because I am planning a BBQ island for my backyard and intend to construct it myself. The book is centered around several BBQ islands that the authors (apparently) have seen built locally to them, and for each, there is a construction breakdown showing how it is constructed. The drawings are very good, however construction methods are only outlined in general terms (meaning, each step is outlined pretty broadly). I used to work various construction and remodel jobs, and feel capable of executing to these methods, However, it may be too much of a stretch for a beginning or intermediate do-it-yourselfer armed only with this book. I would say, if you don't already know what you want to build, or plan to have a pro do the actual construction, this book provides a great jumping-off point. I'd say it is well worth the purchase price. It also does a good job of describing many different types of construction, such as masonry, metal framing, etc. Also noteworthy is that the book stresses the importance of planning the project in terms of how it will be used, desired features, etc. ....As far as built-in grill projects in general,  For a long time, built-in barbeques were pretty much isloated to the fancy, upscale backyards of more expensive homes, but they are becoming more mainstream all of the time. I applaud the authors for writing this book, for this should help accelerate this trend toward more do-it-yourself activity with built-ins. Be forewarned: Built-in Grills and the associated components are horrendously expensive today, considering what they are and what little manufacturing complexity is needed to build them. (Just visit a Barbeque-specialty store for a look). Soon enough, the major home-improvement chain stores will partner with the manufacturers and begin carrying these types of grills, moving them in volume, and helping retail prices move downward. (and probably put the specialty stores out of business). All in all, I highly recommend this book
