Curling up with The Anarchist in the Library was a bit like sitting down with an old friend - literally, since I'll admit to knowing the author as a friend and colleague.  So, perhaps I am not the most objective reviewer in this series of remarks, but I find much to admire in Siva Vaidhyanathan's latest work.  In fact, Siva Vaidhyanathan has opened my mind to a thread in American culture that I had not given much attention to in my studies - the relevance of anarchy as a system of rapid, unmediated, decentralized form of communication.  In my loose lifting from the text, Vaidhyanathan defines anarchy as nonhierarchical, radically democratic, "organization through disorganization."  He posits the meaningful history of anarchy - from Diogenes, to the French Revolution, to Emma Goldman, to peer-to-peer networking - against the ongoing corporatization of information in the mass media and government.  

The importance Vaidhyanathan places on anarchic communication in contemporary culture casts another perspective onto the current debates on peer-to-peer networks, Internet blogs, the music industry, and American cultural policy.  Vaidhyanathan writes, "Digitization and networking make anarchy relevant in ways it has not been before.  Global electronic networks make widespread anarchistic activity possible.  What used to happen in a neighborhood barbershop or on a park bench now happens across a nation-state or beyond.  Rumors can bubble up into action."  Vaidhyanathan's desire to illuminate the importance of anarchy as a means of community involvement and springboard for social movements is a powerful and even "radical" idea.  And yet, his point is also to reinstate that anarchy is an aspect of daily life - not radical, but a mainstay of human interactions.  The challenge is when corporate and legislative restrictions threaten to shut down these lines of communication and stifle dissent.

I was surprised by how moving I found the book to be as a whole.  Told in the first person, and with the lucid prose of a former reporter, Anarchist in the Library is ultimately a passionate and insightful book about cultural freedom and censorship
