As suggested by its title, Benjamin Franklin: An American Life portrays the life of one of America's greatest Founding Fathers, Dr. Benjamin Franklin.  Walter Isaacson meticulously illustrates Franklin's academic, social, business, and personal affairs which played a role in shaping America.  Benjamin Franklin is still regarded to this day, more than 300 years after his death, as one of the most impressive scientists, writers, and diplomats known to presence the earth.  This biography depicts Franklin's flaws as well, making his story all the more believable.  
Born in Boston in 1706, Franklin was raised by his hard-working English family.  He was very academically inclined and read many books throughout his youth.  He had little formal schooling and was self-educated for the most part.  He became a published writer during his teenage years.
Benjamin Franklin apprenticed under his brother during his teenage years and initiated his lifelong career as a published writer.  After a series of events including travel and self-reflection/improvement, he opened his own publishing company at the age of 22 and eventually became postmaster of the 13 colonies.  Many of his maxims in Poor Richard's Almanac are still referred to today. 
Much of Franklin's upbringing formed him into an industrious and frugal person.  Not only was he a hard worker, but he also strived to do good for others, as he believed that was what God wanted.  In that effort, he created many organizations to benefit the common man and always kept themes of equality, opportunity, and patriotism near and dear to his heart.  He joined several men together to form the Junto, a businessmen's public service organization.  Franklin understood the importance of education and believed it should not be a privilege only for the elite.  He founded an academy that was the first nonsectarian college in American, which later became the University of Pennsylvania (Isaacson, 2003).  He also established a library, hospital, and police force in Pennsylvania.  A true believer in serving one's country and mankind, he did not patent his inventions, as he wanted them to be practical and beneficial. 
During his career as a publicist, he raised his illegitimate son, William, and, although flirtatious with many women, married Deborah Read with whom he had another son (who died at age 4) and a daughter, Sally.  Franklin was close to his children but had a major falling out with William later in life due to political conflict.  In his 30's, William was appointed by Britain to be governor of New Jersey and became a loyalist.  Franklin, who wanted independence for the colonies more than anything, never forgave him although he always remained close to William's illegitimate son, Temple, who Franklin helped raise.  
Franklin's political career took place mostly during his retirement.  He traveled extensively to England and France as a confederate diplomat.  Like the smoothing effects of oil on turbulent water, with which Benjamin Franklin experimented, he skillfully smoothed underlying turmoil.  Franklin played a large role, if not the largest, in negotiating independence for America and helped define its values that lie in the Constitution.  He also effectively recruited the help of France in the quest.  Isaacson mentions that Franklin is the only person who signed all four documents that established the government of America (the Declaration of Independence, the French/American treaty, the peace agreement with Britain, and the Constitution) (2003).  
Throughout his life, Dr. Franklin accumulated many friends.  His enemies, although strong, were few in number.  He only seemed to grow wiser as he aged and used it to our country's benefit.  
Franklin had many health problems during the last decade of his life.  His death at the age of 84 came only a few years after he signed the Constitution.  It was as if he held on to life until he accomplished his goals and our country was complete.  
Expecting to skim over much of Benjamin Franklin: An American Life, I instead found myself reading in grave detail every page and sometimes re-reading portions of it.  I wish this book could have been available in my high school American History course.  What this book lent to my understanding of the formation of the United States of America is incredible
