  As the Author of this book describes in a chapter the facts of blackness: Had I read that right?...He asks himself.

  And this is what I feel of this whole read. Have we read this right?  I am yet to read a comment or review that discusses the heat of controversy which this book involves.  I am yet to read something here, which covers the mind of this author. 
Highlights the spirit and intensity of this book.  Hello! Am I the only one puzzled by lines such as this: "In no way should I derive myself to the revival of an unjustly unrecognised Negro civilisation.  I will not make myself the man of any past." (226)
Is this the kind of statements which empower coloured social movements of today?

  In the intro of this book he poses the question "what does the man want?...what does the black man want?"  He asks this question to himself and his directed reader about his coloured friends.  If this question was about us then do we agree that this is or was the question of colour today?.. If so then how does the Author answer it in our case?  How the author chooses to investigate the case of what he says is the "colour prejudice" stem mainly from methods devised from the medical profession. That is to say he comes to his conclusions by psycho-analysis.  He also includes personal observation and experiences from the attitudes of the people in his home soil Martinique.  From this he presents to us archives from philosophical and literate giants of French culture.  He questions them.  
He questions them as I believe he would have us question them and even him on certain statements he makes.  He questions them, opens their claims and challenges it on their ground of understanding.  It is then understandable to see how he got a particular giant of literature to preface his forthcoming book "wretched of the earth" through his bold spirit of inquiry. If there are some tones of a manifesto in this book I believe it would be derived from lines such as these:  I am working... towards a new humanism... colour prejudice... mankind I believe in you... (p9) And I believe these are the goals the "coloured" and "wretched" of today should be commenting on and responding to. 

  Here are some of the question I would advise one who has not read this book:   

  1: Did we get what the black man wanted?  How?  (pg 9)

  2: Do we recognise what he means when he speaks of going      beyond himself for a universal cause? What is this universal human cause to be exact?  

  3:And most importantly who is this book directed at?  (pg9)

  If this book does not leave you with more questions than answers then either the times are `illin (never better, cool) or you are.  
