I saw John McWhorter on a PBS news show and was taken back by the way he explained the issues of Black Culture based on his book and that prompted me to buy the book. I think it helped that the host of the show (who is white) seemed befuddled by John's explanation of the impact of Black Culture. I would have responded the same ways as a white person who has had minimal exposure to Black Culture. White folks do not always get straight talk about the Black community and because of that can not understand the root causes of problems faced by Black folks in today's society. Seems that Black Leaders are always trying to find blame for Black Folks problems based on racism and changes in the economy, etc. That approach seems to cause more problems then it fixes and will never allow real integration of the minds and hearts.   

The book goes into great detail about Black culture but one thing I liked was John's honesty and sincerity that made me feel like John was talking to me to explain the real issues that affect Black folks in today's society. I read both of John's books, "Losing the Race" and "Winning the Race" and I felt like John was really trying to cut away the BS and show why there are problems in the Black community and they have nothing to with racism or the big bad white man wanting to keep the Black person down. Using facts like the percentage of Blacks in prison compared with the Black population or that how Blacks endured prior to 60s and migrated to the north but could not go 5-10 miles out side Indianapolis were the factories moved from the inner city. Many of the issues that John points out I always felt were the case but never heard anyone openly bring them to light.  I really could understand John's explanation on how the open ended Welfare that started in the 60s caused the Black community to decline in many areas. I saw the same thing growing up around Cortland, NY (30 miles south of Syracuse). These were white people but they had many of the same issues that welfare caused Black folks and I wanted no part of it. My Mother was working to bring up three children making under $2.00 an hour around 1970 with a 150.00 per month for all three children. She never thought of using welfare as way to get out of having to work all day and take care of her kids at night. She was able to buy us a new home and move use to a good neighborhood. My Mother's motivation and dedication has always inspired me to work hard and try and do the right things in life. On the other hand I had a father who basically abandoned us, and if it was not for the US Air Force forcing him to send child support we would have received very little from him. By the way, my Mother grew up poor on a farm and her father did the minimal to help the family stay a float but some how she never let that stop her from doing the right thing. 

I used my experiences to relate to what John was explaining in the book and it all made really good sense. I think we all have negative forces pulling on us and a person has to work really hard regardless of their race to rise above these forces and do the right thing to put them in position to have a good life. John makes many good points that many Black folks are underachievers because of cultural influences (peer pressure) and I felt the same issues when I found myself hanging around the wrong people who only wanted to party and have a good time at the expense of their friends. I had to leave those people behind if I was to accomplish anything positive in my life. It was not easy for me to break away from the party/drug culture I lived around. Based on John's book I felt that for a Black youngster to be successful they need to break away and make the decision to leave the grips of a negative culture to go out into the world to be successful. To be their own man or women, but how can they when they relied so much on that culture as their identity. 

The key for me was going into the Air Force and taking advantage of the educational programs and continuing in the Air Force Reserves. It all helped bring myself above what an average person was thought to be able to achieve in Cortland, NY. I had many Black friends in the Air Force that had the same opportunities to gain the same advantages the military had to offer and many took advantages of those opportunities. Just like me, many Black folks who entered into the Air Force just needed to get away from the negative influences that existed at home and find out what they could accomplish. 

This is a really good book, written by someone with a great deal of insight and experience. I would recommend the book to anyone who has never experienced the Black culture of the last 30 years to help them get a better idea what many Black folks face in today's society and to provide a better understanding of the issues. The book helped see things much differently for Black folks and helped me create more empathy towards their issues in today's society. 

 
Jim






