There is a reason that this is not assigned reading in British Literature classes. There is a reason that Crowley is not amongst the giants of the English language. He was certainly brilliant and his control of the English language was as perfect as one could imagine it to be. But something is lacking in this otherwise compelling story. Something isn't quite there. That something is hard to pinpoint. It seems to be a work incomplete. Or rather, it was completed but the completion followed the flawed and incorrect path. 

The first two books are works of artistic genius. They are books that truly demonstrate the ecstasy and insanity of drug-use (all of it is true to my more or less limited experience). The experience is a perfectly vicarious experience into a strange world of drug addiction and drug joy. But the journey does not end at the nostril. It also paints a picture of a radically different time. The places are all familiar, but an imprint of the 1920s is engraved at the foreground. 

The story is one of an independently wealthy man and his newfound wife embarking on a tumultuous journey catalyzed by the combined engines of heroin and cocaine. Lou and Peter (the dazed couple) dive into a colorful world of transcendental bliss and super-human emotion. They dive into this world until it consumes them from both the outside and the inside. 

The addiction ceases to be exciting and enjoyable, but rather becomes a force of habit and it is up to a brusque magician to break the horrid spell of addiction, but not of causal use. The message at the end of the day is to use drugs but not to abuse drugs. 

Certainly the book is an experience to read,until the third section, titled Purgatorio, where Crowley's ideas of the True Will become revealed. It is not that the ideas are impeding the artistic merit of the work, but rather that the final section of the book suffers from being far less interesting and exciting than the first two sections. It becomes somewhat impotent, bringing up canonical law of Thelema, rather than vivid and edifying imagery. 

All in all, the book is worth a read, but if you were to stop reading 50 pages from the finish then I would not say that you would have missed any moments of true genius or interest. 
