The avocation that thoughts produce energy in the body is the key to thought field therapy.  The more optimal your autonomic nervous system, the healthier, you are like to be.  A key indicator of ANS stability is heart rate variability.  HRV measures variations in the heart rate, measuring the intervals between heart beats.  Healthy hearts have greater variability in the HRV than unhealthy hearts.  The greater the variability in the heart the more stable and healthy the body and as HRV rates improve this is a clear sign of ANS changes indicative of healing.  Low HRV scores may leave one susceptible to death and increase the chance of future heart attack, angina, and congestive heart failure. Anxiety causes alterations in the automatic system control  of the heart.

An algorithm is a complete solution to a problem.   All tapping algorithms start the same way, first by bringing the thoughts to focus and awareness that are associated with the problem.  This will cause a perturbing in the thought field.  The observable evidence is that thoughts have a definite and profound affects on the individuals, whole self.  The first tap algorithm uses the 2nd and index finger on either hand to perform the tapping and tap on the spot at the beginning of the eyebrow, five times; five time under the eye, at the edge of the socket; tap several time, 4 inches under the armpit; tap several times on the two inches, left and right side of the collarbone connection junction; tap the little finger, and tap the index finger.  I was surprised, after trying the anxiety algorithm and notice an immediate increase in energy and anxiety dissipation.  I slept extremely well causing me to be late for the job, the algorithm seems to relieve me of anxiety. I found value in the algorithm.  However, my wife tried the pain algorithm and had one of the worst nights of sleep with increased amounts of pain.  One important part of the algorithm is to focus on the area of pain while performing the pain algorithm.   The nine step gamut series starts by tapping the gamut spot which lies below the knuckle of the ring finger a  inch and while tapping 1. Open the eyes 2. close the eyes 3. open the eyes and point down and to the left 4. point the eyes down and to the right 5. whirl the eyes around in a circle in on direction 6. reverse the whirl direction 7. hum a few bars of any tune 8. count aloud from one to five 9. hum the tune again.  The Psychological reversal (PR) starts by tapping the point of a "karate chop" contact point on the hand, five times and the mini PR sequence is 15 taps.  The collarbone breathing exercise has five positions: 1. breath normally 2. take in a full deep breath, hold it 3. left half of the breath out, hold it 4. let the remainder of the air out, hold it 5. take in a half breath, hold it.  Now, using two fingers touch the collarbone spot, continueous tap the gamut spot with the other hand, go through the five breathing steps switch hands and go to the second collarbone point and repeat the process. I like the anxiety algorithm: 1. five taps the eyebrow 2. five taps under the eye 3. five taps under the arm 4. five taps at the collarbone spot 5. five taps under the eye 6. five taps under the arm 7. five taps at the collarbone spot 8.  the gamut algorithm while rolling the eyes from the floor to the ceiling.   The Trama algorithm: 1. 5 taps EB 2. 5 taps CB 3. 9 gamut steps  4. 5 taps EB 5. 5 taps CB 6. Floor to ceiling.  The complex trama algorithm: 1. 5 taps EB 2. 5 taps under eye 3. 5 taps under arm 4. 5 taps CB 5. 9 gamut steps 6. 5 taps EB 7. 5 taps under arm 8. 5 taps CB 9. floor to ceiling
