Set somewhere in heartland (actually, "Midland") America around the turn of the 20th century, "The Magnificent Ambersons" is a sharp and ultimately melancholy look at change.  Founded on old money, the family's generations glide easily along in extravagance, until the cash runs out.  Their unwillingness to adapt to new times and new industry dooms their lives of comfort and inertia, as their mansions decay and their neighborhood becomes one of common housing and polluted air.  

The protagonist is George Amberson Minafer, the sole inhabitant of the third generation and an insufferable snob.  He gets his come-uppance in the end, but the Ambersons have fallen so far so quickly that hardly anyone notices or cares anymore.  He's chagrined to find after the fall of  the house of Amberson that his once-prominent family is not even mentioned  in the city history of great family names.  His mother is irrationally, almost beyond belief, defensive and protective of her little scion.  It's no wonder he was the terror of the town for so many years.  

Booth Tarkington gradually clues the reader in that something's going wrong with the Amberson empire.  He points out, mostly through Minafer's  agonized thoughts, that nothing is permanent.  The great fortunes and mansions that displace the Ambersons will themselves fade one day, and the customs and people one knows from infancy on will likewise shift.  Midland undergoes a jarring shift from the wealthy and their poorer but settled neighbors to a bustling, dirty city of what Minafer sees as money-grubbing ethnic immigrants and incessant change.  The old rich who didn't adapt  fall victim to what one modern political commentator has called "creative destruction."

As if to underscore the transitory nature of things, Tarkington kills off most of the Amberson family as if it were itself somehow defective and weak.  Minafer redeems himself somewhat at the end but only because of necessity.  The few Ambersons who are left find themselves in a nearly alien culture that took only several decades to establish itself.  Like Ozymandias, the Ambersons thought themselves and their way of life to be endless. Tarkington's rather bleak message seems to be that nothing is forever, no future is guaranteed, and that those who follow have no more claim on permanence than the mighty who have fallen before them.     
