The book has a wealth of information on a number of chronic disease processes and alternative medicinal treatments. The section on arthritic diseases contains much valuable information. For instance, Dr. Null explains the many benefits of chelation for capillaries and general wellness. Chondriatin Sulfate is helpful for both arthritis and osteoarthritic conditions.

The restorative foods; such as, fruits and veggies will help to ease these conditions and maintain health. The green lip mussel, pure spring water, rhus tox (musculoskeletal disorders), mind/body relaxation techniques, rolfing and the Alexander technique for cranial balancing are cited to relieve the debilitating aspects for a constellation of arthritic conditions.

A high fiber diet is another condition precedent for maintaining colon/gastrointestinal health-key to maintaining wellness to combat arthritis. I've found that the fruit/veggie and high
roughage diet is helpful for arthritic conditions together
with other supportive therapies. i.e. magnets, colonics,
acupuncture, chondriatin sulfate and related derivatives.

Sugar and excessive gluten must be eliminated to make the
diet component work properly. Daily exercise and professional
help from a physical therapist will be extremely helpful to
refine the treatment methodology and regimen. Eliminate high
fat foods, bad cholesterol, white sugar, heavy oil cooking
and too many processed food groups in order to facilitate
overall health. Too much acidity is another aggravant for
sufferers having arthritic/musculoskeletal conditions. Stress
reduction and relaxation will help cement a steady management
of the arthritic disease processes. 

In my own experience, successful arthritic condition management consists of a considerable program implemented consistently over a permanent time frame. You can't have 12 cups of coffee with sugar additives each day or a pound of macaroni a week and hope to combat arthritic conditions successfully. Eliminate smoking because the toxins in cigarettes are absorbed by the body-perhaps with permanent residual side-effects. It's important to keep
abreast of the rheumatology profile  i.e. SED Rate and blood
inflammation indicators  i.e. C-reactive protein. These
indicators are a pointer to more profound trends in the body
chemistry which require treatment or a special anti-inflammatory
protocol and/or dietary change.

This volume is not a cure-all. Nothing is a cure-all for middle-
aged arthritis. Successful symptomatology management and
a cessation of disease progression is the ultimate treatment
goal. Emcellular transplantation has been shown to have positive
aspects with some risks; however, the procedure is limited to
a few clinics outside the United States. Over time, the U.S.
will have experimental protocols on board. In the interim,
disease management of symptoms and progression is the ultimate
treatment goal for arthritic conditions. Some authors discuss
a gut permeability linkage to arthritis and derivative conditions.

The work provides helpful protocols for implementation by the
general public. Some of these protocols have been published
extensively in peer-reviewed journals. i.e. The Lancet

Dr.Null gives credit to some well-known protocols in the
citations toward the end of the book. His works contain
a variety of protocols. Some are proprietary to him. Others are
well known through peer-reviewed journals  i.e. The Lancet 
Another group of protocols are specific to popular disease
management in India, Asia and indigenous cultures.

The book would be a valuable asset for any personal medical
library. The September 2006 new edition is eagerly awaited
