So I'm at a fancy Manhattan party hosted by Columbia University.  It's at a swank bar and I'm surrounded by Columbia graduate film students who are mooching like it's nobody's business.  Bear with me, this actually has to do with the book, "Snow Treasure".  I'm just a humble children's librarian who happens to be married to one of these students so I'm biding my time and drinking my free drink when I am introduced to yet another filmmaker.  Usually when I tell such people what my job is they are inclined to nod politely and then scan the room frantically for someone more interesting.  Not this gal.  On hearing about my job she practically grabs me by my lapels (I say "practically" since I am not in the habit of wearing lapels) and asks excitedly, "Have you read Snow Treasure?!?".  I try to pry her fingers from my clothing while admitting that as well-read as I like to boast that I am, I actually don't know this book.  She then launches into an emphatic explanation of how much she enjoyed this story when she was a child and how she would like to film it herself someday.  And since she goes to school with my husband, it seems only polite that I should read this supposedly marvelous little work.  I do, enjoy the book thoroughly, and here we are today.  Whether you like it or hate it, it's hard not to admit that "Snow Treasure" is one of those books that stays with you for years and years at a time.
	
Peter is just your average Norwegian kid.  He enjoys sledding in the snow, the occasional snowball fight, and hanging out with his friends and neighbors.  Then the Nazis come.  It's 1940 and Norway has been invaded by a particularly nasty enemy.  This wouldn't be such a problem if Norway were a poor nation.  Unfortunately they have gold bullion in their banks worth roughly $9,000,000.  It would be great if the bank could get the unprocessed gold to a cargo ship waiting by the sea, but any form of transportation used would probably get searched by the invading army.  But what if the carriers were the most innocent available?  What if the children were put to use?  Before Peter and his friends know it they're running a dangerous mission right under the noses of the Nazis.  But will the Nazis ever figure out what exactly is going on?  And, almost more importantly, will the snow last?
	
Husband wants to know what I'm reading.  I tell him it's that old classic piece of historical fiction, "Snow Treasure".  Husband wants to know when it takes place.  I tell him 1940.  Husband asks when it was written.  I tell him 1942, which shocks both of us equally.  As World War II was going on, author Marie McSwigan must have heard this story/rumor, put on her writing glasses, and plugged out an exciting tale of children v. Nazis.  Of course, recent printings of the book are mighty careful to include this little caveat in the front: "For many years the story was believed true.  But over 60 years later, there is no proof that it ever really happened".  So how did Ms. McSwigan hear of it?  A quick perusal of the ever handy "Something About the Author" series (available in your local library) and we learn that McSwigan was a journalist back in the day.  A Pittsburgh journalist at that.  Perhaps (and this is entirely speculation at this point) she heard the rumor of the gold's rescue and made the obvious conclusion that true or not it would make a darned good book for children.  

It's odd reading the book secure in the knowledge that when it was published it was a toss up whether or not the Germans were going to win the war in the end.  Certainly there isn't any mention of the Jews or their fate.  There are, however, several references to concentration camps and the cruelty of the Nazis in general.  The book is a teensy bit dated here and there, of course.  Peter Lundstrom is twelve-years-old and is told by his father (leaving to fight in the war) to take care of the family since now he's the "man".  Then again, McSwigan belies this at the end when Peter's uncle points out that his mother is perfectly capable of taking care of herself.  Moreover, the girls in this book do everything the boys do and never show any weakness.  Even in the face of a nasty Nazi kicking down their snowmen.  It's not exactly Gloria Steinem territory, but it's still pretty good for the times.  The writing is also upbeat and cuts to the chase right at the beginning.  By page 14 you already know what the kids are going to do and it's fast-paced writing from there on in.  It might not stand up to intense scrutiny today but it's definitely one of the more interesting books for children processed in 1942.
	
In regards to the film student who wanted to make a movie out of "Snow Treasure" it'll break her heart, I'm sure, to learn that a film was already made of it in 1969.  Sigh.  In any case, with its slim size and its gripping plot this is one story that pops off of the page and has been in continual publication since the forties.  A good book even today
