You're probably a left-hander if you think that driving a stick shift (in an American car, at least) is an invitation to disaster; if you've ever jangled elbows with the person on your left at a dinner party; or if you have a story about a grade school teacher who was just sure she could make you change your sinister ways.  If so, then I have a book for you.  (The rest of you oppressors can stop reading.)

In A Left-Hand Turn Around the World, fellow lefty David Wolman chases down "the mystery and meaning of all things Southpaw."  I learned a good deal from reading this book, though some of it was useless (like chapters on how handwriting analysis and palmistry are crocks, which I knew already) and some way over my head (like the chapter on genetic shifts, which I tried desperately to understand but found confusing and counterintuitive).  But there's plenty of other fascinating stuff here to chew on, and Wolman is a fine and engaging writer, with the quirky humor and keen eye for irony that I would expect from an enlightened lefty.

One thing he debunks right away, for example, is the popular misconception that people who can write with either hand are ambidextrous.  This is not ambidexterity, which requires an equal facility with either hand for all handed tasks (eating, writing, drawing, throwing, sweeping, cutting, etc.).  True ambidexterity is actually extremely rare. (p. 15) In contrast, many people evince some kind of "mixed-handedness." 

What Wolman says about mixed-handedness, in fact, may turn out to be the greatest revelation of the book.  It may well be that we've been asking the wrong question about handedness all along, supposing a dichotomous lefty-righty split when in fact the real question is mixed-handedness versus strong-handedness.  (p 117)  People who demonstrate a consistent, across-the-board preference for one hand or the other are considered strong-handed, and may share certain traits and abilities, while mixed-handed people are wired differently and have other natural advantages and disadvantages.  

I've already recommended this book to a couple of cool Southpaw friends.  Other people probably won't understand our compulsion to read it, and the numerous "that's just like me!" moments we'll experience from its pages.  They are so accustomed to ruling their righteous world that they never have to stop to think about how the other ten percent live.  But hey, I'm not mad.  Some of my best friends are right-handed.  Just tell them to please, please, stop designing the cars I have to drive.

A longer version of this review was posted on February 6, 2006 at The Review Revolution (janariess.typepad.com)
