As one of the other more astute reviewers wrote before me, this book has all the makings of the dark Greek plays such as Oedipus. I had a difficult time reading those plays in literature, and I have a difficult time reading these books by Spencer-Fleming. She is a very good writer, in some ways such a good writer as to feel she is wasting her time on mysteries (except for those of us who enjoy our mysteries). I would hope she has time for other genres as well. 

It's amazing how different writers can make New England either beautiful and full of colors, or deeply dark, with days that are gray with snow and seem to be full of hidden secrets. Part of it is this is the oldest settled part of the U.S. so we see it as having more time for history and secrets. 

Like Pittsburgh, PA many parts of the New England area are striving to find ways to survive. Their past industries are gone. The paper mills, lumber has gone  up to Canada, acid rain has caused environmental problems, etc. So those who try to stay in their homes have to struggle for jobs that are few, and the usual greediness of course comes in conflict with environmentalists and that very need for good jobs for people to live off of.

Another problem in here is the not dealt with problem of a boy who grew up with a disability. Later it becomes obvious this is not his only disability, but if they had caught the first one, the other one would have been found most likely. Because it was hidden, it led to the death of many people. 

The conflict between the town's female minister and her attraction to the town's chief of police is usually commented on by older female readers, and not the male readers, so I was pleased to see a man express some of the same feelings I have towards this part of these mysteries. Here are two people trying to do what is right, and yet they are put in too close proximity to each other. Even if one was married to someone who was not the best of spouse, our society has made it too easy to quit our marriages.  The only answer, which the author has brought up is the need for the minister to change her place of job...

Karen Sadle
