I read this book with very great interest.  It's the most promising and sensible approach I've seen to addressing the allergy and digestive problems I've been having for many years, which my own doctors have by trying ineffectively to treat by drugging the symptoms into submission.  I intend to try the program.

However, I expect to have some trouble talking my doctors into supporting this.  Pescatore appears to have developed his "cure" based on a lot of clinical trial and error and some guesswork based on a rough theory that the problems are all rooted in leaky gut and candida yeast overgrowth.  That kind of clinical approach is very valuable, but it takes more than that to really convince the medical community.  Pescatore appears to have choosen to market his method directly to consumers via popular books and TV talk shows, rather than market it to the medical community via formal clinical studies or experimental research.  Much of his suggested treatment is going to be questioned by the mainstream medical community.  For instance, does it really make sense to eliminate all sugar from your diet when your body makes its own sugar from the foods you eat, so there will always still be lots of sugar in the bloodstream?  Still, I have seen some medical research from other sources that hints that there really is something to his approach.  For now, his approach may be the best available, though many of it's details are unproven.

I also find it slightly off-putting  that when I go to the store to get the macadamia nut oil that he heartly recommends, I find the oil is sold by him.  (Though it really is good and healthy and was probably hard to get before he started marketing it.)  When I go to the web site of the blood test company he recommends, there's his ringing endorsement.  Pescatore Inc is there wherever I go.

He's certainly not nearly as bad as other "show doctors" who build financial empires on dubious weightloss theories.  His book clearly distinguishes between established medical fact and his own approaches.  He's clearly aware of mainstream medical research and has been integrating it into his approach as far as possible.  There's no crystal waving here.  It's not quite science, but it's close, and it's may be the best we are going to get for a while.  And his suggested treatment is, at the very least, less likely to do harm than all the medications my doctors have been suggesting
