Esk is the eighth child of an eighth son.  An aging wizard (more precisely, his staff) finds Esk during her birth, and believing that she will be a he, transfers possession of his magic and staff to her at birth.  The problem is that on Discworld, it is accepted as fact that females cannot be wizards.  They take the feminine path of magic, becoming witches.  Esk is taken under the tutelage of Granny Weatherwax, a witch in a remote mountainous region, who works hard to mold Esk into (just) a witch.  Esk has her own opinions about that (as does her staff), however, and it seems a wizard she must become.  So off they go to Ankh-Morpork and the Unseen University.  At the University, the wizards insist that a little girl cannot become a wizard, and refuse to admit her.  Once again, Esk has her own opinions about that.  Esk has her own opinions about just about everything, as does Granny, and Pratchett makes this characteristic memorable and very endearing.

Granny and Esk are two female characters as distinct, strong, independent, and hilarious any I've read.  While Equal Rites does not have the outright, page-after-page hilarity that permeated the preceding book, The Light Fantastic, Granny and Esk make it equally enjoyable to read.  

My only disappointment with Equal Rites is a too quick ending.  We are left wanting to learn more about Esk and her future; various Discworld resources suggest we are not given the chance (yet, anyway).  Even so, this is a fantastic book, and earns my highest recommendation.  It could be read out of order in the Discworld series, being connected only in a loose way to the 1st two books.  But as it is only the 3rd of the series, and these books are relatively short (~200 pages each), I recommend reading The Color of Magic (book 1) and The Light Fantastic (book 2) prior to Equal Rites.  Equal Rites is important in the series in much better defining Discworld magic.  Granny and two other witches (but not Esk) continue the "Witches series" within the Discworld series of books with the excellent Wyrd Sisters
