I had the opportunity to read this book before publication and I recommend it highly. I am a 31 year old woman and feel all of the pressures Dr. Dickerson addresses in this book. Feminism has been great--women have come so far since the 60s and 70s--but unfortunately, it's brought along a lot of baggage. Sure, women CAN do anything, but nowadays the message is that women HAVE to do EVERYthing--AND do it all before you're 35. A fabulous career, gorgeous spouse and children, your own home, total financial independence, a great body, and friends straight from an episode of Sex and the City--if you don't have all these and more, something must be wrong with you.

This book is fantastic because it doesn't try to tell you that you shouldn't have these things, it teaches you how to achieve what YOU want on YOUR terms. It helps you define what your goals are, not what society expects you to have, and how to find yourself in all of these expectations. We've all been hit with self-doubt. For example, I wondered why, if my job was so "good for me and my career," did I hate it? And was this guy someone I really wanted or did I just feel pressured because it was "time to get married?" In one case I "broke the rules" (chucking the high-powered career) and in another case, I followed right along (getting married), but in both cases this is what was right for ME.

Life is full of choices and pressures. Breaking the Rules gives you a guide to working through those pressures to find what you really want, deep in your heart, and the confidence to make choices that are right for you. Dr. Dickerson's deceptively simple 4 steps give you an opportunity to step back from the situation, find your voice, and follow through with it.

I'm not the kind of person who reads self-help books. I hate being talked down to, insipid advice about things that the author clearly has no clue about, and being told by the author what I should or shouldn't do. Breaking the Rules is none of these. Dr. Dickerson's extensive experience shows through in her realistic, non-didactic take on what we women face these days. I highly recommend this book to any woman in her 20s or 30s who wonders if she's doing the right things for the right reasons. Breaking the Rules is a great gift for your daughter, your sister, your friend, or yourself
