Set at the beginning of the twentieth century, Ford Madox Ford's novel "The Good Soldier" is the story of two married couples Edward and Leonora Ashburnham and John and Florence Dowell. The couples meet while wandering in Europe, and after becoming acquaintances, they continue to meet every year in Nauheim in Germany. The Ashburnhams are leading a nomadic life thanks to Edward's scandalous behaviour with a number of women. Leonora, a beautiful but cold Irish-Catholic has assumed responsibility for their financial affairs after Edward squanders a fortune on a courtesan. Edward, "The Good Soldier" is a former British Army officer. He's noble, brave, and capable of fantastic acts of benevolence. When he enters a room, his good looks and confident bearing "snapped up the gaze of every woman." Everyone--except Leonora--admires Edward. The American couple, the Dowells are wandering around Europe thanks to Florence's delicate health. Florence's 'heart condition' forbids another transatlantic trip, and John is more or less Florence's nursemaid.

Many years after first meeting the Ashburnhams, narrator John Dowell recalls the key events in their lives. Dowell is the quintessential "unreliable narrator." He is simply unaware of his wife's true nature, and blissfully ignorant of the passionate events taking place under his nose. So when events come to a head, and he can no longer ignore the obvious, Dowell attempts to piece together the events that took place years before, and he asks: "who in this world knows anything of any other heart--or of his own?"

"The Good Soldier" is a brilliantly structured novel--a masterpiece in character study. Dowell's function is mainly to record the events that he failed to interpret correctly at the time of occurrence. He isn't a main player here--rather, he's a historian who elects to ignore what he didn't wish to see. Yet, by the time the novel ends, Dowell possesses great insight and understanding of all the other characters--Leonora, who effectively emasculates her erring husband, Edward whose weakness and sentimentality ruin him, Florence, whose self-righteousness and ability to deceive reaches astronomically hideous proportions, and Nancy, the ward of the Ashburnhams, whose desire to punish Edward matches Leonora's. Above all, Dowell effectively translates the notion that a great tragedy has taken place. Leonora and Edward are trapped by their marriage and by their natures. Leonora's response to Edward's irresponsibility is the only choice she can make, and consequently, the Ashburnhams' incompatibility is endured in insufferable silence. Many literary critics consider "The Good Soldier" to be one of the greatest novels of the twentieth century--I think it's one of the most powerful and complex novels about adultery and betrayal that I have ever read--displacedhuman
