For every book about mammal fossils, it seems there are 10 or 20 about dinosaurs; and popular books about sharks outnumber books about flounders by about 100 to one.
"A thundering brute gets our attention," says naturalist David Wallace, but "fights over mammal fossils have probably played a greater part in the growth of evolutionary ideas than any other paleontological phenomenon."
Fights about mammalian evolution cut to the quick in ways that uncertainties about the evolution of, say, oysters do not.
And the duelists in the mammal wars were a colorful, feisty bunch. Natural history was red in tooth, claw and inkwell when the likes of Othniel Marsh and Edward Cope competed for fossils.
The stories about Marsh and Cope, about Alfred Wegener and  continental drift, about punctuated equilibrium and the old guard have all been told before, though seldom with as much style. 
The appeal of Wallace's "Beasts of Eden" is that it brings the controversies almost down to the minute. Mammalian evolution is "still a mystery story," but many of the "gaping holes" have been plugged in the last decade as bone hunters invaded virgin territory.
When Charles Darwin published "Origin of Species" in 1859, the paleontological record was almost all gaps, though the theory of "descent with modification" was supported by a wide array of other evidence, such as the distribution of living plants and animals.
But there were few bones. It is a testimony to the analytical power of comparative anatomy that the 19th century bone men made so few mistakes. There were, still are difficult cases; but even after a flood of new fossils was dug up, most of the affinities that were first inferred are still compatible with all the latest evidence.
Wallace takes the whole world for his study, but his launching point is a fresco, "The Age of Mammals," painted at the Yale Peabody Museum in the 1960s by Rudolph Zallinger. 
Zallinger's bigger and earlier "Age of Reptiles" in the same museum is better known, but most of us have seen reproductions of Zallinger's mammal painting, even if we don't know his name.
Both frescoes re-create the American West, whence the best and most Peabody fossils came. 
Zallinger's scientific advisers were among the top paleontologists of the time, but the painter apparently placed his specimens in landscapes to tell a story, not just present unconnected portraits. At least, Wallace is able to analyze the iconography of Zallinger the way a Berenson would a tercento Italian fresco.
But Zallinger left no written statement, and some of Wallace's deductions seem fanciful.
However that may be, "Beasts of Eden" is, with one exception, a reliable guide to the shifting interpretations of the fossil record, a continuation of a story that many of us heard first long ago when the evidence was less detailed. The book also presents a charming personal account of Wallace's encounters with living animals over the decades.
The exception comes in the chapter that should have been the most valuable in the book.
Anti-evolutionists never mention plants, because plant evolution neither threatens nor interests them. Real naturalists do take account of plants, although popular books about fossil plants are rare.
While "Beasts of Eden" is mostly about mammals, Wallace does include a chapter on the plant evidence.
This contains a shocking misconception for a book published by the press of one of our great universities when Wallace tries to explain the significance of the evolution of grasses in a cooling, drying world for the evolution of mammals.
Grasses use carbon by what is called the C4 pathway, as opposed to earlier-evolved plants which use the far less efficient C3 pathway.
But these monikers are not, as Wallace supposes, isotope numbers -- those atomic numbers would fit hydrogen or helium -- but simply arbitrary labels; and the way the pathways are used in paleontology has nothing to do with the differences in the isotopes of carbon, such as the famous carbon-14.
The superefficiency in carbon oxidation of the C4 path accounts for the superiority of slender grasses over mighty oaks, in many environments; and the way grasses store starch has a big part in how the mammals reading this review get by. So C4 is really important.
That warning aside, "Beasts" is a fine survey.

