Writing a critique of a critic's work seems somewhat redundant, but world-renowned film critic Roger Ebert's latest compendium of his favorite films is worth discussion. In fact, this volume is more interesting for his selections than his first, which contained essays on the more predictable classics, such as "Citizen Kane", "2001: A Space Odyssey", "La Dolce Vita" and "Metropolis". One can find any number of cinema books that praise those movies, but what I like about Ebert's approach with his second hundred films is that it is at once pompous and everyman in his perspective on how these films - most classics of some genre, some idiosyncratic - have impacted him. The usual suspects still persist here - "King Kong", "West Side Story", "Rules of the Game", etc. He constantly acknowledges this to be a personal list of favorites, an unnecessary admission given he includes some oddball choices, such as Cameron Crowe's "Say Anything" and John Hughes' "Planes, Trains and Automobiles". I like both movies, but putting them in the top 200 certainly attests to Ebert's subjectivity. 

What offsets the inclusion of such outliers is his genuine enthusiasm for movies overall. He is truly the film projectionist nerd you remember from junior high, who can actually write ebullient, thoughtful analyses and convince you that you are indeed lacking for the experience of viewing his must-see film selections. I particularly like his essays on some of the more unusual choices, such as Bob Clark's "A Christmas Story", a minor family comedy save for the fact that it has such an empathetic view of its young protagonist that it is hard to resist regardless of how unctuous Jean Shepherd's voiceover gets. Or F.W. Murnau's "Sunrise", which really took silent pictures to a new emotional level just as they were made irrelevant by the introduction of sound. Or even John Ford's "The Searchers", which took the Western form into deeper psychological territory without sacrificing the genre's adventuresome appeal. Without apology, he also includes such arguable classics as "Goldfinger", "Yankee Doodle Dandy" and "My Dinner With Andre". For movie lovers who lap up the details only an aficionado like Ebert can provide, this seems like a must-have
