     I am not a well read reader or some high i.q. person. I have had to work at raising my literary level and it does not always come easy. I, like so many others I am willing to bet, were first drawn to Moore by his subtitle: Soul Mates. The Cover and the title look good on my book shelf and the concept applies but,I was not even closely impressed with Moore's Literary capabilities and the depth of his own soul, as in, Care of the soul.
      This book validated everything I already knew but until reading this volume was unable to vocalize. Moore reminds us and enlightens us to what so many of us ......I say us,Americans have already known for so long.
     We have been and are being sold out. Maybe we sold ourselves out. Industrialization. Disposable housing, disposable furniture, disposable cars. We are loosing our craftsmanship in this nation our soul. I would suggest for anyone interested in this work to visit a couple of flea markets or an antique malls just as a warm up to understand how enlightened and very well versed Moore is in this area. 
         I have absorbed this book 3 times to date and every time in his gifted way he feeds my soul  conjuring up remebrances of my Great Grandparents and how even cooking was spiritual and a creation of a meal. No Microwaves, No Frozen dinners. I highly recommend this body of work. Especially for anybody interested in how to live more soulfully and stop buying into to the fabricated thunderdome we are living in.  I currently have a volume of The Dark Night of The Soul what I believe to be his latest work. I have not completed that piece to date.
        If I had to recomend a top 5 list.....Care of the soul would be a life changer or if not a changer at least an eye opener to what I want to change.(yes it would be in my top five)
Laugh if you want guys:Moore really does it for me.:)
        Wake Up America.....Moore has his place in the overhaul
Senate our country so desperately needs to put our Nation back to where it belongs. I give him my vote for competence and skill in communicating that need to others.
      
