I live in a city (Vancouver, BC, Canada) full of eccentric 
personalities (Hutchison et al...) attempting to recreate the
many experiments and efforts of mostly World War II era 
German scientists in finding and using Vacuum Energy for 
propulsion, weapons systems and more esoteric machinations.
 
This book outlines early 20th century discoveries and the 
more modern attempts to build upon those esoteric technologies
and gives the reader an overview of current black-budget,
cloak & dagger efforts of American, English, Russian
and even the Chinese in the hunt for zero-point energy.

Unfortunately due to time and money pressures
from his employers, (Janes Defence Weekly) the author
is unable to fully investigate the thousands of leads and
nuggets that require forensic-quality investigation and analysis
in his hunt for ZERO Point Energy.  It's an interesting read
but like certain ethnic foods, the book quickly fills your mind 
with anecdotes from the Black Budget World and casual
historical references, but for the technically astute reader
it leaves you wanting more...right after you finish reading it!
More Information, More Pictures, More Sources, More Dirt!  

As a member of the media industry myself, this is a subject
I would love to able to dig into more deeply with the assistance
of the author. He could write the main story and I'll help dig
for the hidden bones!  In short, this could have (and should 
have) been a 700 page combination of reference book and modern 
treasure hunting story.  

I am eagerly waiting for a follow-up book that is
more in depth to the extent where it is a combination
of an encyclopedia, doctoral thesis and 
how-to-build-our-own-devices book!

For those interested in Zero Point Energy, see related 
subjects in the Black Budget World such as Vacuum Energy, 
Sonoluminescence, Takomak Reactor, TR3B Astra, TR3a Black Manta, 
"The Sport Model", Visual Stealth, Audio Stealth,
Stealth Blimp, X-Ray Laser, Rail Guns, Montauk Project,
Thomas Townsend Brown, Hutchison Effect, Searle Effect,
and if you're more practical and actually want to build 
an anti-gravity-like flying craft yourself try
doing a search engine query for Ionic Lifters
(do not enclose in quotes), there are several devices
you can build or fly for a few tens to a hundred dollars
that use Coronal Discharge to fly
