"The Impressionist" is an interesting book. For me, it was so engrossing, that I realized its faults only when I almost finished reading. 

The novel, starting at the beginning of the twentieth century, tells the life story of Pran, the illegitimate son of Indian woman and English engineer whose brief encounter during the flood when the woman was traveling to get married resulted in his appearance. Only the servant knew the secret and she divulged it just before the death of Pran's adopted father (till then unaware that Pran was not his son). Pran, kicked out of the house and disowned, has to manage by himself and thus starts the series of his adventures. He changes identity as a chameleon, moving through India, from Fatehpur palace of the Muslim prince, Bombay, then to England and eventually to Africa, learns a lot and changes all the time thanks to his wonderful (or not so wonderful, as it later comes out) ability to adapt. This ability improves as Pran goes on, initially having some slips, when he tries to pass for a British boy, but later, because of constant concentration, a lot of learning, and help of others, he becomes a perfect, standard Englishman. In this respect, the motif of constantly changing person, the novel reminds me very obviously of Woody Allen's comedy "Zelig".

The novel is funny, there are many comic situations and the characteristics of each setting in which Pran finds himself are very thorough. Often, the background information was for me more interesting than the plot! The conclusion is supposed to be deep and philosophical (Is it better to be yourself, or be like others? What is a success in life? To name a few questions coming to mind after reading this novel), and it is in a way, but it is quite obvious and the final events leading to it, starting with the journey to Africa, were too lengthy and if there was any deeper meaning, other than repetition and sinking of the conclusion, it was lost on me - I think it would be better if the story ended with the night in Paris. The suspense would not be lost like it is now.

Nevertheless, "The Impressionist" reads well, it is a great read for all people who are interested in India, and brings up a problem of mixed origins (the author himself being half British, half Indian) and searching for one's identity. It definitely prompted me to look for other books by Hari Kunzru
