-- and Lewis's life threatened in other parts of the country. What better recommendation can there be for a work of fiction? 

This paints a vicious picture of a man with no skills (beyond a flair for showmanship), no scruples, and no taste for "honest work." In the buckle of the Bible Belt, he goes to a Baptist college, and there finds his true place in life: preacher. It gives the perfect shield of respectability to his unrespectable womanizing and drinking habit, while arming him with a sword of faith against which no mere fact could defend. Somehow, his indiscretions always catch up to him. Somehow, he always manages a crowd-pleasing display of repentance and a revival-tent plea for forgivenness, which the faithful grant at the tops of their lungs.

Lewis acknowledges that most people in the religion business are honest enough and sincere enough, but also notes that Elmer is hardly unique. As with his other books, Lewis is frightening in the precision with which he draws this truly rapacious character and his depradations on society in the name of morality and faith. It's frightening because of his prescience in describing modern witch-hunts and fundamentalist Christian attack squads, just as much as as for the disdain with which this first of televangelists fleeces his flock. 

Gantry's rapacious nature comes through most clearly in his commodity use of women, and especially behindthe closed doors of his married life. Cleo is devoted, wholly loyal, loving, naive, and less than the dirt beneath his feet. I came to dread the passages in which she appears - not for Cleo herself, but for Gantry's treatment of her. Their wedding night is a travesty, in which her gentle and trusting nature encounters his brutality at its animal worst. It turns my stomach to imagine how her children must have been gotten on her. The story needs that poor woman, however, to show just what Gantry would have do to everyone else if his self-serving social restraint were ever to fail.

No wonder Lewis was threatened with hanging. He hit a nerve. Like today, the people he exposed could only retaliate by trying to shout him down with sin and satan, and by physical violence.

//wiredweir
