Mr. Church serves more as editor of source materials in the time of our nation's founding; the bulk of this book is dedicated to presenting the founding fathers' and framers' opinions regarding the eventually established American ideal regarding religious freedom, with very little context added by Mr. Church.  His short analyses though are spot-on.

Mr. Church's book presents, in their own words, essays and letters from:  Patrick Henry (an enemy of religious freedom and some of our founding ideals), Sam Adams, George Mason, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, George Washington, and others.  It also includes the Treaty of Tripoli initiated by Washington's administration but ratified by Adams after being unanimously ratified by the 5th Congress which expressly defines the U.S. as "not being in any sense founded on the Christian religion".  The preponderance of evidence collected in this book strongly favors the fact that our framers (not neccesarily our founders like Henry), were enlightened gentleman suspicious of organized religion, but respectful of humanaity's need for faith, and that a relationship between religion and government led to corruption of religion and the derprivation of freedom to citizens and thus the need to separate the two institutions as much as possible.  

Being an avid student on this topic, I can state unequivocably that Mr. Church's assessment is accurate relative to the framers' historic desire to secularize government.  Mr. Church even presents Madison's post-Presidential memorandum on his admitted hypocrisy regarding his re-establishing national days of prayer during the build-up to the War of 1812 and the fear that elicited.  

The book is light in available source material regarding the majority of our leading framer's express desire to seperate church and state in hopes that religion would evolve to a faith in line with scientific fact that believed in a God of universal grace rather than the God described by fundamentalist Christians (then called Trinitarians) and that disestablishing religion was considered necessary in order that Citizens had the "freedom of conscience" to evolve to a more unitarian, if not deistic, faith already shared by our enlightened founders.  It is surprising Mr. Church doesn't explore this more fully given that he is a long-time Unitarian Minister with a Ph.D. in Early Church history and editor of "Thomas Jefferson's Bible", suggesting he's completely up to the task.

This is an excellent book to own and I highly recommend it because of its wealth of source data, all in a tiny book, 157 pages in a small footprint.  It however is assuredly NOT the definitive book on the relationship between church and state due to its limited scope and incompleteness of source material (.e.g, it's missing Madison vetoing faith-based charities as President along with the failed efforts to extend constitutional power to the gov't through a particular sect's version of God v. gov't deriving power directly from "We the People"), however since I haven't found that perfect book on this subject, one can't be too critical of Mr. Church.

For those of you that have been duped into believing the Dobson/Moore/Robertson propaganda that our government was divinely established to Christianize the world based on fundamentlist beliefs, I would recommend this book as well.  The framers quoted here belong to all of us, possessing their words, with very little editorializing by Mr. Church makes this book a very un-controversial book that will hopefully enlighten you and motivate you to further research the veracity of today's religious right propagandists v. what legitimate scholars and historians publish.  

While reading this book I suggest thinking about the electability of some of America's greatest generation of statesmen:  the words of Madison, Jefferson, Adams, and Washington would make them certainly UNELECTABLE in today's world  where politicans are forced to kneel down to the dogma of belief in a theistic, vengeful God as defined by a primitive sect of Christians to even have a chance of getting past the primaries.  While a deistic Jefferson and Madison or unitarian Adams could be elected then and were able to establish our precious American ideals, these men wouldn't stand a chance today, our loss in my humble opinion
