I am a fan of the late Edward Said's work as a cultural critic and I admire his politics and morals so it was interesting to read his brief autobiography.  As a brilliant world-traveler of considerable literary and musical talent who took a brave stand on a number of highly controversial issues, Said is a kind of romantic figure in a way, and the book is beautifully written.  It has a feeling of bittersweetness since it is written after Said was diagnosed with terminal cancer.  

Despite the sadness, Said manages to find much meaning, light and beauty in his life and I was particularly touched by the love and forgiveness he has for his parents.  His parents are truly fascinating and they possess a larger than life presence in his book that makes you feel you know them personally.  Although they are deeply flawed, like everyone is, Said has a certain emotional maturity with which he is able to acknowledge his deep love for them and make that love real for the reader.  

He also brings forth the scenery of his youth, from Palestine to Cairo to Lebanon to America, with vivid detail, so that you learn a lot about those places from WWII to the early fifties.  He's a funny iconoclast who brilliantly and subversively finds a way to always be in some kind of trouble, which I identified with.  I also liked that he instinctively rebelled against the arbitrary rules of a dying colonial order, and then later, against the arbitrary rules of New England private school, and then a stuffy, aristocratic, anti-Semitic, elitist '50s Princeton.  A product of stuffy private schools myself, I could identify with some of his experiences.

Unfortunately I guess my only objections were, although I highly recommend the book to readers and really liked it, were that he stopped so early in his life, when it would have been fascinating to learn more.  I guess that's actually an endorcement since it shows how much I loved his writing.  The only other critique I'd make is that he is reading his current perspective back on his experiences; i.e., being disgusted with the British teachers he had in Cairo as a kind of subversive rebellion of the sub-Alterns.  I'm sure there was that there, since he did-memorably-feel "out of place", but some of it is just adolescents naturally rebel against the self-importance of authority figures, whether there is an ethnic/political dimension or not.

I did like the way he covered his identity as a Palestinian, though. He managed to be completely opposed to anti-Semitism and have Jewish friends but stand up boldly and I think with amazing courage against an extremely powerful and well-organized Zionist lobby, so organized and alert that they find the time and energy to obsess over a good man and true humanist like Said, trying (and failing) to "expose" him as a fraud.  I admire him greatly and really appreciate that he understands and sympathizes with the historical plight of Jews, but doesn't think that makes what happened to him ok.  Basically, his place of birth was stolen and he was forced out of it, and I have to agree with him, there is no difference between that and the equally abhorrent forced resettlement in South Africa of "natives".

Although I'm a Jewish girl I was never raised with any idea that I was supposed to have natural Zionist inclinations of any kind, and therefore it was only through learning the Palestinian cause that I ever had any inkling of what the moral implications were there.  When I did find out what the issue was about and researched what people around me thought, I found out things I didn't want to know about certain friends and family's positions on the topic, but in the case of the family members closest to me, they agreed with me-probably why I was open to the Palestinean argument in the first place.  My mother for instance was always anti-Zionist.

And honestly, it does terrify me that I probably wouldn't have ever heard about their displacement and oppression if I hadn't gotten involved with far leftist causes.  Because no one in this country hears about it and just gets the stereotypical "insane terrorists" image many would do well to read this story of a Christian Arab who lost his home and family property and because he said anything about it was attacked.  Not that it would have been any more ok if he was Muslim, obviously, but it goes to show that it's a far more complex situation than the press ever shows us.  Can you imagine, the Israeli government bulldozed a young woman trying to prevent forced displacement of a family, and we didn't hear about it? 

 We're definitely going to miss Said in the intellectual world as a forthright moral voice who was unafraid to speak up for what was right.  I hope more people come forward to take his place, because we need people who are not anti-Semitic, but true human rights advocates, to plead the Palestinean cause to the world
