I rarely take the opportunity to provide feedback, whether positive or negative, for items that I have purchased.  Contrary to my nature, I enthusiastically offer my critique of Melvin Schuetz' book "A Chesley Bonestell Space Art Chronology".  I have fond childhood "space" memories from the nostalgic, captivating decade of the 1950s.  As a child, I gathered and treasured a modest number of space-related items.  As an adult, my continued interest in space travel and exploration provides countless hours of enjoyment.  Unlike when I was a child, I now have the necessary resources to seek, to find and to acquire any number of space-related collectables.  Most alluring to me are "space" books and periodicals published in the 40s, 50s and 60s.  Without question, the best tools that I have discovered and that I use in my quest for such books are e-bay and "A Chesley Bonestell Space Art Chronology".  If I were limited to only one adjective to describe Melvin's book, it would be "powerful".  As I pour through the various Appendixes, e.g., "Major Books Containing Bonestell Space Art" and Indexes, e.g., "Index of Authors and Editors", "Index of Books" and "Index of Periodicals", I gain an ever-increasing knowledge of and appreciation for Bonestell's work.  Over time, I have gravitated toward particular aspects of Bonestell's space-art.  Specifically, I prefer Bonestell's artistic renderings of space ships like those that graced the covers of Colliers magazines circa 1952-1954 than I do his astronomical renditions of alien planetary systems and galaxies.  But that's the "powerful" nature of Melvin's book - it contains everything (I dare say - without exception).  The prolific work of Chesley Bonestell is mind-boggling to me.  Also mind-boggling is Melvin Schuetz' complete accounting of Bonestell's work.  And, Melvin does it in such a way as to educate and entertain the reader.  "A Chesley Bonestell Space Art Chronology" is a wonderful book, a must for anyone interested in Chesley Bonestell
