"Now What Do I Do?" is an easy to read guide for those looking for a fresh start.  The book's primary audience is middle-aged women who have decided to reenter the workforce or to take a new direction in their careers.  It walks the reader through many hands-on exercises, all the options for work (working for someone, working for yourself, or volunteering), and is sensitive about the subject of how to manage ageism (age discrimination).  

While I am not part of the book's intended audience, I, as a young woman, found the book very useful.  It is rich in advice, resources, and thorough exercises that would help anyone uncover her skills, interests, and passions.  The handful of comments about age were the only few points in the book that I did not find immediately relevant.

Several of the exercises (e.g., writing a future autobiography) and ideas (e.g., importance of networking, thinking positively, creating a support group for change) were not new in that I've come across them in other books, but this is advantageous because Cannon compiles a comprehensive set of exercises in one easy to access reference.  

The bottom-line of Cannon's book is that we have to do our homework in preparing for a life transition.  She hits this point so hard with all her assignments that at times, the book feels a little overwhelming and preachy.  It would have been nice if she balanced out some assignments and advice with more stories or alternative approaches.  She shares some very inspiring anecdotes about herself, famous people, and her clients, which left me thirsty for more.  

I also think the book would flow better had she brought some of her finishing points to the beginning of the book because I found myself "getting sidetracked" already during the initial chapters.  However, all the information is there to help one get started, and she who takes full advantage of Cannon's book no doubt will enjoy much success in her new career.  

The career coach who has "Now What Do I Do?" on his/her shelf also has a great library of materials to help clients find their direction.  Members of women's professional organizations (e.g., Society of Women Engineers) can benefit in particular because they can tap into their membership pool to buddy up with someone or create the much-needed "success team" as they embark in a new direction or into the world of work for the first time in a while
