Calling Thomas Wolfe a literary genius is like calling your wife a dynamite telephone caller; it may be true, but it doesn't tell you much.

After all, when we think of literary genius, we tend to think of a gift of words exercised in the service of something big, like truth or beauty or human potential, don't we?  We may disagree about whether some genius accomplished great work, but it seems as though geniuses at least try to tackle something larger than themselves.

Well, if Thomas Wolfe was a genius (and I'm not _entirely_ convinced), he seems to have used his abilities mostly to let everyone know just what a special, unique, amazing, unappreciated and put-upon soul Thomas Wolfe was.  Some may call that an accomplishment; I call it whining.

Mind you, "Look Homeward, Angel" is a very accomplished whine.  In all honesty, too, that's not all it is.  This book was one of the earliest examples of American realism as it came to prominence between the World Wars, a movement that included Hemingway, Fitzgerald, and all those other guys trying to shake loose from the Victorian romantic tradition.  This means that Wolfe devoted considerable effort to descriptions of Southern small-town life around the turn of the century in all its details, including the ones that respectable people preferred not to think about.  As such, it's a convincing job.

Structurally, this is pretty straight narrative, which means that whatever was innovative about it had to come through Wolfe's writing style.  "Look Homeward, Angel" concerns the history of Eugene Gant, Wolfe's alter ego, from a few years before his birth in North Carolina to his departure for graduate school at Harvard University.

He grows, learns to deal with an alcoholic force of nature for a father, a semi-delusional miser for a mother, and a bunch of half-crazed older siblings.  He explores the town from its wealthiest mansions to it most degraded poverty and racism.  He goes to school and shows early promise, reads incessantly and fancies himself the hero of the grand drama that is his life.  He falls in love two or three times, sometimes platonically and sometimes not.  He attends college, finding it difficult at first, but soon makes a place of prominence for himself there.  Finally, upon coming home, losing a favorite brother to tuberculosis and discovering the joys of alcohol, he confronts his family's collective sickness and littleness of mind, and heads north.

None of this is terribly unusual.  Indeed, any young person with any soul at all has probably gone through similar phases and stages, including the conviction that no one has ever gone through anything remotely like this before (ah, I remember the attitude well).  That's what makes "Look Homeward, Angel" such an unbelievable pain in the rear; Wolfe apparently never grew up enough to realize that his experiences are universal, and so throughout his book he insisted on couching Eugene's (or his own) smallest experiences in the imagery of glorious Homeric adventure, with language to match.

Sometimes this actually works.  When, for instance, Wolfe describes the opening of a day in the Gant household with its boisterous flow of energy and alarming quantities of breakfast, the inflated language sucks you right in, makes you want to grab a plum from the Gants' table and chow down.  The town, the people and the life are so vivid that it's no wonder people believed in them.  Some found the sensuality so overwhelming they seemed to regard Wolfe as a threat to public morals.

Elsewhere, though, particularly when showing us Eugene's inner life, the whole edifice falls apart like used Kleenex.  Which may be appropriate considering the tears Wolfe obviously expects us to shed for Eugene, but it's hardly pleasant or inspiring.  Surely it was possible, for instance, to give us Eugene's melodramatic love for a boarder in his mother's hotel without making him seem quite so pathetic?  This is a boy and a slightly older girl in a run-down boardinghouse in North Carolina, after all, not Lancelot and Guinevere in noble but doomed love at Camelot, but you'd never know that from the language Wolfe uses.

There was something I found disrespectful in Wolfe's utter inability to judge what tone to take with regular people and their lives.  Such things are without question worthy of attention and respect; that's the whole idea of America.  Wolfe's writing at these moments made me wonder if he was really attending to his characters and their experiences, or whether he was just using the whole thing to show off how fancy his writing could be.  Made me want to reach into the book and slap him.  Twice.

So why the four stars?  Well, because the man could actually write, dammit.  He could write so well that even his purplest passages fascinated me.  And at the end, as callow as Eugene Gant remains and as unaware of how ridiculous his moans of ecstasy and woe can be, I couldn't help liking the jerk.  If I came across someone like him in real life, I'd think he was going to be a very worthwhile man one day, after a good kick in the pants or two.

Thomas Wolfe didn't live long enough to benefit from such a kick in the pants, but his books show what he might have made of himself, so the air of melancholy about his prose feels earned somehow.  And he certainly helped deliver a very useful kick to American literature, booting it right out of its leftover 19th-century politeness.  For that alone, "Look Homeward, Angel" deserves our gratitude.

Benshlomo says, God save me from a genius who knows he's a genius
