Masterson has written a book that could serve as a practical and seemingly well-intentioned guide to the process of building a fortune for the budding (and even not-so budding) careerist. I am not a financial specialist so I will not pretend to be able to assess the soundness of his financial ideas. I can tell you this however: since buying the book I have become thriftier, less idealistic when it comes to matters of money, and at the same time more financially ambitious - and with a plan.  All this has not come at the cost of reducing the quality of my life, but on the contrary, I feel that my life has been enhanced in the last two weeks from reading this book as well as "Richest Man in Babylon". These changes came from small pieces of advice from Masterson's book rather than the larger ideas and plans. I am still sceptical of his views on real estate and stock market investment.  Be warned that the book is a bit fluffy and sometimes you will have to read through a lot before getting substantial ideas and during those times you will not have the benefit of reading particularly engaging prose, so be patient, you will likely find that the wait was worthwhile.

His self-centered writing style is typical of works in this genre. Sometimes though, it is self-centered to the extent that it raises doubts on his objectivity. For instance, he prescribes that one should make it early to work--significantly earlier than expected. In principle, a good idea for sure, however, when he later compounds this idea with the fact that "every successful person" he knows gets to work early (p 221) it reads as a little preachy and a tad disorienting for the night owl that I am. Over generalizing from his own experience and opinions like this is something that you will have to watch out for when you read this book.  But hopefully are you read critically when reading any book so this advice should be superfluous.

I was startled when I reached the final chapter of the book. I must admit that I am generally cynical of financial self-help books. I find that they tend to be overly materialistic and disregard other more important moral values in life. Masterson's chapter on "Living Rich Starting Tomorrow" was a welcome shock for me because he stressed the importance of `living' as your primary goal. His revelations on the happiness as it relates to other values in life were up-to-date with the recent research in the area. I felt his message in that last chapter was: money and happiness are not necessarily twins, pursue money but don't let the pursuit consume you. The choice is not whether to be rich or a tree-hugger, you can be both if you want and in the last chapter he tries to tell you how to squeeze some extra juice from what you already have or what you could conceivably have in the near future.
