A couple of centuries ago, essayists voiced opinions in newspapers or pamphlets.  Some, hidden in anonymity, could counsel protest and sedition.  Today's freer societies allows the writer to drop a mask hiding identity. Voicing opinions openly is easier.  The downside is that it may take a whole book.  And the problems appear to be looming far larger than they were long ago.  Examining foundation causes takes more ink.  In this insightful study, Benjamin Barber applies the best essayist's style to address the issues underlying today's American expansionism.  A nation that once based its relationship with other nations on the promise that it would never start a war, has adopted an unilateral adventurist role.  And that new identity has far outstripped in time and scope any historical precedent.  The entire globe is threatened with becoming "Americanised".  Why should that be happening?

With clear, incisive prose Barber examines the roots of the values held in the United States and how those are being manifested in its "foreign policy".  Once, it was important to Americans that society be governed by "the rule of law".  This commonly-used and nearly trite phrase reflected both the foundation of compromise among the States embodied in the US Constitution and in how Americans interacted with other nations.  The attitude created a sense of moral superiority to American dealings with other nations - an attitude Barber labels "exceptionalism".  This high sense of self-worth carried the American population across the continent.  Who else could coin a term like "Manifest Destiny" to sweep aside indigenous peoples in creating a contiguous empire?

Once the North American landmass was occupied, according to Barber, the United States could sit smugly isolated from the remainder of the planet.  Two global conflicts, which the Americans viewed in absolutist terms, eroded the notion of "isolationism", but didn't erase the concept of "exceptionalism".  With the high moral fervour it adopted in pursuing two world wars, the United States has entered on an expansionist programme, accellerated by the attack on the World Trade Centre.  That assault gave the Republican incumbent administration the impetus to use fear in two directions - within the United States and beyond its borders.  

Are Bush's foreign policies derived from his cabal of "neo-con" advisors?  Barber dismisses that notion.  Bush, he says, is sufficiently motivated by a strong belief in America's "missionary rationales" and "exceptional virtue".  With the power available to enforce those values elsewhere, Barber demonstrates how Bush is able to divide the world into "Manichean camps" of good and evil.  From that stance the President has convinced enoughAmericans that foreign intervention is just and proper.  It allows him to sacrifice troops in a flawed campaign to force democracy in Iraq at gunpoint while retaining domestic support.  Using fear at home allows Bush to instill fear abroad.  Barber insists that all that military might driven by a sense of dread, real or manufactured, is a threat to global security.  If American hegemony isn't sustainable in today's conditions, what can restore stability? 

Barber reminds his readers of US leadership in forming the United Nations.  He notes that the theme of "internationalism" of the post-WWII era was too vague and utopian.  The fear of eroded "national sovereignty", he argues, should be replaced by a new, pragmatic idea - "interdependence".  Interdependence recognises that all nations have their own interests.  Like the collection of States making up the US, Barber's proposed framework would work through mutual respect and compromise.  Bush's assault on Afghanistan and Iraq shows how far the US has moved from its post-war ideals.  "Independence", as currently expressed in the US' exceptionalist framework, is a false mythology.  Barber wants it replaced by a realistic outlook.  "Pax Americana", reflective of the "Pax Romana" of the Roman Empire, is unsustainable.  It is nothing more than an expression of power which must ultimately fail.

If we must adopt labels, Barber argues, then let us adopt "lex humana" or a rule of law for all people.  Barber suggests the US learn to cope with "preventive democracy" - variations of the American model applicable to different cultures.  He offers examples of democratic societies that aren't blind imitations of what the US practices.  For numerous reasons, other societies cannot simply copy the US blueprint.  They must build with their own materials and plans to build similar structures of equal strength.  The only aspect of this book lacking is the mechanism by which one man might be convinced to shed the false mythologies he's operating under - and dragging the American people with him.  [stephen a. haines - Ottawa, Canada
