

If only all philosophers wrote with such lucidity, clarity, and concision! This is a most articulate and descriptive analysis of Hume's thought in context of those who preceded him and detractors who have followed. Garrett is a first-rate apologist, not of the philosopher, but of the cognitive psychologist, David Hume. From the outset, Garrett regards Hume's significant contributions to cognitive psychology as first rate and unparalleled in history. What Garrett shows on this interpretation is that Hume uses the philosophical method to explicate his cognitive psychology.

Garrett first contextualizes Hume in the empirical school of philosophy vis-a-vis the rationalists; experience sola is normative, everything else speculation. But Hume's philosophy is less pronounced than his psychology, which dominates all his thought. Hume intends not to speculate, but observe, and make generalizations about his observations in regards to human understanding, passions, and sentiments - i.e., human nature. Seen in this light, many of the irreconcilable problems philosophers have raised concerning Hume seem to dissipate, and a new appreciation for his cognitive insights become more pronounced.

Garrett's heuristic approach is very Thomistic in tenor and form. Similar to Aquinas, he posits Hume's theories in a brief synopsis, outlines the controversies it has provoked, provides a logical framework to provide answers, and then answers the critics. The first chapter, in addition to a historical context, also established the essential frameworks that Hume works within: (1) Imagination vs. Intellect; (2) the Copy Principle; (3) Evidentiary Inferences; (4) the Five Kinds of Empiricism; (5) the Separability Principle; (6) the Philosophical Method of Cognitive Psychology; and (7) Reason vs. Induction. The remainder of the book examines Hume's central tenets in light of the foregoing: (i) The definitions of `cause;' (ii) liberty and necessity; (iii) on miracles; (iv) personal identity; (v) moral evaluation; and (vi) skepticism and commitment.

Unlike Norman Kemp Smith's excellent, but slightly outdated, "Philosophy of David Hume," written near the middle of the 20th C., Garrett tackles both religion and moral commitment after his exegesis of Hume's epistemology - in the same order as found in Hume's "Treatise on Human Nature." Also unlike Smith, Garrett goes beyond the THN to examine all of Hume's work, where he finds considerable consistency of mind and approach. Also unlike Smith, Garrett is far more deferential to Hume; this book is definitely a defense against the critics. That's not to say Garrett is unabashed in his favoritism; he acknowledges some of Hume's shortcomings. But where possible, Garrett, using the paradigm of cognitive psychology, defends Hume in an intelligent, concise, and elegant manner. I recommend both, starting first with Smith; but if access is limited to only one, let it be Garrett's
