Wow. I knew that homosexuality was biologically natural - i.e. it occurs naturally to various degrees and in various forms in numerous species including humans - but I had no idea of the extent, or of the similarity of many species to human sexuality.

If one thinks of heterosexual animals that pair bond, in some cases for life, as the animal equivalent of human heterosexual marriage, then logically, homosexual animals that pair bond, in some cases for life, are the animal equivalent of human gay marriages. Guess what? From such a perspective, animals have gay marriage!

The species' that are most similar to humans (based on the categories of courtship, affection, sexual behavior, pair-bonding, and parenting) are the Bonobo (or pygmy chimpanzee - which is the species most directly related to humans), the Orang-utan, and the Bottle Nose Dolphin. 

Homosexual sexual activities among animals include mounting, anal intercourse, clitoral penetration, oral intercourse (for both males and females), mutual masturbation (including face to face GG-rubbing - genito-genital [i.e. mutual clitoral] rubbing by females), solitary masturbation, the use of tools for masturbation (equivalents of a dildo and a vibrator), penile fencing, rump-rubbing (mutual rubbing of genital and anal areas), digital genital and anal stimulation, the use of natural herbal abortion medicines, and in one species, the delay - in some cases permanent - of conception by manually stimulating the nipples (some species don't go into heat while suckling occurs, and the animals have learned to prevent themselves from going into heat by manually stimulating their nipples.) Dolphins have some tricks I'd never heard of. They have "nasal sex" - the insertion and stimulation of the penis by the blow hole; and "sonic sex" - the stimulation of the genitals using sonic pulses; as well as "beak-genital propulsion" - when the nose is inserted into the male of female genital slit, manually stimulating the genitals while propelling them along. I couldn't possibly describe all of it here.

The book also describes non-reproductive heterosexual activities, which are also quite common, if not ubiquitous. It also covers intersexuality and transvestism among animals.

Gay animals court each other (sometimes with specifically homosexual courtship rites), express affection, have all kinds of gay sex, pair-bond, and parent. Many animal species are functionally bisexual, but the same range of sexuality that occurs in humans also occurs in animals, such that even among a species that is primarily bisexual, there will be individuals who are exclusively heterosexual or homosexual.

The last half of the book ends with a breakdown of currently known species in which homosexuality occurs, and the form it takes (pair-bonding, courtship, etc.), as well as other broader info on the species.)

It's a great read, and a great resource for those who are ignorant of the existence and extent of animal homosexuality.
