It's not hard to see why Hitchcock made John Buchan's "The Thirty-Nine Steps" into a film (which I have not seen).  It's a taut, smart, dramatic little thriller, full of the unlikely events Hitch really grooved on.  I was quite pleased at the end of this breezy novel, which is a pretty obvious source of LeCarre, Fleming, et al.  It's also a marvelous example of fiction incorporating the zeit geist of the era in which it was written.

Richard Hannay, late of South Africa, finds himself terribly bored in London, 1914 (which, having been to London, can't possibly imagine), until he meets the mysterious Franklin Scudder.  Allowing Scudder to live in his home, Hannay is astonished by Scudder's bizarre raving tale of an elaborate conspiracy to initiate war among the European powers.  Hannay takes this story with a bit of skeptisism until he comes home one night to find Scudder pinned to the floor by a knife.  Thus begins an elaborate and episodic chase, as Hannay, fully believing Scudder's claims, must run from the police and from the conspiracy, the Black Stone.  

Buchan is most successful in creating Hannay's elaborate schemes and escapes.  Hannay is a likeable hero, so the reader readily roots for him.  Further, the villains, while never fully developed (it is Hannay's story), make for sinister threats just off-page, so to speak.  The denouement is satisfying, if more than a little tragic.  

This book is also fascinating because the conspiracy, with changes in detail, basically mirrors the events that ignited World War I.  Various radical interests seek to assassinate a prominent figure (although Princip had no idea of the consequences of assassinating Franz Ferdinand), and trip the various political alliances to start a war.  Thus, Buchan incorporates the weird mixture of patriotism and panic that most historians point to when they chronicle the First World War.  

The downside of that zeit geist is that Buchan incorporates a certain level of anti-Semitism, some of it being of dubious necessity.  Scudder is convinced that Jews are responsible, because they want Russia to be destroyed by the war.  While we later learn that Scudder had prejudices against Jews, Scudder himself acknowledges the anti-Semitic history of Russia.  Another occasion, Hannay makes an analogy that plays on the stereotypes of Jews as being wealthy.  Again, that is probably an accurate reflection of the times, but it is uncomfortable.  To Buchan's credit, the conspiracy is more than simply an "evil Jewish plot" (it's telling that some of the rhetoric Buchan uses is still floating around today).

Nonetheless, as with most older literature, you have to take the prejudices in context of when the book was written.  "The Thirty-Nine Steps" is not an heir to the "Protocols of the Elders of Zion".  It is an exciting thriller, featuring a heavy does of suspense and intrigue.  Simply put, it's a blast. 
