In this fine debut novel, Chieh Chieng explores the off-beat characters of a Chinese-American family through three generations living in Orange County, California.  Louis Lum is a recent college graduate working as an underpaid fact-checker at a hot rod magazine, not the kind of position his mother Mirla had hoped for him.  Louis once reveled in rebelling against his mother; however, Mirla has recently died in a car accident, brought on when an overworked medical student, Hersey Collins, fell asleep behind the wheel, and Louis feels guilty at having disappointed her.  Louis's father Sonny calls Louis every night and threatens to murder Hersey to avenge Mirla's death.  Because Louis does not know how serious his father is about his intentions,  he moves in and stays up late with his father, listening to his father's rap records, keeping him from stabbing Hersey, and trying to figure him out.  Meanwhile Louis's feisty grandmother Esther is worried about her youngest son Bo, who moved to Hong Kong years ago and who recently has severed all communication with her.  Eventually, Esther convinces Louis to travel to Hong Kong to track down Bo to see if he is really "alive and in good health" while Esther watches over Sonny to make sure he doesn't follow through on his threats.  

The narrative weaves multiple points-of-view throughout the generations to give a full portrait of this quirky family. The Lums are an eccentric, unintentionally hilarious lot, caught up more in their American life than in their Chinese ancestry.  After all, Sonny is more adamant about blacks respecting their culture by listening to gangsta rap than he is about the truths and myths about his own.  Louis speaks Cantonese so badly that, for his whole life, he has been unintentionally calling his father "Old Bean" instead of "Old Man."  Esther makes the worst turnip cakes ever cooked, botching the traditional recipe so badly that everyone ends up with stomach aches.  The story leaps backward and forward in time, from character to character, in a collage that coalesces around Louis, the youngest surviving member of a family prone to premature deaths.

Chieh Chieng brings all this together with a dry wit and an eye for the absurd.  The understated humor never demeans his characters and instead makes them more lovable.  The result is an entertaining, heartfelt book about one family's oddities and how those quirks come to define them.  
