"Shanghai", the book, is a good history of one of the world's great crossroads. Stella Dong follows the fortunes of Shanghai for 107 years and enlivens the chronicle with hundreds of its colorful and sometimes truly unsavory denizens. From its main formative event, the Opium War of 1839-42, to the closing of an era with the takeover of the communists in 1949, Shanghai was filled and refilled with sharpers and refugees from around the globe.

The Opium War, less a war than a program of intimidation conducted by the British to protect the "right" of Scottish magnates and Iraqi Jews and others to sell opium in Chinese ports, led to a treaty in 1842 which provided for the establishment of a foreign section in Shanghai. Here, the British and other nationalities could operate without being subject to the laws of China.

So, like Hong Kong, the foreign section became a piece of Europe grafted onto China. The British, then the Americans and the French, operated what amounted to microcolonies almost completely devoted to commerce. The opium trade was foremost, followed by cotton, but the trade in human beings was also big in Shanghai, so much so that the very name of the city was given to the practice of abducting Chinese. American, British, and French companies kidnapped or "Shanghaied" Chinese men and took them away in ships resembling slave ships to work in mines and plantations in the Americas under conditions very similar to slavery. 

Christian missionaries, who had operated in China for centuries, now had more clout and a safe base of operations from which to wield it. They started drives to abolish prostitution and foot-binding, the latter being a thousand-year-old practice peculiar to the Chinese.  They were successful, according to Dong, in eradicating foot-binding in a relatively short period of time (30 years). I had heard of foot-binding before, and I knew that at some point it had stopped, but before reading this book I didn't know that missionaries had started the drive to abolish it. If true, it certainly counterbalances some of the less humane things the missionaries are known for.

The Japanese showed up in Shanghai in 1894 after winning a war with China, and demanded the same sort of privileges as the Europeans and Americans. Not content with just a part of Shanghai, however, they would shortly return for all of it. In the mean time, the Bolsheviks triumphed in Russia, and White Russian refugees flooded into Shanghai from Vladivostok to the north. Dong notes that this was a type of European the Shanghainese had not seen before: destitute and desperate. Yet just as they blended into the other cities of the Russian exodus such as Berlin and New York, the Russians were soon an integral part of Shanghai, thriving chiefly in the various realms of nightlife: cabarets, tearooms, restaurants, dance halls...

By 1920 all the elements were assembled for a scene as glamorous and decadent as any the world has seen, and it played out in Shanghai against the backdrop of one of the world's oldest monarchies changing into a republic. Like all great parties, however, it lasted but a moment. The Japanese came and shut things down in 1937. After they were defeated, the Shanghainese had only four short years to recover before the Chinese Communists came and put an end to any sort of foreign influence that remained. 

Dong keeps strictly to 1949 as her endpoint, and one can't fault her for that. Still, it would be very interesting to know the fate of all the capitalist enterprises that thrived in the city. Is there any connection at all, for example, between any of the old merchant houses and the burgeoning Chinese communist/capitalists who work there now? After all, there was only about 30 years from 1949 to the time that Deng proclaimed "to get rich is glorious". Perhaps more than just the buildings on the Bund survive.
