Moonrush, by Dennis Wingo, is a compelling argument for our immediate return to the Moon.  The author's argument is straightforward: our civilization needs platinum and light helium.  A hydrogen economy requires fuel cells.  Fuel cells require platinum.  Earthly sources of platinum will not be adequate for the projected demand for fuel cells.  Thanks to lengthy bombardment by meteorites, the Moon almost certainly has the platinum we need for the hydrogen economy of the future.  Further in the future, fusion power will need light helium as its fuel.  A lunar infrastructure for mining platinum can be turned to extracting light helium from the lunar regolith.

Wingo argues against treating a return to the Moon as a scientific venture.  He makes the argument that many are making these days: government funds can set the stage for the return by developing technology and infrastructure.  However, the driving force for a permanent base on the Moon must be private ventures extracting resources for profit.  According to Wingo, only such ventures will turn the Moon into a thriving outpost of humanity; and only such ventures will aid Earth in dealing with our current and future energy crisis.  I agree with the author's position.

Readers should expect some figures and some math.  Wingo discusses energy and its place in our civilization.  He looks at the energy problems we face today and explores what we will face in the immediate future.  Then he makes his case for return to the Moon to extract platinum for use on Earth.  The last portion of the book is a look at various models for Earth-Moon transportation over the past half-century.  Wingo concludes Moonrush with his own vision of an Earth-Moon transportation infrastructure for returning lunar resources to Earth, complete with cost estimates. 

Overall, Moonrush is an excellent, informative read.  I found myself having to wade through some of the facts and figures and diagrams.  However, the effort was worthwhile and contributed greatly to my understanding of the author's premise.  Moonrush is for the space enthusiast and those who think space exploration will never yield concrete, commercial results.
