I started BEGINNER'S LUCK with some skepticism:  I wasn't sure of the target audience for a small-town coming-of-age story about a 16-year-old high school dropout, runaway, semi-professional gambler/math genius.

How could the main character, Hallie (as in the Comet) Palmer be a good role model for impressionable teenage readers?  And for older readers, what would be the compelling interest, having experienced adolescent angst and 'been there, done that' to one extent or another?  (Although I'm not sure how many of us were teenage gamblers?)

By the end of Chapter 1, you'll be engaged by Laura Pedersen's straightforward, funny, clever writing style and turns-of-phrase, many having some allusion to poker or gambling, as do all the chapter titles.

By the end of Chapter 3, you'll be drawn in by Hallie herself, the first person narrator, who, in spite of her growing reputation as "the town miscreant" for various misadventures, turns out to be a very intelligent, deep-thinking, somewhat confused teenager.  Not so much a hardened criminal as a hard worker with a good heart.  Not so much a juvenile delinquent, at least in attitude or intent, as a typical teenager--impatient, naïve, self-conscious, and conflicted about everything: school, family, boys, sex, growing up and finding her place in the world.

By the end of Chapter 7, when the remainder of the cast of colorful characters is introduced, you'll be hooked into the wonderful world of Hallie Palmer.

The first book of a projected four-book series, in BEGINNER'S LUCK, we get to know Hallie as she drops out of high school, runs away from home (with six brothers and sisters, and more on the way, who could blame her?!), and finds refuge and the space to sort everything out as a live-in yard person in the truly out-of-the-ordinary Stockton home.

Life is never dull with Bernard Stockton, a flamboyant (yes, that's right, read: GAY) antiques dealer; his equally-charming, long-term boyfriend, Gil; his gracefully aging, revolutionary, free-spirited mother, Olivia; his father, the Judge, an ailing Alzheimer's patient; and an alcoholic Chimpanzee named Rocky.  Eclectic, yes.  Eccentric, definitely.  These characters will make you wish for small town innocence (as claustrophobic as it can be), and long for the nostalgia that people and places like this might actually exist.

With such a colorful backdrop of characters, the plot is just as original, as Hallie matures and finds her way, even graduating from high school under the private tutelage of Olivia Stockton.  She even kind of resolves the age-old Sex issue with her boyfriend, who is pressuring her, with a surprisingly explicit few pages toward the end of the book--explicit, yet very genuine, and she remains a virgin, which is a refreshing, intelligent choice in teenage literature.  Congratulations to Laura Pedersen for handling this sensitive issue so well.

I look forward to continuing to read about Hallie's adventures, and this is a book I would love to have my someday-a-teenager daughter read, when she's ready for teenage issues.

Sherri Caldwell, co-author, The Rebel Housewife Rules: To Heck With Domestic Bliss
