`Let nobody be in any doubt, the rules of the game are changing' quoth Mr T Blair a couple of months ago. I know what I thought about that, I would have expected John Mortimer to think much the same, and thankfully he is still around to put the issue across far better than I could. Readers of his other work, not only the Rumpole stories but also, say, Dunster, will know what world-view to expect from him by now - justice and fairness are very little better than a lottery but the fight for them must and will go on. Mortimer is a novelist of course, not an essayist, but the pamphleteering element is perhaps the most important ingredient in his novels, as it might be thought to be in those of Dickens. 

Mortimer's much-loved anti-hero Horace Rumpole, an undistinguished but astute and sharp-tongued lawyer, is here again, this time to take part in Mr Blair's game whose rules are changing. Blair (himself a lawyer and whose wife is an advocate of the greatest distinction in the field of - human rights, wouldn't you believe) never tackles the issue head-on, and small wonder. We can follow the changes he is making (or trying to make) but we get only evasions from him when we try to ascertain just how these changes impinge on the fundamental rights enshrined in the Magna Charta, particularly of course the entitlement of Habeas Corpus. We all know that we face a new type of threat, we all know that national security is paramount, we all have a general idea of the particular culture the threat comes from, we all know that detection and obtaining evidence are vital to thwarting terrorist outrages, we all know that secrecy is vital to the security services, but these generalities - disputed by nobody - are all that Tony will tell us. When misgivings are expressed about extending the period over which suspects can be detained without being charged, when clarification is sought of such a novel legal concept as `glorifying' terrorism, when it is proposed to withdraw the right of trial in open court, when the fundamental entitlement to a presumption of innocence until proved otherwise looks itself to be under attack from new legislation, he just reiterates that we face a new type of threat, that national security is paramount and so on and so on. What exactly the `game' is I'm not fully clear, but the rules of the debate seem to involve going round in circles while the general direction of travel ought to give rise to general alarm.

Hang the issue around Rumpole and we have a very entertaining narrative as usual, given a new spice from the contributions of She, who is writing Her memoirs too. She still doesn't purport to be much more than a caricature, and it's probably fair to say the same of the other participants in the story except of course Rumpole. I'm sure a certain amount of drawing from life has gone on, but I can only partly appreciate it. I'm in no doubt that the name Lamorna Cove refers to a certain famous advocate, but I'm missing the point of the allusion through not being myself a lawyer. Again, there have been four Home Secretaries in Blair's government, I'd be surprised if the fictional Home Secretary here is not modelled to some extent on these but I'm not sure what parallels Mortimer is really drawing. And of course I cannot even imagine which Lord Chancellor he had in mind when he makes one of his characters say `The Lord Chancellor doesn't get drunk.' I like to think, or at least to hope, that there is an element of exaggeration in this tale of ego-trippers, placemen, amorous judges, conservative prejudices, playing to the gallery, second-guessing public reactions, political pressures and improper influence masquerading as the administration of English justice. I take some comfort from the thought that there is a strong parodistic strain in the narrative, and that some of the main turns of events, such as the Perry-Mason-style denouement in court are pantomime scenarios rather than real life. However even if so I'm uncomfortably aware that it's only exaggeration, not outright invention. In the last resort Mortimer knows the courts and I don't.

We all love Rumpole, and I'm sure it gave his creator pleasure to trundle him out again on his Rosinante of stubborn and cynical opposition to the forces of sheer irrationality that seem to be inherent in the culture of all large organisations and of the law in particular. However at age 83 and in frail health Sir John is not likely to have written this novel just as a labour of love. This book is a pamphlet in narrative garb, created out of an urgent sense of alarm. I quite concede that Mortimer's advocacy is one-sided, but that's advocacy. After all, there are real problems for the police in obtaining evidence within the timeframe permitted under the current law. There are issues outside of Britain's control in obtaining international co-operation from states whose libertarian characteristics leave something to be desired and there are pressures on Britain from quarters which claim to be libertarian by some species of definition, appearances often strongly to the contrary. It will undoubtedly make life easier in Britain to return certain foreign residents to countries of origin where their likely treatment does not bear much imagining. All this is true, but the question does not end there, and although the challenge is enormous it will not do to pretend, as Blair seems to pretend, that it does end there or that the perceptions of totalitarian drift are unreal or unimportant. Taking the line of least resistance and relying on public apathy and prejudice may end with the hard-won achievements of 1215 rendered null by 2015, we can't blame it on the politicians if we sit idly by, and it needs to bring out the Rumpole that is hopefully latent in each of us
