When I read the Thin Red Line, I was impressed by the imagery and character development, but I found myself searchign for the theme of the novel.  There is no lead character, so I wasn't sure what point of view I was being asked to take.  Most of the characters are unlikeable, secretive and selfish.  But then I began to realize that this was the theme of the novel.  It's about what war turns men into.  All of these men in a normal time and place would enjoy friends and families, they'd have hobbies and ambitions and would feel love and kindness, but the war has robbed them of their capacity to care about anyone but themselves. 

Most war stories are about the way that war brings men together, bonds them in ways that peacetime can never equal, but there is no bonding in The Thin Red Line.  They're all on their own, selfishly scrabbling for survival.  A few characters do show signs of humanity, but their kindness leads only to disgrace, death or tagedy.  

As for the movie, All I can say is that I enjoyed the military scenes, but nothing in the movie holds a candle to the novel.  Each character in the novel is so vivid and fascinating, but in the movie many of the actors don't seem to have any idea how to bring that character to life.  Nick Nolte is awesome.  He's exactly like the novel character.  But Adrian Brody is nothing at all like Fife.  

Mostly I was annoyed by how wimpy the movie was.  There are scenes of horror in the book that are treated in the movie bloodlessly.  It would have been better not to include those scenes at all.  For instance, theres a long passage where an unlucky soldier is badly wounded in the field and is screaming bloody murder.  In the movie his screams motivate compassion, and people die trying to help him.  In the novel people are motivated by disgust at his screams.  His screams are looked on as major annoyances, and he is credited with destroying the company's morale.  So people die trying to shut him up.  That was a raw and horrific scene in the novel, and would have been amazing if they'd done it properly in the movie.

Anyway, this is not an enjoyable novel, but it was definitely well written and not the same old thing.  I've never read another war novel that's anything like it
