I am a big fan of Nora Roberts.  I love the ones that she writes with a touch of magick in them, and this time she delivers in a big way -- witches, vampires, shift-shaper, time travelers, and of course, romance.

This is the first of a triology centering around Hoyt, a wizard, and his vampire brother Cian.  They are brought together by Morrigan, the pagan goddess of war.  She gives them a mission -- save the world from Lilith, a 2,000 year old vampire who just happens to be Cian's sire.  She tells Hoyt that he must gather four more to complete the circle of heroes who will travel to Geall, another world where they will do battle with Lilith and her army of vampires.  They have a very short time to train and prepare for this war which will take place on Samhain, the pagan name for the present day Halloween.

Hoyt meets his true love, Glenna, in modern day New York City.  She is a witch with tremendous power.  Together they prove to be an indomitable foe of the vamps.

Usually Roberts centers her stories around the romance, but this time, it is more about the situation that they are in.  The first book is mostly about how the group comes together and how they prepare for the mission given them.  I grew a little bored when they were training and such, and that is the only reason I gave this book a four instead of five stars.  I would have liked a little more character development for each of them.  I didn't seem to connect with Hoyt as much as I usually do with the heroes of a Roberts book.

I really liked the description of Glenna's spells, and her belief system.  She prefers the safety of a circle when casting her spells, and Roberts does a good job of describing her magick and the dangers of mis-using your powers.  Being Wiccan and a practicing witch, I am appreciative of how Roberts is careful of how she presents the craft and the old religion.  

My daughter is reading the second one, and tells me that it is really good, too.  Hey, how can you go wrong with a book by Nora Roberts?

