
"Foreign Affairs" was originally published in 1984 and won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction. The novel is a tale of manners (as well as customs and psychological proclivities) rather than a romance. It follows two Americans -- Professor Vinnie Miner and her younger colleague, Fred Turner -- through several months spent in London doing research. Both scholars become enmeshed in affairs that, to say the least, don't begin, proceed, or end predictably. But the book isn't meant to be a breathless, sentimental Harlequin. Vinnie and Fred's relationships are almost coincidental during most of the narrative. The real theme being explored with myriad details and examples concerns how these two Americans experience and cope with being in an English-speaking-but-foreign-nonetheless country. Many of the characters are quite brittle beings; certainly, Vinnie and Fred are. Many are also pretentious and, from within their armor of polished courtesy, they tend to see their cousins from across the sea with superficial eyes, not as whole, complicated people who are much more than stereotypes and veneer. Both sides are guilty; the novel's continual aim is to put under a microscope how precisely the various characters undervalue or downright misconstrue. Only the feelings -- mainly anxieties and irritations -- of the two American scholars are revealed to the reader as the chapters alternate between their two viewpoints. The Londoners and the other Americans who appear have to be evaluated based on conversations with Vinnie or Fred or actions in their presence. But even through an American filter, "Foreign Affairs" paints a painstaking picture of the ways that foreign guests and the natives fail to bridge the chasm between. The novel also reminds us that even fellow nationals often treat each other differently abroad than they would at home and gives us a picture of how and why this might be.

Just before "Foreign Affairs," I finished "The National Book Award Winner: A Novel of Fame, Honor, and Really Bad Weather" by Jincy Willett. For a time, I thought they had in common a paucity of main plot and too many digressions and sideline observations. Willett's book did not gain favor with me for doing this. And during the first half of "Foreign Affairs" I was fast reaching the same conclusion about Alison Lurie's Pulitzer Prize winner. But in the final chapters -- even though I felt down over the outcomes of Fred's and Vinnie's relationships -- I appreciated the intricately textured behaviors and opinions that were so minutely documented. The plot, which climaxes with drama and surprise, is enhanced by every detail. I wouldn't go as far as the "Philadelphia Inquirer," and praise "Foreign Affairs" as "a flawless jewel," but I am glad I discovered this reprint of this fine novel. Rather than be forgotten, this book deserves to continue to be read and appreciated for its insights into human nature.

   
