 Oblomov is a lazy man. He is a reasonably well off - but not rich - Russian aristocrat, enjoying the labour that his three hundred serfs provide, but not really aware of either the scope of his holdings, or exactly what it takes for the town of Oblomovka to produce the thousands of roubles he is provided with each year. Once an energetic young man, ready to change the word with ideas and action, he has faded into a fat, lazy slob.

He has a very few friends. All but one of these friends visit Oblomov to leech money and food from him, and he happily allows it because he knows there will always be more. They sit around all day talking of nothing, or sleeping, or eating. That has been their life, thanks to the hard work of Oblomov's serfs, for the past decade. Oblomov's only useful friend, Stolz, tries desperately to coax him back into the real world, attempting to interest him in plays, opera, socialisation, anything at all. But Oblomov is not interested, content to while away his life inside his dirty rooms, eating and sleeping, sleeping and eating.

And yet, Oblomov is a sympathetic character. Perhaps this is because we have all had feelings of laziness, we have always questioned the reasons for living an active, energetic life. Oblomov reasons that a man could spend thirty years working hard to provide himself ease and comfort in his old age, or he could simply begin the ease and comfort now, when he is a young man. He internalises at great lengths over the path he has chosen, and surprisingly, his ideas and choices seem valid. Perhaps not something an ordinary person could choose - we don't all have peasants and villages in our name - but if we did, why not? Why not choose a life of easy living, of good meals and (arguably) good company?

Soon into the story, Oblomov is dealt the twin blows of having to move from his apartments, and finding out that his village is no longer providing the level of money he is used to. Here he shows his true colours, seemingly unable to act, unable to do much of anything. He puts the signing of papers and the writing of letters off until tomorrow, always tomorrow, and it is almost too late when Stolz saves the day. He implores Oblomov, telling him that his current lifestyle is unhealthy, and that he will be dead within the decade if he continues such activities - or rather, no activities at all.

It it not Stolz who awakens him from his slumber. No, he meets a young woman, Olga, and falls in love. To be honest, when this thread of the novel began, I wasn't too impressed. It seemed as though the moral of the story would be that love conquers all, an answer that I did not think would be within Oblomov's character. Thankfully, Goncharov did not use this easy solution, instead keeping Oblomov true to himself. The results are sad, but satisfactorily inevitable.

Throughout the novel, Goncharov introduces various side plots to illustrate how easy it is to take advantage of an idle aristocrat who has simply no idea of his own finances. The text makes it seem as though most of the nobility had no real concept of what is involved in getting from fallow earth to grown wheat to money in their hand. Oblomov comes across as the 'ultimate' aristocrat, one so removed from the reality in which he exists that he does not, for all intents and purposes, have any reality at all. Were Oblomov to suddenly die one day, his serfs would never know, his family are dead already, and his leeching friends would simply move on to another fool. As the perfect man of culture, Oblomov has nothing at all.

Towards the end of the novel, events become rushed, with years being skipped with almost every paragraph. But this serves to heighten the point Goncharov is trying to make. Oblomov's life is seen to be as ineffectual as possible, and even when he does make some small changes, the ripples quickly fade away. After his love affair is over, Oblomov considers his way of life validated, sinking even further into the stupor he had been carefully cultivating for years.

There are moments of humour within the novel. Oblomov's servant, Zakhar, is as pathetic as his master, and the interactions between the two are quite hilarious at times. Similarly, the scenes of love between Oblomov and Olga are touching, and accurately capture the naive adolescent love that everyone endures, only realising after the fact how ignorant those feelings really were. Almost all of the characters are very well done, with the possible exception of Stolz, who, as Goncharov himself said, is 'too good to be true', 'the idea peeping through him too nakedly'. He is, however, still an interesting enough character, but the times when the narration turns to him are admittedly weaker than when on any other character.

In the end, Oblomov is an interesting look at Russian aristocracy in the 19th century. While some elements are obviously caricatured, and Oblomov himself is - almost - too pathetic and oblivious to believe, the novel is definitely worth a look.
