This is one of the business classics in the past twenty years.  It has sold a huge number of copies and I am sure many of those purchased copies were actually read!  As impressive as its sales numbers have been, the way it has affected the approach to the way business was discussed and talked about for the past dozen years has been even more impressive.

Yes, there are always newer fads and business is subject to fads more than most fields of human endeavor.  There are lots of theories about why this is so, but it might have something to do with the new managers coming in wanting to bring something new with them and so the previous guy's stuff is no good.  Hence, something comes and something goes for reasons beyond its ability to run business in a sound and profitable way.  However, when something comes along with some real substance it spreads and lasts, at least for awhile.  The ideas of core values and big (hairy audacious) goals hit a chord and lasted.  Of course, today they are part of the air businesspeople breathe rather than a quote from this book.

The authors looked at a number of big companies and found a list of those that had been around a long time, been financially successful, and were on a roll at the time of this book (but they don't say this is one of their criteria).    They also found some comparable big company that hadn't found the level of success of the "visionary company" as they call the successful firms.  They then looked for some traits common to those big successful companies that might explain their success.  

The four big principles they came up with were: 1) Be a clock builder - or architect - not a time teller [once you read the chapter it will be clear], 2) Embrace the genius of the AND, 3) Preserve the core / stimulate progress, and 4) seek consistent alignment.

All this has to do with being opportunistic, building the organization that best supports the opportunities you are pursuing rather than letting the organization dictate what you pursue, that success requires doing seemingly contradictory goals simultaneously, making sure that the core culture gets preserved (if it has been a successful culture), and making sure that the whole process is focused on the core ideology - the core values and core purpose of the organization.  Sounds simple?  It's not.  And even so, the "visionary" companies the book lauded a dozen years ago have all, or almost all, fallen on various levels of hard times since the book came out.

This fact is addressed in a soft way in the frequently asked questions addition for this paperback addition.  There is also a new last chapter on building the vision and a section on questions for research (this acknowledges areas left unexplained by the book).  

A book that has been this influential deserves your attention if you are interested in business literature.  However, as with all of these books, use the principles as they apply to your real life in the real world of competitive business rather than treating them as some kind of final truth. 
