I found this to be a great book.  I don't think the book is perfect, and, as some other reviewers have pointed out, Paul can make some big jumps in her conclusions. So don't read this as a super-controlled scientific assessment (which it isn't supposed to be anyway). I found that the book wasn't anti-marriage or pro-marriage, but rather just touched up on a lot of the realities, myths, struggles, and ideas that Gen X (and a little older and younger) face when it comes marriage -- like how so many go into marriage with the subconscious expectation that it will make life complete or fix things that marriages just can't "fix." I was especially thankful on her section about the "wedding industry" that markets absurdly expensive weddings (the perfect dress, the biggest ring, the best food... the most important day of your life!) to individuals and couples and that often contributes to a loss of perspective about what the actual marriage after the wedding might involve. One of the most helpful things I got from this book was the articulation of a feeling that I and many of my friends have -- that you are not complete until you are married and that being married will "make things okay," which until this book I hadn't recognized as so widespread/generational/cultural. Secondly, I appreciated the feeling from the book that divorce can be okay, is sometimes better, but that sometimes a marriage just takes a little more work. I was glad she made it clear that marriage has had too high of expectations hoisted upon it, that it is hard work, can be great, can be hard, and can be rewarding. She is legitimately hard on the "pro-marriage" camp that promotes marriage as the savoir of civilization and that advocates staying married at all costs. If you want an anti-divorce book, this is not it. But if you want a fair treatment of many of the struggles that the twenty and thirty somethings face in trying to make a life with a partner, in the face of work, high expectations for marriage, our parents' marriages and divorces and a culture that sends amazingly mixed and strong messages about marriage, sex, and "success" this is a great place to start. Particularly for those thinking of getting married or struggling in the early years of a marriage, this might be particularly helpful to pique your thinking
