E.L. Doctorow's descriptive historical fiction follows a period of time during the formative years of young Billy Bathgate a 15 year old fatherless street kid from the ghettoes of the Bronx.  The time is the mid 1930's with the U.S. in the throes of the Depression.  The advent of prohibition assured that gangsterism ruled the urban landscape.

Bathgate who lived in a squalid and tiny tenement apartment with his mentally unbalanced Irish Catholic mom was hanging out on the streets doing juggling tricks at which he was adept.  He unwittingly came to be noticed by the notorious mobster Dutch Schultz.  Intrigued by the aura of the powerful crime boss, Bathgate soon ingratiated himself to the truculent Schultz.  He became and errand boy and good luck charm to the gang.  Nurtured under the wing of the fostering Otto "Abbadabba" Berman, the financial brains of the organization, Bathgate soon had both Schultz and Berman as father figures to esteem.  Even at such a tender age he managed to discern both the good and evil in his surrogate fathers.

Doctorow begins his novel on a tugboat in New York harbor.  Bathgate has secreted himself aboard to witness the dispatching of a previously trustworthy lieutenant of Schultz, Bo Weinberg.  Weinberg was being fitted for cement shoes and had been accompanied by a lovely young married socialite Drew Preston.  Preston also aboard belowdecks would become Schultz's moll.  Bathgate, now a trusted gang member, was commissioned with the duty of being Preston's protector.

Schultz, being pursued for prosecution by among others Thomas E. Dewey, successfully petitioned the courts to move his trial to bucolic upstate Onondaga.  The gang including Bathgate and Preston take up summer residence there with Schultz running his various illegal businesses by proxy.  Schultz acting as the civic minded model citizen is positively influencing the town who will be his jury.  As the trial approaches Berman at Schultz's request orders Bathgate to accompany Preston to Saratoga to get her out of the way.  As a result of this episode, they have an affair.  The lovesick Bathgate protects her from what he fears will be an assassination as she potentially becomes a liability in Schultz's eyes.

The story follows further episodes of the inner workings of Schultz gang and Bathgates maturation under the guidance of his mentor Berman.  Doctorow's finale assures that evil will be punished yet Bathgate is saved by his ability to recognize the difference between right and wrong and shelter himself from trouble.

Doctorow is extremely accomplished in this genre of historical fiction.  His expressive articulate descriptions of his settings is his trademark.  He successfully manages to tranform fact into plausible intriguing storytelling with well developed and often ambiguous, conflicted characters
