This is the best introductory text out there for comic book writing, but...

1. There are maybe a dozen books on the subject of comic book writing alone to begin with. Maybe half of which would be easy to find. So no matter how great a resource it is, it is a small field to choose from.

2. The book is heavily biased towards mainstream, superhero, comics.  The way he writes it, the same things could easily be applied to almost any genre of comic story. But he does assume at least some familiarity with superhero comics most of the time so a few people might be lost at times.

3. He doesn't include very many writing exercises. And the ones he does include are quite vague. If you want a good list of writing exercises check out Fiction Writer's Workshop by Novakovich, use those exercises and write them in comic form.

4. Honestly, for those of you guys who have read a lot of writing books or taken a lot of writing classes, probably a quarter to a third of it will be stuff you already know. Though it is very useful to read it in a form specifically designed to be applicable to comics.

5. He goes in to Joseph Campbell. 
     Honestly, I think Campbell is about the least useful thing to push on writers, particularly beginning writers. I've written a substantial amount on this subject. My main points are (and please note that this is coming from someone with a substantial background in literature, film and history):

A. He is more useful for studio executives then writers because his criticism is so clear cut and unambiguous that it lacks the ability to strive for deeper meanings and contextual analyses.

B. By looking more at the similarities of roles and meanings then the differences, he fails to see not only the disparate meanings but the potential for paralell evolution.

C. Since he did his work (I believe he died in the late 1980s but his seminal books were like the 50s and 60s), not only has there been a substantial rise in multicultural literature and the study of this in the context of a pluralistic literary canon, but there has also been a substantial amount of writing translated in to English for the first time (mostly non-Western) that Campbell was probably not taking in to account. Since Campbell wrote his books, gender studies, queer studies and ethnic studies have all started and/or became much more substantial critical movements.

D. The applications of Campbell for writers are even more harmful because they are the worst of both worlds in terms of wanting both a desire to make your project unique and attaching it to some kind of "universal" (which, like almost all definitions of universal, comes from a position of privelege and an agenda to maintain a specific canon). 

     But if you want another opinion, ask any screenwriter or screenwriting teacher.
     If you actually want a useful grounding in terms of literary theory and criticism check out Critical Theory Today by Lois Tyson or The Norton Anthology of Theory and Criticism edited by Leitch. 
     If you are interested in read literary criticism/theory in terms of contextual application to a given work of literature, my two favourite editions are the Case Studies in Contemporary Criticism and the Norton Critical Editions. Both of them have their strengths. The Norton ones are much easier to find, but, make sure to check the copyright date and get a newer version. The older versions tend to be a bit heavy on formalism and dated historical criticism that make them more useful for studying the interpretations of the work then the actual work (for people not interested in that sort of scholarship). The critical essays also tend to be a bit more abstract and scholarly. But the primary source materials do an excellent job of contextualizing the work. The Case Studies line features contemporary theories applied to a given work of literature and are much more accessible. The weakness is that, outside of a university, they're not particularly easy to find.


I am also slightly troubled by the fact that this book does not spend a lot of time trying to push potential comic creators towards trying to find influences outside of comics. This is not a problem unique to David's book however.




All of my issues aside, however, David does an excellent job of combining the theoretical and practical aspects of writing in a way both tailored specifically to the comic book medium and accessible to beginners as well as useful to people with some experience.

I highly recommend this as the introductory text for anyone that is interested in writing for the sequential medium. After you finish this, move on to Alan Moore's Writing for Comics (with regular trips back to David).

This book is well worth owning. And, not just owning, reading. And I figure it will be one of the seminal comic writing books for some time
