I think Nora Roberts has a fantasy with horses and horse farms, as we've seen in her books Irish Thoroughbred, Irish Rebel and now True Betrayals which was written in 1996. Unlike the other two, True Betrayals is not pure romantic fiction but a blend of several genres. To me, it was very interesting and kept me amused and entertained for several hours.

Kelsey Byden was led to believe that her mother, Naomi Chadwick, had been dead for quite a few years and when she received a letter from her mother asking if she'd come visit her, she was an emotional wreck. It seems the real reason her mother wasn't a part of her life as she grew up was the fact that she had been in prison for killing her lover. Talk about shock value! Kelsey decides to visit her mother to try to come to terms with her emotions - Kelsey had recently divorced and just finding out her dead mother was very much alive was enough to make anyone emotionally unstable and made Kelsey question everything in her life. 

Naomi has a working horse farm in Virginia and Kelsey goes to try to make sense out of her life. Sounds like a typical plot line, right? Well, sort of, but if Nora Roberts is writing it, you can bet there are a few twists and turns along the way. Like Kelsey being thrown into a situation that could result in another murder.

Can the trainer who works for her mother be the answer to Kelsey's broken heart? Can Kelsey ever trust her mother again after being deceived by her for so many years?  Will Kelsey ever believe in herself again? I won't give away any of the plot, you'll have to read and enjoy this one for yourself!

I do have to say that the plot is not the part of the book that I enjoyed the most - sure there's a little mystery thrown in just to keep things interesting. Sure there is lots of romance and sorting of feelings toward the mother-daughter relationship. But what I enjoyed the most were the descriptions of the horse ranch, the surrounding areas, actual workings of the ranch, etc. Nora Roberts is first rate at painting a very vivid mental image and I found myself slipping off to Virginia and owning a ranch of my own in my imagination while reading this book. The lush green landscape, the openness of the working ranch, the racetrack - ah, it sounded like pure heaven.

The plot is very predictable: everyone lives happily-ever-after, mother and daughter are reunited, true love waits for Kelsey, etc., etc. What makes the story enjoyable is the mix that Roberts has perfected - not just pure romance, but a little mystery and intrigue also.
