"Betrayal in death" is the 13th book in the "In death" series, and a wonderful addition to it. This book is a perfect mix of whodunit, some romance and a futuristic cop series. But then, you probably know that, if you have read the other books in the series. If that is not the case, please do first things first, and start by the beginning, reading the series in order. Even though all the books in the "In death" series can be read independently, it is only when you read them in their correct order that you will fully enjoy the series, as you will appreciate the interrelation  between the characters and how they grow.

In this case, Lieutenant Eve Dallas has to face crime again. She finds herself as the primary in the gruesome murder of a maid that happened in one of the hotels of her husband, Roarke, just as Eve was attending a charity party there with him. Thanks to the security cameras, Eve discovers that the murderer is nobody else than Sylvester Yost, a gun for hire for the elite, that has been in the FBI's most searched list for more than 20 years. However, one thing is to know who he is, and another one is to find him. Only a very confident assassin does not mind showing his face.

As if that were not enough, soon afterwards another murder is committed by Yost, and in this case the victim is a young friend of Roarke. All seems to point out to the fact that someone ordered Yost to mess with Roarke, and ultimately who knows, maybe kill him. But why? And is Eve in danger too?.

Of course, there is much more than that in this book. An old friend of Roarke, Mick Connelly, reappears, and Eve cannot help but think he might be linked to the murders, despite Roarke's trust in Mick. Also, there is trouble in paradise for Peabody and McNabb, and more than some squabbles between Eve and some FBI's officers that are also trying to catch Yost. 

On the whole, the points mentioned above help to make this a very engaging book, for those who like a good thriller with lots of action. I would like to point out, however, that the murders in this book are specially grim, so take that into account when deciding whether to buy this book. That having been said, I recommend "Betrayal in death" to you.

Belen Alca
