This is a pretty darn interesting little book about the life of prostitutes, mainly female (some male) in Sosua, a small beach town in the Dominican Republic.

Since it is writtten by an anthropologist, a certain amount of anthropological jargon expressions like 'sexscape' and 'transnational space' creep in, but even so, for the ordinary reader this is still a very informative and at times very moving read about how these painfully poor women struggle against all odds to provide for their families.

The "it" in the title is marriage, and Ms. Brennan explains clearly that "for Sosua's sex workers, choosing to 'fall in love' with one man over another is a rational process with serious material consequences"--a realistic approach to life that we would surely all do well to adopt.

A lot of the research for the book was done several years before publication and is a bit dated. For example at the time apparently girls frequently communicated with overseas suitors via fax. These days it is all by cell phone, I think. Also, the prostitute-client relationship is described entirely in terms of mulata woman with white man, whereas in actuality many men of the African diaspora also travel from the US to Sosua to meet Dominican senoritas.

The black-and-white photographs are rather poor and add nothing.

Some of the Spanish is a little strange, for example the author refers to 'pisola' as a word for scooter. Actually the word is 'passola' a name adopted in the DR, it seems, from a model called the Yamaha Passola. 'Pisola' would be pronounced quite differently. Also I find it strange that the extremely common words 'novio' or 'novia' for boyfriend and girlfriend never occur in the text, nor does the work 'chica', though she is quite right that some ladies may refer to their regular male clients as ' mi esposo' ( my husband).

However, for anyone familiar with Sosua or with the Dominican Republic in general, this is a fascinating book about a little-regarded area of human behavior that helps one understand what is going on in Sosua, and leaves one wanting to know even more about the lives of the protagonists
