A Jules Vernes classic, this is one of those novels that has stood up well against the test of time.  True, there are some items that may seem a bit dated, and of course the whole scenario of the fantastic adventure to the depths of the earth is impossible.  Yet, this novel is still a joy to read.

With a stoic Icelander as their guide, a renowned professor and his reluctant and skeptical nephew descend into the depths of a volcano in the vast frozen tundra of the Arctic, as the adventurers attempt to retrace the steps of a renowned alchemist.  Contrary to popular belief (and scientific reality), the party descends deeper into the bowels of the earth, which is remarkably of a mild climate and not a boiling inferno.  I won't serve as spoiler, but sufficed to say, that they uncover vast new worlds and creatures living in the subterranean world hundreds of miles beneath the terrestrial crust of the earth.

Vernes does attempt to make their descent seem plausible from a scientific standpoint.  Their instruments, a crude electric light and others, would be considered state-of-the art for their time.  Vernes also goes in great detail to describe the geological formations and fossilized remains contained in the earth.  Vernes also attempts to explain how it is possible to travel so far under the surface of the earth without increased pressure harming the body.  And if you take Verne's theories to heart (although modern science refutes them), their journey is plausible.

However, I do have a couple minor gripes.  Vernes goes into great detail describing fossils and rock formations, which no doubt lend scientific credence to his novel.  Although this may interst a geologist or paleontologist, the rest of the masses (myself included) probably find this too tedious and distracting from the main story line.  Also, there is one glaring scientific discrepancy with Vernes logic. During their rapid ascent (the details I won't reveal), the adventurers would have surely perished from decompression sickness (a.k.a., "the bends").  Although it was still a new phenomena at the time, I believe Vernes should have taken into account the rapid change in pressure, as he did during their slow descent into the abyss.

The nitpicking aside, this is a superb novel that has withstood the test of time.  A modern reader will no doubt be entertained and enthralled at Verne's vision of a subterranean world.  Nearly a century and a half later, Vernes' works still inspire awe and imagination
