Into the forbidden city of Rhuidean, where Rand al'Thor, now the Dragon Reborn, must conceal his present endeavor from all about him, even Egwene and Moiraine. Into the Amyrlin's study in the White Tower, where the Amyrlin, Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan, is weaving new plans. Into Andor, where Siuan Sanche and her companions, including the false Dragon Logain, have been arrested for barn-burning. Into the luxurious hidden chamber where the Forsaken Rahvin is meeting with three of his fellows to ensure their ultimate victory over the Dragon. Into the Queen's court in Caemlyn, where Morgase is curiously in thrall to the handsome Lord Gaebril. For once the Dragon walks the land, the fires of heaven fall where they will, until all men's lives are ablaze. 

There are many masters in high fantasy. J.R.R. Tolkien would certainly be lauded highest when it comes to development of the world in which the events he illustrates transpire. Robert Jordan, for all the criticism leveled against him for what appears to be a marketing ploy - stringing the series out as long as humanly possible to generate greater book sales - would certainly have to rank near the top for character development. His series is filled with various interesting folk with varied viewpoints and motivations. While most (decent) authors go well into detail in describing the motivations and quirks of their heroes, Jordan doesn't stop there. Even his villains are thoroughly detailed. Moghidien, for example, one of the wickedest of the fallen, has a history and personality that influences how she reacts, as well as insecurities and frailties. Good, evil, benevolent or malign, all of Jordan's characters are fully fleshed out, and we get a fair view into their minds and motivations as the drama unfolds. Yes, the world is on the simple side, and yes, the plot, of late, has lost its pace; but it's a world and plot filled with only the most fascinating of folks. At a series currently juggling over 50 characters, all unveiled over the last 10 volumes, it's a commendable and laudable feat, indeed.

Fans of Jordan's epic series of many volumes of many pages have been whinging since book six that the series seems to have no end in sight. Unfortunately, it's now a race against the clock for Jordan and his publisher, whose decision to prolong the series as long as they have may result in the work never being finished. Ironically, Rand, the hero destined to die on the slopes of the Dragonmount, may outlive his creator. Full sympathies to Jordan, and I, for one, hope he holds out long enough to complete the story he began.
