This book is a collection of newspaper columns and journal entries that Friedman wrote before and after the September 11th attacks.  Friedman is very familiar with the Middle East, having been a news correspondent in Beirut and Jerusalem for ten years before becoming foreign affairs columnist for the New York Times.  Although he himself had stressed that one consequence of globalization has been the creation of super-empowered individuals with a grudge against the United States, and that bin Laden was just such an individual (The Lexus and the Olive Tree), even Friedman did not see it coming on September 11th, 2001.  This book features reprints of Friedman's columns analyzing the reasons why the September 11th attacks happened, and the reaction in the following months throughout the Islamic world.  The book also includes a short journal section, in which Friedman describes his travels in the Middle East while he was collecting material for his columns.

The events of September 11th 2001 found me and my husband in a Lebanese restaurant in the Dubai neighborhood where we had been living for four years.  The waiters were listening to the radio, and from all the cheers and excitement, we thought some Arab country was winning a World Cup soccer match against a European powerhouse.  But the waiters wouldn't look at us.  Finally one came over and with a face that alternated between embarrassment, concern, and glee, told us something big had happened in the U.S.  We went home immediately to check the news on CNN.  The following day, Western-educated Arab colleagues would give us their condolences, but not long afterwards, every one of them told us they believed the CIA and Mossad were behind the attacks, and that no Arabs were involved.  Bin Laden's face appeared on the wallpaper of my Emirati students' computers and cell phones-for them he was clearly a hero, not a demon.  In seeking to understand the events, I read the newspaper daily, and was amazed that Friedman, with a New York byline, could be so well informed about what we were seeing all around us.  While I don't agree with everything that Friedman espouses in this book, I think his analysis of the Muslim world following September 11th is about as accurate as any Western journalist could develop.

Friedman is a fierce patriot, for all the right reasons.  He lived overseas long enough to appreciate the qualities that make America great.  He reminds us that "American power and wealth flow directly from a deep spiritual source-a spirit of respect for the individual, a spirit of tolerance for differences of faith or politics, a respect for freedom of thought as the necessary foundation for all creativity, and a spirit of unity that encompasses all kinds of differences...Lord knows, ours is hardly a perfect country.  Many times we have deviated from the American spirit or applied it selfishly. But it is because we come back to this spirit more times than not, in more communities than not, that our country remains both strong and renewable." Friedman notes, "It will be a tragedy if Arabs and Muslims adopt the position that there is no conceivable reason why Americans might be upset with them today and that any criticism they face in the U.S. media is entirely the result of some Jewish campaign of vilification....Whenever a people reduces all its problems to a conspiracy by someone else, it absolves itself and its leaders of any responsibility for its predicament-and any need for self-examination...  No civilization has ever prospered with that approach...Only in a society that embraces self-criticism can the political process produce real facts to cope with real problems....The standard view of America in the Arab-Muslim world is that America is rich and powerful because it is crass and materialistic...The truth is exactly the opposite.  America is successful and wealthy because of its values, not despite them.  It is prosperous because of the way it respects freedom, individualism, and women's rights and the way it nurtures creativity and experimentation."

According to Friedman, although Arabs will point to US support for Israel as the reason behind the anger against the US, the real reasons for Arab anger come down to stagnating domestic Arab economies and hard-line autocratic governments which permit anger to be expressed only about the occupation of Palestine.  He notes how governments support hate-mongering imams, and how the Arabic media presents images of Israeli violence unceasingly on television. Thus, even those who are not drawn to religious institutions are kept perpetually angry, but their anger is safely diverted from domestic issues.  In an October, 2001 column, Friedman points out "Since September 11, the President of the United States has given several speeches about how Islam is a tolerant religion, with no core hostility to the West.  But the leader of Saudi Arabia, the keeper of the Muslim holy places, hasn't given one."  

In trying to understand the deeper message of 9/11, Friedman writes "while the world is being globalized, shrunk, and tied together ever more closely in technological terms, this has not been accompanied by a better mutual understanding between cultures, countries and civilizations. There is a mismatch.  We are technologically closer-and culturally and politically as far apart as ever, at least among certain communities."  In one of my favorite columns of the book, "Changing the Channel," Friedman presents a tongue-in-cheek analysis of why watching the Golf Channel is a lot more fun than watching the news from the Middle East.  When I returned home from the Middle East myself, my first inclination was to wall myself off from news about the region because it made me angry.  But Friedman argues this is counter-productive.  "In the long term, the only answer is to figure out ways to change the attitudes and intentions of the people on the other side of the wall, or at least narrow the gap between differing cultures and political traditions so we can share this shrinking planet." That's a challenging undertaking
