I can't deny I enjoyed this book. Well, sort of. It is very well written and its author manages to keep up the narrative flow for the best part of its 600+ pages. Having the story unfold through the prism of different characters is not an original find, but a classic narrative device that is very effectively deployed here by Elliot Perlman. Each of the sections really breathes the spirit of the narrator. The spiritual and emotional wasteland of Joe's mind, Mitch's staccato intelligence, the suave, Central-European worldview of Alex, and the immature persona of his daughter are all admirably reflected in the prose. 

But something in this book leaves me craving for more. As a reader I am always looking for ideas, for some kind of conceptual backbone, also in a novel. I have been wondering what "Seven Types of Ambiguity", despite its alluring title, has to offer on this account. What is this book really about? At times, I am tempted to think it is not much more than a messy vignette, an almost arbitrary doodle lifted out of  a fin-de-siècle notebook, revolving around a quite bland and painful mix of purposelessness and boredom. But then I find myself thinking we should perhaps dig deeper into the book's thin varnish of economic and literary critique. Capitalism and deconstructionism indeed seem to share a mentality of "anything goes", something which the protagonist of this book loathes as poisonous and immoral. Surely this provides us with a clue to unravel this quixotic plot?

However, the final chapter seems to belie this hypothesis. True, there is a victim, but apart from Dr. Klima's improbable demise, this is a truly disappointing happy end. Suddenly, the tensions that have been built up subterraneously over hundreds of pages evaporate. Simon's weltschmerz and rebellious attack on post-industrial civilisation acquiesce in return for the spoils of an academic career. Almost everything falls neatly into place. Even Joe seems happy selling cars. But then again one wonders: is Perlman pulling us by the nose by staging this kind of Hollywoodian apotheosis? 

Is this a game of double layers and "fake" endings? That's the trouble with this book: once you try to peer under its surface all perspectives start to shift and there's getting no foot on the ground. That's the deconstructionist strategy par excellence. If Perlman intended it as such, he might well be a genius of ambiguity. But if he really intended to write a serious book about "all the terrible things that have been happening to our society in the last ten or twenty years" (as he seemed to suggest in an interview) I am afraid he has been punching above his weight
