
If ever a book came along on a timely basis, this one does--an assessment that may seem a bit odd, considering that most of the material in "The Secret Histories" is several years, or even decades, old. What anthologist John S. Friedman is doing here, however, could not be more pertinent to the world now swirling around us. His subtitle is "Hidden Truths That Challenged the Past and Changed the World"--with emphasis on the word "hidden."

Friedman, a noted filmmaker, essayist and journalist, brings the premise that "official secrecy" has lamentably been close to the core of the U.S. government--and others--for the past half-century, in matters that desperately affected the life and well-being of the people. Doubtless such has been the case stretching back through the eons, but Friedman wisely limits his startling array to contemporary cases, close enough to still reverberate.

Although shocking secrets from other countries--England, the Soviet Union, Rwanda--are included in this 26-episode collection, Friedman is also wise to concentrate on the United States, for that is where most of his readers will be. He has no shortage of atrocities based at home: IBM's complicity in the Holocaust, horrific governmental medical experiments on citizens, rampant FBI violations of privacy and other rights, the cover-up of the link between smoking and cancer, the massacre at My Lai in Vietnam, Watergate, systematic purging of minorities from Florida's voting rolls, the Pentagon Papers' wholesale lies.

Most chilling, however, are the book's revelations that strike raw nerves in today's news. When zealous anti-Communist U.S. Sen. Joseph McCarthy was on his rampage in the 1950s, it was similar to recent administration charges that all those opposed to its policies are traitors. The prisoner-of-war atrocities at Abu Ghraib in Iraq are spelled out. And also with regard to Iraq, this book presents evidence that the U.S. wars in both Korea and Vietnam were launched based on false and manipulated reports--as Iraq may have been.

Friedman does not come right out and say so (and maybe he should have), but a sub-theme of the book is that our society desperately depends on bold journalism to crack the dark secrets of government--especially now, when bold journalism is Missing In Action. It is hard to say which axiom most applies: Santayana's "Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat its mistakes," or Jefferson's "The price of liberty is eternal vigilance." "The Secret Histories" are certainly vigilant, and we need to be aware of them.

Richard McCord/2005
