I have re-read this book so many times that I decided I would write a review for it, in case I might influence someone who is not familiar with this wonderful and heartwarming story. I first read it when I was in my early twenties and at that time I identified with the two younger women, Daisy and Dale. However, as I've gotten older ( currently 46) and my own children are now practically grown I find myself understanding and sympathizing much more with the character of Margaret, the mother.

This novel is all about relationships - mothers and daughters, fathers and daughters, husbands and wives and boyfriends and girlfriends. The "three women" are Margaret and her two grown daughters, Daisy and Dale. Margaret has recently been divorced from her husband of thirty years and the girls' father and has moved away from the small midwestern town where she lived to an entirely new life in Vancouver, British Columbia. Her eldest daughter, Daisy, lives in Milwaukee and is married with two children and another on the way. The youngest daughter, Dale, is single and teaches high school in a small town in Maine. As the novel opens, Daisy's marriage is on the verge of ending and she understandably feels that her world is falling apart. She reaches out to her mother and younger sister, who help to see her through this very difficult time in her life. But as the story progresses, we find that all three of these women are facing challenges and growing pains and each must work through her problems to reach a sense of peace and security.

I just can't recommend this book highly enough. It is one of my all time comfort reads, a book I can totally lose myself in because it is just such a marvelous story and such compelling reading.. Every time I finish reading it, I always feel sad to be leaving these wonderful women once again. How I wish there had been a sequel! This is just an exceptional book and Ms. Thayer is an exceptional writer. If you've never read this novel, by all means pick up a copy. You will be so glad you did! 
