Gaitskill's prose is dense with specific objects and vivid description, but it never seems like too much, like catalogues of the items in a room or rosters of encyclopedic detail.  Instead, there are objects like flowers "in the ugly pastel paper the florist would staple around then", descriptions which undercut idealizations the characters try so desperately to maintain about their lives.  Whenever they get too flighty or self-important, especially about love or romance, Gaitskill sticks in a well-chosen detail to reveal their absurdities.  When Fred says "It was like a honeymoon," Jane replies, "Oh, it was not".  

The stories are funny, often witty, and yet, and yet...sad, as the hopes and vulnerabilities of her characters thrust nakedly into the open.  Somehow, I want those characters to get something more than they have, even if they aren't nice, or are a little creepy, or do things people typically disapprove of. . 

I think the stories are funny, because they ring pathetically true. They are full of people who want, want desperately, desperately want things so badly they'll try to get them in ways that aren't in their best interests.  Those desires, I think, give the stories an energy and tension that really makes reading them interesting.  And why, when the secretary hikes up her skirt, I want to intervene, thinking "No! don't!...she's not really going to...oh, my, she's really...".  Yeah.  Horrific and strangely intriguing.

What they most want, it seems, is some sort of human connection.  I don't think the characters find it.  Lines like "this was the only kind of connection you could have with people-intense, inexplicable and ultimately incomplete", point to such a conclusion.  The fact that Susan doesn't get Leisha on the phone at the end, that Fred goes home alone forgetting his wife's present also point to this.  But the desire for intimate connection is so strong in the stories, such a deep desire for the characters, that we see what extremes they're willing to go through to get a chance at it.  That's how wanted, needed, important it is.  And how ultimately unreachable.

Gaitskill also seems to have a real knack for characterizing people quickly and vividly.  Like the stretch-pants woman, or the Korean housewife. My favorite parts are the ones when characters obsess about things like being embraced, "supported by a soft ball of puffy blue stuff".  He he.  Where the character realizes that it is "stupid or corny", but continues to wish for things like that anyway.  The tone is ironic; not every sentence is deathly serious.  Or maybe I'm disturbed that some people take such red-paper-valentine, blue-puffy-cloud stuff so completely seriously.  There's a difference between indulging a fantasy and believing that the world operates that way. 
