There are many books on the New Testament, (e.g., Ehrman's Misquoting Jesus, Galambush's The Reluctant Parting), yet each one of them has its own particular view of what constitutes the New Testament and their own focus. Some examine the gospel stories, some focus on only the canonical gospels, and some focus on Paul. Mack tries to discuss the entire picture, and this is both an advantage and a disadvantage.

Mack's book ostensibly deals with the New Testament, however, he begins with a focus on the Bible in general and stays for there quite some time. For some authors this would be problematic, but Mack is an excellent writer so we tend to go with the flow. He also has lots of interesting ideas and some very unusual interpretations of familiar material. Unfortunately he tends to present his ideas without adequate substantiating evidence or documentation, so that while his ideas are certainly worthy of consideration, they come from a theoretical rather than a hypothetico-deductive methodology which is more likely to yield fruit. This criticism isn't meant to disparage the ideas themselves, only to say that ideas with support are better than ideas alone, no matter how good the ideas may be.

Part 1 consists of 3 chapters. The thesis of Chapter 1 is that "Early Christianity was a creative, if daring, response to the multicultural challenge of the Greco-Roman age (p. 41). This chapter is among the very best descriptions you will ever find of the background forces which shaped early Christianity, and it's worth the price of the book by itself. Chapter 2 goes heavily into Q theory, and it is a core concept for Mack's approach. Chapter 3 deals with fragments from the Christ myth, which Mack sees as separable from the Q teachings.

Part 2 deals with the gospels and the epistles of Paul. Part 3 covers Acts and the other second century contributions of Marcion, Justin Martyr as well as Eusebius and Jerome. The appendix has an excellent chart of the development of and influence upon the various texts, more about Q theory, and a discussion of the pronouncement stories in Mark.

Because his approach is more theoretical than empirical, Mack leaves himself open to some internal inconsistencies. For example, Mack believes that the author of The Gospel of Luke and Acts is the same person, yet he says that "The ambiance of Jesus' teaching in Luke's gospel...contrasts markedly with the sharp edge characteristic of the sermons in Acts (p. 169)" and he recognizes a "much sharper polemic against the Jews in the sermons in Acts (p. 170)." He notes that in contrast to the Gospel of Luke, where the apostles are ordinary men, in Acts "the apostles started to look a lot like Jesus (p. 227)." Yet he is unable to take the next logical step - perhaps Luke and Acts were written by different people.

Another problem I have with this book is its reliance on Q theory. I'm not as convinced as Mack that Q exists, and his assumption of its existence without adequate proof is another example of how his theoretical emphasis weakens the full value of this book.

None of my criticisms should detract from what a marvelous book this is and how well written it is. It certainly should be read by anyone interested in the early Christianity and its historical roots. I'm not sure beginning students will get as much value from the book, but it is written in such a way that they can at least expose themselves to the ideas therein.
