Dispatch is an unusual novel for Bentley Little:  it is written in the first person and the narrator, Jason Hanford is a rather nasty character.  There are levels of evil, however, and Jason is not as bad as what he will face.

As Jason recounts, he lived in a troubled family with an alcoholic father, an uncaring mother and a deadbeat older brother.  An elementary school teacher gets him involved in a pen pal project and he starts corresponding with a Japanese girl, enchanting her with false stories of himself.  Eventually, the letters start getting sexually explicit (at least for [...] year old) and Jason gets in trouble, but he is learns that he enjoys letter writing.  By the time he is in his late teens, he is writing complaint letters to companies to get free stuff and - with false identities - creating local political controversies.  Some of his letters are particularly sinister, as he starts accusing people of crimes and eventually people die because of his writings.

Although he drops the writing eventually and gets married and has a child, his letter writing is an addiction that can only be suppressed for so long.  This will cost him deeply, but also gets him an offer from a mysterious company that promises great rewards if he just writes his letters.  Despite his gut feelings telling him to avoid the job, he takes it.

There is definitely something supernatural about this business and Jason finds himself a minor part of a very evil machine.  Unfortunately, there appears to be little escape once the job is taken.  Somewhere behind the scenes is the Ultimate Letter Writer, an enigmatic figure which is nearly omniscient and omnipotent.  Jason realizes that he is not a nice guy, but the Ultimate Letter Writer is something far darker.

This is rather typical Bentley Little fare, which is a good thing:  well-written horror with a healthy dash of satire.  It is not perfect:  as is typically the case, his stories fall apart a bit at the end.  Overall, however, this is a fast-reading good novel that should satisfy fans of the genre.
