Author Charles Colson derives the title of this book from the Jews' long-heard cry to their God during the great exile from the Promised Land. It's a fitting title for the age we`re living in, especially for the Christian who often feels alienated while pondering life in such changing times. I read this book nearly in accordance to reading the C.S. Lewis classic "Mere Christianity." Both books more or less try to explain the central tenets of Christian doctrine by setting up their relationship to the `revolutionized' worldviews now underpinning society to some sort of foundation. This book is refreshing especially in context of our own `information age,' where knowledge (and lies) can now make it across continents in a matter of seconds. In a way, Colson's book is a logical extension of Lewis's work, both using personal experience to frame the Christian faith for others. However, Colson does not have the eloquence that an Oxford professor of religion might weave into his personal defense of Christianity. Nonetheless, "How Now Shall We Live" does have the great convenience of updating the information-consuming lay reader about how Christianity establishes a rational worldview for modern day. 

Colson, as a prominent chief counsel to President Richard Nixon, spent a life-changing, seven-month prison term for his involvement with the Watergate scandal. Inside the pressing and disheartening prison walls, Colson found God through a critical examination of his own life, and when he left a free man, founded the Prison Fellowship ministry foundation. His co-author of "How Now Shall We Live," Nancy Pearcey, is currently a Francis A. Schaeffer scholar at World Journalism Institute.

Although even as a Christian I am not particularly knowledgeable about all the intricacies of apologetics, Colson's book was one of the most refreshing defenses I've read so far. Clearly accessible to the layman yet delightfully working its case with reality, "How Now Shall We Live" dismantles various nineteenth and twentieth century philosophies brick by brick while establishing Christianity as the true "city on a hill." I was somewhat surprised at the clarity of Colson's message, part of it translated to powerful anecdotes and parables, and how I responded to his thesis. While I was reading it, the book made me feel as though someone was nudging me gently while whispering, "Do you see? Do you get it now?" Nothing about it rang false, and the delicateness of the book's vast implications, not to mention their logical cohesiveness, kept dawning on me like endless surprises one after another. This is a book that paid off in spades when I finished it, so it helps if you don`t rush through it.

Colson presents a concise realization that today's culture war has everything to do with competing worldviews. On one end of the spectrum, Christianity and God's Truth, and on the other, secularism and humankind's wants. The authors present the three fundamental questions imbedded in the structure of every worldview: "Where did we come from and who are we?", "What has gone wrong with the world?", and "What can we do to fix it?" Contrary to the Publishers Weekly review, I think Colson accurately presents the worldviews currently opposing Christianity and puts the debate in a fair context. I'm sure Colson picked up a few ideas along the way from the greater Christian thinkers out there today, but that hardly hampers the message. 

Sometimes Scripture can only take you to an abrupt end of the road, and there are times when matters simply do not make sense, especially within the confines of an ever-changing world. "How Now Shall We Live" confirmed and, indeed, renewed my faith in a way that nothing really has yet before. At best, I can say it has delivered to me a new spark of life, a spark that may allow for a fresh look at the state of affairs to grow and cultivate. And thank you for that, Mr. Colson
