Before you go any further, please note that only the first "volume" of this novel is worth reading, and you can stop reading at that point without missing a thing.  Apparently, Gogol had intended to write three full volumes, but several times in the middle of writing the second volume he burned his manuscripts and by then his "genius" period had passed.  P and V's edition only has sketches of the second volume.  There are missing pages and missing chapters and unfinished sentences.  Reading the second volume was a huge let down.  The spark was entirely gone.

Having said that, the first volume was an absolute pleasure to read.  Spend time savoring the delicious descriptive flourishes of Gogol as he follows his protagonist, Chichikov, on his journey through rural Russia buying the legal rights to Russian serfs who have passed away.  You can only imagine what he's up to.  

You can almost hear Gogol chucking as he spins one short tale after another.  There is not much action in the 250 page first volume.  All the genius and all the pure reading pleasure comes in Gogol's writing style, attitude, and wry humor.  It just overwhelms you.  

I had a hard time figuring out if Gogol was trying to comment on the larger issue of the state of Russian serfdom in 1840, when he wrote this novel.  There are definitely short sections where he stands up for the dignity of these poor souls.  He definitely sees the serfs as human beings and not mere chattel.  Read the book carefully, but it seems like Gogol may have been trying to slip this theme under the radar screens of the censors who initially made Gogol revise certain portions of his book.

I have no idea how others have translated this text, but I gather that Gogol is one of the more difficult Russian authors to translate.  In this respect, P and V have done an excellent job capturing the spirit of Gogol.  P and V have also done a translation of Gogol's short stories, which is excellent.  You may want to consider buying this too.  It includes his famous short story "The Nose" among many other worthwhile works.

Savor the first volume; it goes fast.  It's a shame we will never have the second or third.

PS  If you get a chance, the Kazimir Malevich painting reporduced multiple times on the cover of the book is in the "Russia!" exhibit at the MoMA.  (The painting is supposed to represent a serf.)  It was a great show.  Go see it
