Another masterpeice by the team of writer Garth Ennis(an Iraish crazed, yet genious writer)and artist Steve Dillon(Ennis's partner in crime, also a little insane, in a good way). These two have put together yet another blood filled, violent, bizzare, and funny masterpeice. The third installment to the 9 volume Preacher series, that follows Jesse Custer, a former preacher who have lost his faith, Tulip, Jesse's gun-wielding girlfriend, and Cassidy, an Irish vampire, on their journey to find God, literally.

This book begins with a flashback talking about Jesse's father John, and his navy days in the Vientam War. Then, the ending to the story arc started in Volume 2, the Grail. We follow Jesses, who have abandoned Tulip for her own safety, on his trip to France to save his buddy, Cassidy. He also meets the Allfather who is the boss of the Grail and can be described as a fat, murderous, digusting pig, another bizzare character created by Mr. Ennis, and also an appearance by the Saint of Killers. Then, the origin to the Irish vampire, Cassidy, telling us of how he became a vampire in the first place, and his early days in America. This series have material on its pages no other comic from any of the major comic companies would dare print, strap-ons, gay sex, extreme violence, profanity, and pure fun. This book is just another emample of the genious of Ennis and Dillon, a great read and a lot of fun doing it.

The art by Dillon was stunning as usual, depicting the graphic violence that not much other artists would dream of drawing. His work is beautiful and complements Ennis's superb writing very well, they make a great team.

This is a must-have if you're a mature reader who likes to disturb and shock oneself. I read this book in one sitting, all 231 pages of it. This is probably best appreciated if you read the last 2 volumes, but not totally nessesary. Don't even think about getting this book if you can be offended by graphic violence, nudity and sexual themes, and profanity. But if you're not, then do yourself a favor and get yourself a copy now, it's worth every penny
