Most of us have loved and lost.  An unfortunate number of us have had our hearts broken so brutally it leaves a mess of our lives.  The worst is when the person who hurt you still has an intense hold on your mind and even after all the hell they put you through, if he/she calls you come running back again.  

That's the scenario for our man Dwight who works as a photographer snappin' pics of philandering husbands.  He used to be a prominent photographer, but he apparently went on a rampage of boozing and whoring in the Basin City red light district of Old Town so intense that it tore his career to shreds.  Now he does what he can to make ends meet doing work that he hates and trying hard to hold in an intense mean streak he refers to as "the monster".

Suddenly he gets a call from an exgirlfriend named Ava.  She wants to see him.  Like an idiot he heads out the door with a shave he doesn't need and arrives 20 minutes early.  Dwight is intent on telling her that it's over between them and there's no turning back.  His plan falls apart when Ava tells him she's afraid for her life.  As much as Dwight hates this woman for what she's done to him, he still loves her enough to know that despite what she's done, she doesn't deserve to die.  Some people have said that Dwight's actions are caused by thinking with his "little head" instead of his big one.  I think it has more to do with Ava taking advantage of his sense of compassion.  In his mind, sure Ava is evil and deserves to have her whole world torn apart, but does she deserve to die?  Earlier that night before they met Dwight had stopped a man from killing his illicit lover, so unfortunately Dwight is in "Lancelot" mode right now.

This book does a superb job of showing that the lasting effects of lingering love can drive us to do just about anything.  Not only is it yet another fine example of comic-noir from the mighty Frank Miller, but it's also a cautionary tale for lovers concerning the consequences of letting someone who hurt you back into your life.  

One day, I heard a Gordon Lightfoot song that pretty much describes Dwight's situation with Ava:

"I can picture every move that a man could make
Getting lost in her lovin' is your first mistake
Sundown ya better take care
If I find you been creepin' 'round my back stairs
Sometimes I think it's a sin
When I feel like I'm winnin' when I'm losin again..."

Lovers, take it from your buddy Frank Miller, beware of the evil ex who comes back around
