According to Jeff Faux, erstwhile president of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington DC, with the enfeebled nation-state and the absence of world government, the 2,000 plus people who manage and own the worlds largest multinational corporations meet every year at the World Economic Forum in Davos Switzerland to set the agenda for the global economy.  Even though the event includes political leaders, academics, journalists, and an occasional movie star, they are mere window dressing accompanying the real movers and shakers.  This elite is what Faux calls the "Party of Davos."  There is no countervailing party other than the World Social Forum which celebrates the likes of Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro, but they are of no consequence in the real order of things.

The Party of Davos is primarily the party of international global investors, who do their best to promote globalization and free trade. Elites around the world have bought into it, including the leadership of both the Democratic and Rebublican parties in the US, with the expectation that globalization would raise all economic boats, or so they would have us believe.  However, this has not happened.

Faux correctly points out that prior to the age of globalization the US economy was more or less self-contained, and capital and labor were forced to deal with each other, thereby creating a social contract from which all parties benefited.  What was once good for GM was also good for America; now it is only good for GM.  (This may not be a good example since even the global investor is not happy with GM.)  The point being that GM can now find cheaper labor and lower environmental standards in other countries.

Faux argues persuasively that globalization went astray with the Nafta agreement, which was supposed to protect workers and the environment in the US, Mexico, and Canada.  Instead, thanks to the Clinton administration, multinational corporations were given a free hand in overriding those very protections.  It's almost as if Ross Perot's "giant sucking sound" pulling high-wage jobs out of the US has been realized.  Moreover, ten years and a WTO  later, that giant sucking sound is pulling those jobs out of the entire Nafta block and ending up in China and India.  The result is that workers' wages and middle-class living standards from all three Nafta countries have declined under "free trade".

Again Faux reminds us that rich countries have poor people and poor countries have rich people.  The rich or the investor class in all countries have prospered whereas the middle-class and the poor have seen their fortunes decline.

To compound this problem, the US trade deficit was $726 billion last year and there is no evidence that it will decline in the future.  Our manufacturing base is being hollowed out and the so-called knowledge economy is being outsourced.  The primary job creation since the year 2000 has been in healthcare, government, finace, and the low-wage service sector.  If this trend continues, it will become impossible to export our way out of this deficit, unless there is a significant devaluation of the dollar, which will inevitably lower our standard of living.  This is going to happen no matter what policy is adopted in the near future, it is only a question of how much of a less prosperous future we will have.

Pat Buchanan in a recent article entitled "Our Hollow Prosperity"  makes the same argument as Faux and indeed cites statistics from the Economic Policy Institute.  Buchanan does not couch the argument in terms of class struggle (my main quibble with Faux's thesis), but he does believe when corporations are given the oppurtunity to find cheaper labor abroad they will do so and that  the current free trade policy is undermining our prosperity.  With the left and the right finding common cause against the corporate and political elite, there should be a significant political realignment when the next economic downturn hits.

What does Faux recommend?  He is calling for a new global - or at least a regional, Nafta-wide - social contract.  It looks something like managed trade.  Let's face it, the economies that are running a surplus with us are practising managed trade.  We should start bargaining for greater access to their markets and place a higher bar of entry to ours.  Faux is not advocating protectionism, just smart policy instead of none at all.

We can now see the trajectory of globalization:  Thomas Friedman proclaimed that it created a global and level playing field in the job market for workers heretofore excluded; Clyde Prestowitz proclaimed that the playing field was tilted against the industrialized world because our high wage requirements put us at a disadvantage; now Jeff Faux is saying that all workers are being sold short and that it's time to create a global social contract.  Who says there is no such thing as progress
