I'm no expert on 18th-century English literature, or on the famous work I'm being so daring as to review. I did, however, read every line of it, and I can say, I liked it. 

I started reading this work---oft cited as the greatest biography in the English language, and surely the one where the subject was most un-objectively represented by his fawning chronicler---when I was a sixteen-year-old sophomore in an honors seminar. I finished it literally today, some eleven years and perhaps twenty-two starts and stops later.  

What remains most strongly in memory, above the man about whom this was penned, is the era itself, which was captured in full dimension here by a scribe whose entire being seemed concentrated upon  gulping down those scraps of notice sent his way by the movers and shakers, the "A-listers," of his century. 

As a straightforward biography, this work is oddly paced, anything but impartial, and since it concentrates most of its scope on a relatively brief period in Johnson's life and career, curiously uneven. This is not unusual in biographies, of course, which tend to select moments that most closely define the subject's celebrity, but the pacing in the coverage does stick out at me. It also surprised me to find out that Boswell was around the great Johnson about a year's time, and the rest of his work, in all its ever-excusing hero-worshipping, anecdote-dribbling glory, is the result of his being privy to gossip, to making use of the facts known about Johnson, and by his, frankly, inventing whole sections in a kind of "non-fiction-fiction." 

What forgives all that (if forgiveness is needed) is the thing I mentioned above; namely, no other writer from any era does quite so complete a job of making a person centuries in the future feel THERE for the scenes he's describing. To have wrung as much as he did from Johnson, the greatest "talker" of his time, shows that Boswell had the reporter's gift for conversation as a means of LISTENING. And all that is why this is the 18th century's finest life story, and also why I came to like this book so much in the years between when it was assigned to me, and when I finally finished it as a pleasure read in the year 2006
