This book sustains the punchy style of its opening sentence: "The scandal of the evangelical mind is that there is not much of an evangelical mind." That directness makes it consistently engaging to read and forceful in argument. On the whole it is a striking and lucid explanation of issues that have bothered this 56-year-old Christian for most of the thirty years since his conversion: the tendencies in evangelicalism and pentecostalism to be satisfied by lightweight thinking or to be overtly or covertly anti-intellectual. Noll's arguments are focused on North America; and he does acknowledge that the situation in Europe can be somewhat different. However, the tendency for American cultural hegemony to filter into the church worldwide gives his main points a universal relevance.

While a majority of reviewers on Amazon, elsewhere on the Internet, and in published journals and papers have praised this book, it is only fair to point out that there has been a number of negative responses; and that, if you take into account the objector's starting point (something that Noll himself does very effectively in the earlier chapters of the book), some of those responses cannot be shrugged off as obscurantist or anti-intellectual. For example, some critics might have been disarmed if the entirely sound point that modern, young-earth creationism is indeed modern, had been bolstered by showing exactly how it differs from the views of important scholars from earlier centuries, such as Archbishop James Ussher (1581-1656), who developed the Biblical chronology that is still accepted in some fundamentalist quarters.

However, the vast majority of negative responses have come from those who hold a fixed position on matters over which Christians have always disagreed; and that fixity makes the objector latch onto the words under their noses rather than hold onto the broad perspective that is this book's starting point and its purpose. For example, one learns far more about the critic than about the book when the objection rests on an unstated assertion that five-point Calvinism has a monopoly on truth, or on a belief that the theological strength of dispensationalism and "plain reading" of scripture exclude any other position on the relationship between the Bible and human history.

And there's the nub of the matter. This is not a theological treatise. It is written by a distinguished academic historian who is himself an evangelical; and its historical perspective searches for the origins of a problem that, even by some of Noll's sternest critics, has been acknowledged to exist. The problem is that evangelicalism has marginalised what Noll calls "the life of the mind", a life that earlier generations, epitomised by Jonathan Edwards (1703-58) and some other great American thinkers of the eighteenth century, took for granted because of its historical pedigree and, above all, because Jesus said that we are to "love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind." (Matthew 22:37) Noll finds the roots of this decay in multiple places, including the post-Enlightenment corruption of puritan thought, in the irresistible tendency of pentecostalism to privilege personal experience over disciplined thinking, and in the growth of populist movements that were by no means confined to christianity. He seeks to find causes, to trace why, over the last 200 years, the USA has led the way in making evangelicalism and anti-intellectualism walk hand-in-hand. And on the way he offers plenty of food for thought to those who, like this reviewer, have an instinctive sympathy with the very movements that he identifies. He does this efficiently, sympathetically and, on the whole, with a strong sense of what is central and what is peripheral -- something that most of his critics are not so good at.

Those distinctions are especially valuable when the author, in the final chapters, discusses the relationships between culture and belief. He says (p. 243) that ". . . historical study or travel throughout North America and the rest of the world should help evangelicals realize that much of what is distinctive about American evangelicalism is not essential to Christianity." Ah! that little word "should"! Noll shows little optimism that it will bring about a change in evangelical culture at large; but he does find evidence of fresh thinking among that small number of American evangelicals who try and cultivate a true life of the mind, as distinct from the easy assertions of popular evangelicalism. He also  sees a welcome move away from those "habits of intuition" that keep evangelicals bogged down in discussions about peripherals, and that can boast of success only in promoting division in the church.

So this is a positive book. It is a study in history, not in theology; though it makes theological points along the way. It is a good read; and it is a striking demonstration of how things have changed since 1753, when Jonathan Edwards was appointed principal of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) precisely because he had the finest evangelical mind around. It will be most appreciated by those who are capable of taking off their "doctrine-spotting" hat -- and this reviewer had to pull hard
