It's about time someone wrote a book with the openness and honesty of Dave Burchett. Having been on the receiving end of &quot;bad Christians&quot; and, honestly, having been a &quot;bad Christian&quot; at times myself, I certainly related to this book. Though Burchett has been criticized for being sarcastic and acerbic in his writing, I find his hard-hitting style refreshing for a &quot;Christian&quot; book and quite humorous as well. His heart-breaking story of the rejection of his ill daughter by the church is shocking. Sadly, an incident like this would easily happen in my church. When the organization that is supposed to unconditionally love you and support you fails, the hurt is profound. Burchett justifiably argues that the church, because of &quot;bad Christians&quot;, is becoming impotent in the world today. His comments on the diversions that cause division in the church and cause the unchurched to see Christians as hypocritical and often hateful are eye-opening. I especially appreciated his admonition to be careful of being involved in diversions at the expense of serving others and reaching the unchurched. His views on the hot-button cultural issues are real, practical, and yes, biblical. I loved how Burchett moved beyond the overused WWJD to WJSHTOT - &quot;Would Jesus spend His time on that?&quot; If you are an unbeliever because &quot;Christians&quot; are a bad example of a loving, caring Jesus, you need to read this book. If you are a believer and have been hurt by your &quot;own&quot;, you need to read this book too. If you are not willing to look in the mirror and change your own &quot;bad Christian&quot; traits, and if you can't laugh at the ridiculousness of some of the current &quot;Christian&quot; outlook, you will be offended by Burchetts remarks. This book is not for dyed-in-the-wool legalistic fundamentalists. Well, actually it is, but it's doubtful if they would pass the mirror test he describes in the book. If you want to change your mundane Christian existence and really spend your time like Jesus would, and if you sincerely desire to leave your comfort zone to fulfill the Savior's Great Commission, put on your lead-toed shoes, prop up your feet, and give Dave Burchett a chance to challenge you to become all Jesus intends His church to be
