As The Dangerous Hour opens, Sharon McCone is filled with joy over the economic and professional success of McCone Investigations . . . and overflowing with anxiety about Hy Ripinsky's marriage proposal.  Almost instantly the joy of success is replaced with fear of loss as one of her new employees is hauled away for credit card fraud against a recent client. Under California licensing rules, McCone can lose her business due to an employee's malfeasance.  While expensive lawyers right to gain her time and breathing space, McCone leads her entire firm and related friends, neighbors and snitches to find out what's really going on.  At the same time, she has to keep the wolf from the door so client work continues as well.  In the process, all of the usual characters make at least cameo appearances.

One of the challenges that Marcia Muller faces in each Sharon McCone mystery is how to employ all of the interesting and memorable characters that she has developed through more than 20 novels.  That challenge usually determines how well the book turns out.  In The Dangerous Hour, Ms. Muller gives into the temptation to deploy all of her characters . . . and to add a few more interesting ones.  Unless she wants to write War and Peace, this means that some characters appear by name but don't really appear as characters.  That makes the story seem bloated and dull in places.  But considering how many characters are crammed into this book, it's a remarkable achievement to have this only be a minor problem that caused me to nick my rating by one star.

McCone is really a loner who likes people . . . but doesn't feel comfortable getting close to them.  I credit Ms. Muller with great skill in being able to populate the McCone books with so many characters who could plausibly want to be connected to McCone.  Ms. Muller has a great instinct for capturing human motivations, weaknesses and strengths . . . and connecting them to their natural environments and human connections.  In The Dangerous Hour she does this very deftly in a number of places so that the new characters seem more vivid than the old ones do.  

As the McCone universe expands, it becomes more realistic and the stories resonate better.  I look forward to even more complicated plots with even more characters in the future.  Ms. Muller's skill is developing nicely.  I hope she remembers to leave out characters that she cannot involve sufficiently to make them relevant to the story and our interest in those characters.

On the other hand, Ms. Muller wisely chose to have McCone deal with the investigation in as much of a one-woman style as possible . . . bringing back the tension and immediacy of the earliest books in the series.  Very nice! 



