 I fell into the trap like everyone after watching Oprah last October 1999.  I ordered the book, joined the online clubs and started the diet, after the book came. 
 It really didnt seem like a diet, meat, veggies and reward dessert....   my favorite was MS Smiths Apple Pie.  I had this every night for two weeks, then it became funny because after I wasnt deprived of it, I really didnt want it.   I really thought it was a small joke, eat meat, eggs, and cheese, lose weight.  But after I read the book it really made sense.  Food is food, not a medication we can use to make things better, and after being on this diet for around 4-5 days, I got rid of the carb blur.  I saw just that. 

 I was really addicted to sugar and bread.  It was like a roller coaster that would intice me to ride all day long.  I would wake up and not be hungry, but eat, because we are supposed to right?  Al night long our body has starved and its got to have fuel.  I, like most people in this country really believed that.  Didnt think for a minute that the cereal industry sort of got that one over on us. But once I started the food going in, the wrong food, it would keep me craving more all day.  I wasnt hungry and I would eat.  
 But once I stopped the carbs, I could see things clearly.  I wasnt hungry.  I didnt have to eat a Toaster Struddle or a bowl of cereal.  I did have the dark colors under my arms, and I worried about that.  But after I was on this diet for a couple of months, they went away, and so did a lot of weight.  I lost over 50 lbs in about 6 months.  It stayed off for around 1 1/2 years.  I had to have hip replacement surgery, and I got way off my carbless ways.  I, then, didnt think eating a Snickers was a big deal, and POW   I gained the weight back in about 9 months.

This book, if used the right way  (I know a lot of people that think just buying diet stuff or exercise gear, will work, you have to use it) But if you do follow this diet, it will work. and very fast, and your tummy will be the first thing that goes away.  I lost 50 lbs with no exercise, I couldnt exercise, due to my hip being so bad off.  I went from 200 lbs to 150.  I started the diet on October 17, 1999,  my birthday, and at Christmas that same year, only around two months later, my mean old mother-in-law even noticed all the weight I had dropped.  It was like I was a different person all together.  I smiled, I looked into mirrors when I walked by, I liked myself. I bought new clothes and loved the way i wore them.  A different life for me.  I know people say they are happy while being fat.  I was not.  I looked at the mirror and was fat.  
 When I started the carb diet, I learned that food is just that, its food.  Yes we all get together for dinners and other things revolving around food, but its the friendship, not the food.  My brother, and his wife, both bought the book after they saw me over Christmas and they followed the diet too.  They both lost weight.  A lot of weight even.  My best friend bought the book when she saw how fast I was losing weight, and she didnt read it, and didnt lose any weight at all.  But she would try to eat McDonalds sausage biscuits without the biscuit, and drink diet Mountian Dew.  it wasnt what the book asked for, and it didnt work.  

I guess what my thoughts are, and what I truly feel, is here it is 2005, I am 200 lbs again, not happy with myself, no energy, no happiness in me, just existing. But I know what to do, and since I was there, at 150 and happy, I know when I get back there it isnt something to throw away.  So,I am now ordering this book again, to help me get back to what I felt before.  To help me feel less fat, and give me more energy.  The energy and the happiness is definately something the sugar and bread take from me.  I have no drive and no will power, and sneak to eat and cant do without my chocolate fixes once a month.  I know when I do this diet, and I follow it right, that all goes away and I can think of other things besides FOOD.  Because really, its only a Snickers bar.  Its not THAT important in the long life I can look forward to without CARBS.   Read the book and you will understand so much about why and how we eat and what you can do to make food work for you
