First of all, I'm not a birder.  I have no lifelist, no checklists, and I couldn't tell apart sparrows if my life depended on it.  And birders are weird.  I remember hiking around a forest preserve near Chicago listening to 2 bird nuts arguing about what kind of LBJ's (little brown jobbies) they were looking at.  If I would have had a gun, I would have ended their arguments rather quickly by shooting both birders and leaving the birds alone.

However, I do enjoy nature, I enjoy a well-written adventure story, and I enjoy reading humorous accounts of the lengths people will go to indulge in a passion.  This book succeeds in all these ways.

A journalist, Mark Obmascik, details the adventures of 3 birding fanatics as they try to set a record for the North American "Big Year" - that is, seeing as many species as possible in a calendar year in the US.  

Sandy Komito, the previous record holder, is the best organized and has the resources to go anywhere at a moment's notice.  Greg Miller is the everyman who squeezes birding trips in between his work schedule, borrowing money from his parents when his credit cards get maxed out.  Retiree Al Levantin also has the resources to go anywhere, anytime but isn't as obsessed as the other two.  The drama of watching the competition is absorbing, and you will probably end up rooting for one of the three, just like you root for a beloved sports team.

The book really isn't a natural history book, although the stories of where the birds are can be educational.  The three travel from the furthest Aleutian Island to Key West and everywhere in between on their quest.  But what a wonderful account of 3 guys having the time of their lives pursuing something they love.  Almost made me want to try for a Big Year of my own.  Everyone should have such a quest at least once in their lives.

And regarding nature, this book made me finally drive the 30 miles to the Bear River Bird Refuge here in Northern Utah and watch in awe as Blue Heron's took flight, curlews foraged in the shallow waters, Bald Eagles perched in branches and I walked through a giant, cacophonous flock of yellow-headed blackbirds.

A wonderful, simple, pleasurable read. 
