With the events of September 11th still so vivid in my mind, I didn't think about reading the synopsis on the back book cover of Loyalty in Death by J.D. Robb. To be honest, if I had read the back, I probably would not have read this book right now and waited a few weeks to continue my journey through the In Death series. It was tough to read this one when the wounds from September 11th were still so raw but I did enjoy the story even if some of the similarities were a bit creepy! 

The In Death futuristic series continues with several excellent subplots surrounding and interweaving into a suspenseful main plot. A terrorist group, Cassandra, an offshoot of a former previously disbanded anti-government group, has targeted New York historical landmarks to bomb unless their demands are met. Cassandra tips off homicide detective, Eve Dallas, and makes a sick game out of these acts of terrorism - who will win and at what cost? 

The first building blown up just happens to be one owned by Eve's multi-billionaire husband, Roarke, and so the game becomes personal. It's a race against the clock to find the planted bombs, stop death and destruction, while trying to figure out the identities of the villains. 

Now if the main plot wasn't enough to keep the reader amused and entertained, Robb (AKA Nora Roberts) has given us a couple of subplots that are fantastic. In the last two books in the In Death series, two of Eve's assistants have been flirting and skirting a romantic liaison. I've read each one wondering just when the flamboyant Ian McNabb, EDD detective (Electronic Device Division), and the "everything by the book" Officer Delia Peabody (Eve's right hand woman) would get together. Well this is the book that begins the relationship - and hot doesn't even begin to describe it. Who doesn't smile when they go at each other in an elevator that just happens to be stopped between floors (hey, McNabb can program anything!). But it's not enough to get each other out of their systems, so they then continue the interlude in his apartment. Ah yes, the anticipated fireworks will not leave the reader disappointed, and J.D. Robb hints that it's only a taste of what the future holds. And I absolutely love it when McNabb calls her "She-body" and she jumps down his throat - ah yes, it's true love! 

We are also introduced to one of Peabody's Free-age family members when her brother Zeke comes to New York City on a working vacation from Arizona. Zeke is the baby brother and Peabody is the protective big sister, but she can't keep him from being drawn into a murder investigation as the prime suspect. Given the fact that when the murder occurred, she was a little busy with McNabb, she feels plenty of guilt about the entire situation. Yes, this is a very interesting side journey. 

Overall the book is very good, even if the villain behind Cassandra is predictable. It once again showcases J.D. Robb/Nora Roberts' ability to weave a tale of mystery, develop characters that audiences love, and even throw in a bit of humor. Her all around talent is remarkable and this series proves it!
