I really love this book and ought to give it five stars, but I really can't, because it's just all wrong. Even so, it's a great, great book--there simply is no more engaging book of analytic philosophy. 

Kripke's error is basically one that is symptomatic of all modern analytic philosophy...overattachment to modal considerations, trying get it to do the work that only Bayesian analysis can do properly. Bertrand Russell said it best--"There is only one world, the 'real' world." Philosophers should have listened. The meaning of (even non-literal) utterances reduces to the transmission of information, and everything you ever wanted to know about transmission of information can be found in conditional probabilities. The space you're forced to deal with is the space of ways the world might *be* (for all I or you know), not ways the world "might have been." 

A misreading of Wittgenstein (Kripke later based an entire book on a misreading of Wittgenstein) is representative: Kripke says that Wittgenstein was wrong to say that you can't say (just W's way of saying that it's non-informative to say) the standard meter stick in Paris is a meter long. According to Kripke, it's not only informative, but "contingent." (There are contingent a priori statements, according to Kripke, which everyone knew to be obvious nonsense before he came along and messed with their heads with a few carefully disguised modal equivocations.) It's *not* informative, obviously. If we accept the romantic story about the standard meter stick, and Kripke does, then all it means to be a meter long is to be the same length as the standard meter stick. There aren't any "other worlds" where the stick's a different length. Anyway even if there were other worlds, the stick wouldn't be there. It's here. (Well, it's in Paris.)

Modal considerations can paint some awfully pretty pictures, and I think Kripke got lost in the abstraction. Anyway you have to read this book one way or the other...hopefully you won't get lost, too. Unfortunately I'm not betting on it; Kripke is dangerously persuasive
