I will strongly disagree with one viewer. This book is not false advertising. Nor its title which is 'The Halliburton Agenda : The Politics of Oil and Money' All, 290 (237 + extensive notes) pages are about Halliburton and KBR written in a professional, non-political and authoritative style. There is no hit-man work here, on the contrary it is highest grade journalism.

There is Cheney on the cover and the book is more about Lyndon Johnson but that does not mean readers are cheated. Briody masterfully shows how Brown & Root employs politicans and uses them to their advantage. Johnson was one pet politican (first supported Texas Congressman, than Senator with Brown & Root's massive help) who finally became President despite Herman Brown's fear that he would serve less to Brown & Root but would have to embrace populist policies during the race for presidency. Cheney was (and probably still is) another one. Here is what you will find on page 197 :

"The story about how Dick Cheney came to be Halliburton's CEO goes like this: During a fishing trip at the Miramichi River in New Brunswick with a group of high-powered corporate CEOs, the men were discussing the ongoing search for a CEO at Halliburton. Cheney was asleep back at the lodge and, in his absence, the men decided that Cheney would be the man for the job, despite the fact that he had never worked in the oil business"

If you think the above story is a fabrication, consider the fact that Cheney with no private sector experience suddenly became the CEO of a large conglomerate. In the world I live in, no unexperienced people are made senior managers, let alone CEOs unless there is a very very special, lucrative purpose behind. So, there is a lot of logic to put Cheney on the cover. You will learn some interesting stuff about Cheney and his connections with Halliburton (having already merged with Kellogg, Brown & Root) before and after his vice-presidency too.

I personally believe Briody is doing a great service to American public. Read this book and see whether murky political connections and wars provide essential revenue to certain companies who do not do well otherwise.

Is the book perfect ? Almost, but not. There are minor missing points according to me. The merger/acquisition between Halliburton and KBR and also the asbestos related bankruptcies should be explained slightly more in detail.

Three other things to mention.
1. The publisher of this book is the prestigious Wiley publishers.
2. Read President Eisenhower's farewell speech. It can be easily found on the net. There you will see that the subject of this book is no nonsense.
3. Halliburton was not a dishonest, politically-connected company when founded. Indeed it belonged to a hard working-honest guy who left home to realize his American dream. Both Halliburton and Brown & Root's histories are explained in detail and it is quite a pleasure to read
