Let me begin with saying that even though I found many flaws in this work it is easily one of the most brilliant works I have ever read. I read this book with growing amazement and admiration with each passing chapter. In fact I believe this book is worth reading even if as an interpretation of Nietzche it is unetnable, which I believe is partially the case. This book is an absolute marvel of lucid philosophic exposition, and the ideas it presents are fascinating and developed with a subtelty and intelligence that is amazing. For me it was a life-changing book.

As an interpretation of Nietsche I think it is only a very partial success. It's picture of Nietsche strikes me as extremely flawed. To take a random example: Nietszches attitude of macho, juvenile contempt for women has a very real and obvious relation to the rest of his philosophy, and indeed is a natural outgrowth of a particular strain in his philosophy. Surely Kaufmann is unconvincing and guilty of lack of philosophic insight when he merely dismisses Nietsches contempt for women as a regrettable abberation bearing no serious relation to his philosophy as a whole or his personality, as if this attitude appeared out of nowhere! The fact is there is a very virulent straing of extreme macho posturing in Nietzches philosophy, and only by virtually ignoring this as Kaufmann has done can Nietzches contempt for women appear as an abberation. In my opinion Kaufman does an altogether unsatisfactory job in integrating this aspect of Nietsches thought in his picture of Nietsche - yet this aspect of Nietsches thought appears in very striking and powerfully emotional ways in all of Nietsches works. It is in this way that Kaufmann seems most deficient in his analysis of Nietsches thought. 

Presumably Kaufmann did not wish to underline this aspect of Nietsches thought since at the time he wrote the popular misconception of Nietsche emphasized this aspect of his philosphy to the exclusion of all else - indeed it failed even to SEE anything else. Kaufmann wanted to present aspects of Nietsche that were up till then ignored. But if so, then why offer the book as a comprehensive evaluation? Any comprehensive evaluation must come to grips with this dark side of Nietsches thought in a far more successfull manner than Kaufmann has. And further, to gain credibility for Kaufmann's sympathetic image of Nietsche, wouldn't it be better to honestly own up to the dark side of Nietsches thought, which is so glaringly obvious, and then explain how this is not the whole picture by any means? The book actually loses credibility for its portrait of Nietszche because I believe most readers who have read Nietszche leave Kaufmanns book with a vague sense that in some important, crucial way he does not quite describe the Nietzche they have encountered.

In any event, this is a fanstastic work nonetheless. I urge everyone to read it.



