Dean Koontz writes a tale of deeply penetrating detailed intrigue ... mind-blowing experiences and events occur to various characters in the book which are tied together so intricately that the book is spell-binding from start to finish.

Martie Rhodes has accompanied her good friend, Susan Jagger to the psychiatrist's office for over a year. Susan has had recurring nightmares about her ex-husband entering her apartment at night and doing inexplicable things. Her psychiatrist, Dr. Mark Ahriman is a famous author of top selling 'self-help' books along being published in peer-reviewed journals for research in his field of expertise. His kind considerate manner balanced well with his superb credentials and unsurpassed reputation. Lately, Martie has begun experiencing unsual mental stress symptoms herself. She couldn't look herself in the mirror without thinking of harming herself and began experiencing intense fear when she handled sharp objects ... part of her knew this behavior was abnormal yet she couldn't stop the thoughts from arising at times. She was considering visiting Dr. Arhiman herself to help control this new onset of chaotic thinking ...

Her husband, Dusty, a painting contractor had just saved Skeet, his brother, from jumping off a roof and killing himself. Skeet had a background of psychological problems from his youth. He had been a "babe magnet", a handsome young man but his negligent eating habits made him look like a gaunt shadow of himself... Dusty had him admitted to a local psych facility ... where it turned out Dr. Mark Ahriman was a silent partner. In the facility, Dusty was exploring his brother's problems and was looking through his belongings. He came upon a phrase in a book which he read outloud and discovered ... put his brother in a trance. Essentially his brother followed his commands and answered questions in a distant voice with no recall of the event after he fell asleep ...

Susan Jagger sets a trap to prove once and for all whether Eric her exhusband is paying her visits at night while she is asleep ... She shares none of the details of these nightmarish events with Martie ... As Martie and Dusty settle down for the night they discuss the days events, with many of its peculiar aspects. Susan tries calling Martie who does not pick up the phone. When Martie does not hear from Susan for over 24 hours, she becomes suspicious and goes to her apartment. Susan is discovered dead - an apparent suicide. But was it? Dr. Mark Ahriman reassured Martie that Susan was doing splendidly and improving ... He felt she was near a breakthrough and could likely be cured? What happened to Susan to make her kill her self?

The answers to these questions are explained in a twisted tale of intrigue and mystery. Dean Koontz uses normal events and unusual ideas and concepts based on scientific research which is exaggerated in his imagination to build a suspenseful murder mystery with complex underpinnings of winding labyrinthine paths. Reading this book is a thrilling roller coaster ride ... There are many ups, downs and hair-pin turns at the most unexpected moments. This is another exciting book by a master author who is tops in his field ... Read and enjoy. Erika Borsos (pepper flower)

