SANCTUARY is a story about Jo Ellen Hathaway, a New York photographer. Jo Ellen had grown up off of the Georgia coast in a resort called Sanctuary (actually they call it a resort, but it's more of a Bed and Breakfast Victorian style house and there are campgrounds around the island - not a true resort, but it does sound wonderful). Jo Ellen's memories of Sanctuary were not happy ones after her mother disappeared when she was a child, 20 years previously. 

Jo Ellen starts receiving pictures of herself in the mail and realizes she's being stalked. Then she has a nervous breakdown when she's sent one of her beautiful mother, lying naked and dead. That shocks her and sends her back to her family and Sanctuary.

Has that synopsis intrigued you enough to want to read this book? Ok, let me help captivate you some more with my story of reading this book: 

I took this hardback with me on vacation when it first came out. What a huge mistake! My vacation wasn't restful and relaxed until I finished this story! SANCTUARY refused to let me put it down and would call my name until I picked it up and began reading again. As I was sitting on the beach supervising my daughters build the world's best sandcastle; I could hear that book in my bag. As we were getting ready for bed in preparation for a full day of adventure the next day, SANCTUARY would call out to me. Ok, so maybe the book didn't speak, but the story sure did - I was so engrossed with the tale that I couldn't put it down. I'd stay up late at night reading "just one more chapter". 

I was at that resort with Jo Ellen while she was trying to mend the family relationships with her siblings, Lexy and Brian, and as she tried to break through the wall her father had erected around himself after his wife had disappeared. I felt like I was there when she met Nathan Delaney, whose family had stayed on the island the summer of her mother's disappearance. I had goose bumps when the eerie pictures arrived in the mail and the stalker followed Jo Ellen back to Sanctuary. 

SANCTUARY has to be one of Nora Roberts's best books. It grabs the reader from the beginning and doesn't let go. Roberts draws the reader so far into the story that you are breathing hard as Jo Ellen is racing through the trees to find the stalker. You don't' feel safe until you know what happened to Jo Ellen's mother (did she just abandon her family as was the speculation or something worse). You absolutely must know the identity of the person behind sending those awful pictures.

I've always felt that Roberts is a master manipulator who draws the reader into the lives of her characters, but she has out done herself with this one. She has made it an interaction between the story line and the reader, one the reader won't soon forget!

One word to describe SANCTUARY: EXCELLENT.
