The Yankee Apocalypse of 2004 
Boston-New York rivalry will never be the same
 
The point of the Yankees-Red Sox rivalry is that the Yankees always won in the end. That's what made the rivalry so great to a Yankee fan. At least to me anyway. It was always exciting for a Boston fan because they hoped that every year maybe, just maybe, it could be "the year" for Red Sox Nation. And with every regular season victory in their favor, that hope increased. But the Sox never beat us when it counted. Sure, even us Yankee fans had our doubts about our Bombers from time to time if we lost to the Red Sox. Of course we'd like to ALWAYS beat the Red Sox even in spring training but the fact remains, that's just not realistic. And when we lost to them badly during the regular season, questions arose from the Bronx as to whether it really was the year that THEY were going to win it all... 
 
In the past, they never did. Whether it was because of Babe or Bucky or Buckner or Boone, the Red Sox always managed to lose. Now the Red Sox have won it all and the rivalry is now severely diminished.

We as fans are no longer going to be able to chant "1918." Again, the beauty of the rivalry is that Boston always came oh so close but was never able to grab the crown. Their sincere passion to say "wait till next year" was as sincere as our "1918" chants. Now, that extra passion is gone. And even on years when the Yankees stunk (very late 80's/early 90's), we were still able to do the 1918 thing. Because even if we couldn't be champions, at least they weren't either!

The streak/curse is over. Anyone who says Boston winning it all will "fuel" the rivalry is trying to put a spin on things that is just pure fabrication. It was "The Curse of the Bambino" that made this thing extra special. There will no longer be any talk of our "ghosts" or "mystique & aura" and no subplots of Bucky or Boone. It will just be two teams meeting and the better team winning and the lesser team losing. It will be purely cosmetic and that little extra juice won't be there anymore. There is also no such thing as the Yankees getting "revenge" and coming back hungrier next year. What revenge? Overall, we still have 26 titles to their 1 since 1918. But them winning just once will be felt forever, no matter how many more we win. 

2004 will be forever known as the worst year in Yankee history. There is no real way to get over this, we as Yankee fans must try to somehow cope with this horrible reality and try and move on. There is no other way. There is no other choice. I don't care what anyone says, Boston winning the World Series is the worst thing that could have happened to this rivalry and to baseball in general. Next year is going to be a long, hard year and when these two teams meet again, it's just going to be weird and uncomfortable, and just not what it used to be. Even if we rattle off three World Series in a row, the sting will still be felt for 2004 as being the year of the Red Sox. I just want to forget this year ever happened. But it's going to take a long time. 

I always thought to myself that if I was given a choice by God where I'd be told that I'd be unable to watch another Yankee World Series victory parade for the rest of my life in exchange for knowing that the Red Sox would never win it all in my lifetime, I would take it. I've already seen the Yankees win it in my lifetime more times than the Mets have ever won it. At times, you may feel bad for the poor Mets or even laugh at them. They are like our little sisters. Heck, they are from New York like us, so no Yankee fan should ever despise them as much as those dirty "Sawx." I'm not a Mets fan and could care less what they do, and I'm a Red Sox hater, but yet I care what they do. I care that they lose. They must always lose. But they didn't lose in 2004.

The Red Sox are our bitter rivals and rivals do not deserve to ever win a battle. But they did. I always believed that Boston should finish in last place every year and we should destroy them every chance we get. But again, that didn't always happen and more often than not, they were that troublesome pest that always TRIED to beat us, creeping behind in second place. But not anymore. 

I know that the Yankees as a whole are in complete devastation right now. I'm sure The Boss went into his rage of anger when the Yanks lost the ALCS but now, I'm sure he's in utter shock and disbelief, on the verge of a heart attack. That's how serious it is now that the Red Sox won a World Series. From the Yankees minor leagues on up, it is imbedded into a player's skull to BEAT THE RED SOX and HATE THE RED SOX. I'm sure that lesson will still be taught, but this rivalry will just never be the same again.

The Yankee apocalypse of 2004 will forever be remembered just as clearly as the 26 World Championships and 86 years of dominance over Boston.
