I recommended this book to all of my book loving friends and associates because I saw Hill Harper on 106 & Park and I thought the idea for this book was BIG.  I bought a copy to give to my nephews, but I wanted to read it first to make sure it was something I would want them to read.  

Cons: I tried to put myself in my nephews' crazy minds and guess how they'd react to certain lines.  When Harper kept saying "I love you," I'm sure my oldest nephew would've said something like "Man, I don't know him!"  When Harper said he'd send a picture in his scuba gear, I'm sure both of them would've cracked up laughing and said "Ugh, what does he have on?!"  Scuba gear is not exactly the coolest outfit to send a young boy.  When Harper started talking about surfing, he lost me for a minute.  How many young boys that he was talking to (who are thinking of making "quick money," "being in the streets," saying school "is not for me," and trying to have sex with girls would get excited about the thought of surfing?  Maybe skateboarding, for those new school hip-hop heads who adore Pharrell, but surfing?  Nah, I wasn't buying it.  I was a little disappointed with the parts where he was supposed to be talking to the "young brother" and congratulated him on getting an A.  But what if the boy reading this actually only got a C?  Would that make him feel any less?  Harper kept talking about the people he knew and the places he'd been.  I wondered if it would come off as bragging to a young boy who has not gotten the chance to barely leave his neighborhood, so he definitely hasn't gotten out of the country.

Pros:  To totally contradict my cons, there are so many young boys who have NEVER heard the words "I love you" so it may be a relief and flattering to them to read that SOMEBODY loves them.  DMX was on his reality show talking about how his mother never told him that she loved him, so now he says he loves his kids at least five times a day.  I'm sure that's gotta make his children feel good (and probably embarassed if he does it in front of their friends), but it could definitely be a self-esteem booster.  As for the places Harper traveled, it could make young brothers want to go to those places just to see if they can have as much fun as Harper.  
I loved the quotes from celebrities; those were some of the rawest and relevant quotes I've ever read.  I kept hoping Reverend Run would be in there, but hey, Harper had GREAT quotes from people that young brothers would want to hear more about like Jadakiss, Denzel, Will Smith, David Banner, and Andre 3000.  When I saw the letter from Nas, I was sold.  What young brother would not want to read what one of the classic hip-hop lyricists EVER had to say?  Then to top it off, Barack Obama is in here too!  I was indeed impressed with that.
I was thoroughly entertained by the back and forth e-mails at the end of each chapter and looked forward to that more than the actual chapters.  The chapters on "Friends and Family," "Finding Your Swagga," and "Sex Matters" were the strongest chapters in the book to me and I'm sure to a lot of young men. 

I think every young man needs some kind of male role model and if for some reason they cannot find it in a present human being, why not a book concentrating on them
