I really enjoy all of Hillerman's mysteries. I could tell this was an earlier one not just by the wear and tear of the book, but because his writing has changed and matured for the better in substantial ways. It's interesting how most women mystery writers tend to get worse with time, become more formulaic and can't break the mold. In Hillerman's books, I think the increasing emphasis on the culture and history of the 'four corners' area of the U.S. and the native Americans who live in that area, is as much a pull to his books as the mysteries are. 

This book included a big part of the plot dealing with what are called Navajo 'wolves', which I guess does not exactly converge with European idea of witches, but rather a choice on the part of a person to choose to live out of harmony with their religious and familial beliefs. I actually wonder if we shouldn't come up with a word for that, because the idea of witches is archaic and from the Middle Ages, but many people make choices against societal mores everyday (and getting worse) and we need a new word for that.

Chee gets involved because of his own desire to become a practitioner of his tribe's religion as a shaman (though that word is wrong here also). Chee meets one of the women who have impacted his life and becomes torn about between the 'white man's world' and that of his own people. Apparently, several Indians are dying or have died from a long term illness, cancer, which  under normal condition cannot be given to a person like a influeza virus. At the same time, are several unexplained shootings, all having to do with a religion that became active during my teen years having to do with eating peyote buttons (cactus) with hallucinative abilities. I knew about this in CA because in the Bay area all the hippies were trying all kinds of drugs like LSD, and marijuana, and peyote was another one we would hear about, but of course this was outside the religious use.

This book and it's plot was very interesting. Hillerman just wound up the ending really fast without explaining some things concerning the gunman hired to hurry up the deaths of the Indians, and a man who had too many fingers in too many pies...a white man who was fighting with other white men and other Indians concerning this religion and a 30-year old unsolved bombing of a oil drill. We would hear all about those too when we would go to see our grandparents in Mesa, Arizona and the unfair treatment of the Native Americans over their lands and the mineral rights of those lands. 

Hillerman's later novels are more satisfying, but as with most talents, some people do get better with time and age...

Karen Sadle
