Genetic genealogy is a blossoming market and the number of books in this space is rapidly growing.  Major books include:  Seven Daughters of Eve, Adam's Curse, Trace your Roots with DNA, and DNA and Family History.

Professor Bryan Sykes' book The Seven Daughters of Eve was a seminal work.  This book focuses on mtDNA (Mitochondrial DNA) that is passed down the maternal line.  This book is written in an easy to read style that creates the tone and tenor of a mystery novel.  The punch line of this book is that all maternal lines can be traced back to seven theoretic women who lived at different places in the worlds at different times.  This book is very light reading and similar to picking up a pop culture magazine. This book is not recommended other than as the most basic introduction to genetic genealogy.  It also suffers from it's minimal discussion of paternal DNA testing (Y-chromosome) which is the most popular form of DNA testing today.

Sykes second book "Adam's Curse" discusses the long term de-evolution of the male chromosome.  It's a shame that Sykes has stooped to pandering to sensationalistic popular culture instead in more serious genetic research.  Sykes made a name for himself in this space, but it seems that this segment of science has passed him by.

Two excellent introductory books were published in 2004 -- "Trace Your Roots with DNA : Using Genetic Tests to Explore Your Family Tree" by Megan Smolenyak and Ann Turner and "DNA and Family History: How Genetic Testing Can Advance Your Genealogical Research" by Chris Pomery.

In Trace your Roots, Smolenyak, who makes her living as a professional genealogist, branches out into genetics and DNA testing.  She hooks up with Ann Turner, the past administrator of a key DNA message list, to create a good introductory book on genetic genealogy.  This book covers all the basics for someone who is considering having a DNA test done.  I was disappointed that almost half the book (90 out of 235 pages) was dedicated to starting and running a DNA project.  I view this material as fluffy filler since most readers aren't likely to need this information.

A similar book is Chris Pomery's "DNA and Family History".  This book also covers all the basics in a straightforward and informative way.  This book focuses primary on the most popular form of DNA Testing -- testing of the paternal Y-chromosome line.  The book includes numerous references to the book's online site (www.DNAandFamilyHistory.com).  This site is supposed to contain supplementary information but many links don't seem to have been activated. 

Pomery does a nice job contrasting genetic families that might be derived from a single ancestor with those that might be derived from multiple ancestors.  He also discusses the origins of various classes of surnames which is important in understand this issue.  Pomery also uses many examples from surname projects that can be found on the web.

One knock on both books is their minimal discussion of what DNA testing can't do.  Neither book elaborates on the limitations of DNA testing for genealogists such as testing inability to definitively identify parents and brother and the small and biased sample sizes that home geneticists are using to make sweeping conclusions.  Neither book describes in more than a paragraph or two the lasting thinking about haplogroups -- i.e., the origin of R, E, J, etc. Y-DNA clusters.  In addition, neither book will aid the experienced DNA researcher. 

My recommendation:
If you looking for one day's worth of beach reading, try Seven Daughters of Eve or Spencer Wells, Journey of Man.  Also consider getting these books at the library as these seminal works are quick reads that you don't need cluttering up your shelves.

If you are a serious genealogist or are considering DNA testing or joining the National Geographic Genographics Project, then stick to Smolenyak or Pomery.  After reading both, I find them both excellent and roughly equivalent.  However, I clearly prefer DNA and Family History by Chris Pomery.  The book simply contains more information which is presented in a more straightforward fashion.

Kevin Campbell
Campbell DNA Project Administrator
