As a special ed teacher of an autistic classroom, I found this book very interesting. It was written at a time when ABA treatment for autism was a little known and cutting edge treatment, whereas now you can barely Google the word 'autism' without countless ABA references. As a result, Ms. Maurice describes a journey through a world of therapy options that have fallen by the wayside in today's treatment world...play therapy, holding therapy, and the like. This book is famous because it helped, in part, to make ABA the widely used therapy it is today. 

As others have noted, a part of me does wonder how much of the two recoveries in this book were attributable to ABA. I think it was a factor, but I think there were likely other factors at play as well. Many children receive 40+ hours of this therapy a week with widely varied levels of success...if I remember correctly, Anne-Marie was only getting about 10 hours a week (well below the  number of hours required for ABA to show effectiveness in controlled studies) and yet she fully recovered in less than two years. Autism is not an all or nothing proposition...I'm sure the therapy aided in their recovery but it seems likely that these children were also high functioning to begin with.  

I did appreciate Ms. Maurice's take on some of the older treatments for autism that were in widespread use at the time. I think play therapy is fine if it's being used to teach skills...as in, let's hide the balls 'in', 'on', and 'under' the furniture to learn about prepositions. I disagree with the type of play therapy described in the book, however, which seems to operate on the idea that autistic children are emotionally disturbed and need psychological healing in order to recover. The same basic idea is used in holding therapy. I don't think it can be said enough...autism is NOT, I repeat NOT, a psychological problem. It is a neurological difference that is present from birth or develops soon thereafter. Unless a child is severely neglected or physically abused to the point of neurological injury, autism is NOT caused by bad parenting (or by any particular style of parenting at all, for that matter). So even if I don't agree with the super pro-Lovaas-style-ABA philosophy of this book, I thought Maurice made an important point there. 
