Brian McAllister Linn examines the Philippine-American War with meticulous detail.  From documents from the National Archives and Philippine secondary literature, Linn has organized a comprehensive and well-researched analysis of the military aspect of the war.  He attempts to concentrate on the strategic realm rather than the ideological that have already been discussed and examined in previous scholarship.  Linn does not debunk myths or reanalyzes perceptions and interpretations that have existed since the 1960s that involved the atrocities that occurred during the conflict because that is not his intention for this examination of the war.

The book soley concentrates on the military effort or the "American War" and a birds eye view of the Filipino insurgents that have been recorded and documented in the archives.  In addition, Linn specifically asserts that the book is a military overview of an event that was accidental and incremental in the acquisition and annexation of Manila during the latter half of the Spanish-American War (5).  He discusses the main military actors and participants during the conflict,  Maj. Gen. Wesley Merritt, Elwell S. Otis, Brig. Gen. Arthur MacArthur, and Philippine President, Emilio Aguinaldo.  He argues that the war was essential in securing trade interests in Asia, but does not support or clarifies speculative claims that involved McKinley and imperialism.  As a result of Linn's military study, McKinley is almost absent from this narrative except in the preliminary chapters of the book.

THE PHILIPPINE-AMERICAN WAR, 1899-1902 is divided into two sections.  The first half of the book covers the operations in Luzon in 1899 and the second half explores guerilla warfare and pacification campaigns that occurred in 1900-1902.  Linn specifically covers different regions of the Archipelago where the conflict occurred in Luzon and the Visayas Islands, which included the overlooked region of Negros.  Linn's descriptive narrative and background information in the form of  maps are helpful for readers who are not too familiar with the Philippine Islands and their distinct regions, which consists of over 7,000 islands and covers 500,000 square miles (15).    

Linn's study respects the military and civilian voices of the past.  He credits the military leadership and volunteers in the success of securing the Islands.  Linn's play by play historical narrative provides a neutral approach in telling the story of one of American history's most difficult and complex events.  For every event in history, each has its own story and circumstance, and cannot be compared to other conflicts that may have happened in the past or in recent times.  However, it is yet another chapter in history that needs to be better understood. 
