This book must have been a phenomenon back in the 80s. Gay Talese: conservative gentleman, respected journalists, family man, and...sex researcher. In the last twenty pages, or so, of this book, Talese opens up and recounts for the reader his personal odyssey of visiting massage parlors, sex shows, strip clubs, as well as his philandering experiences shacking up at free love communities in California -- all before the outbreak of AIDS. Talese speaks about himself in the third person, probably as a narrative technique to distance himself from the guilt he might have felt participating in such research as a married man. While the soul searching wasn't quite enough for me, the journalism really hit the mark. Talese describes the history of pornography, from the time it was banned in the U.S., up through the major Supreme Court obsenity cases of the 60's and 70's. Along the way, Talese tells the story of Playboy power-man Hugh Heffner, describing his hedonistic lifestyle in envious detail. (There is a naughty man buried inside Talese. TNW treats the voyeuristic reader to the show Talese puts on as he lets us watch this naughty man struggle to climb out.) 

The book also chronicles a number of "regular" folks from the 70's who happened to fall into Talese's circle of aquaintences as he was writing the book. (It did, after all, take Talese nine years to write TNW -- and, as an aside, I never did figure out why Talese chose this title; never, once, does he write about his or any neighbor's wife. He could be refering, however, to the general "free love" culture that emerged in the 60s and 70s.) These "regular" folk are supposed to represent the average 1970s American. Not once was I conviced that the people Talese followed through his narrative were actually average. But this is secondary. The journalism is first-rate.

I bought this book because I am a student of the narrative non-fiction genre. Talese is a Master of the discipline. This book keep the Master's reputation secure. If you're looking to learn about writing non-fiction, and you're looking for a topic a little out of the ordinary, choose this book. Talese's most recent book from a few years ago, A WRITER'S LIFE, is said to briefly follow-up (in a few chapters) with his observations about American sexuality. I have not read this new book, but it will be interesting to see what 25 years have done to this man's perceptions
