I dont currently have this copy but I recently read 'High Treason' and now Iam on role of doing research from the same books that the authors had from that book.  
They point to everyone but Oswald.  CIA, FBI and various politicians all knew that this was going to happen and they all failed to notify the authorities.  George Bush Sr. is reported to one of those people.  He worked at the CIA at that time.      

1. Oswald didnt get hired at the TSBD until two weeks before the assassination.  Obviously his fingerprints are going to be found somewhere.  They weren't found on the gun that was considered to be the snipers rifle.  

2. The CIA changed the motorcade route just previous to the president arriving in Dallas.          

3. Jack Ruby was reported to be seen near the grassy knoll just prior to the assassination.  Why would he be in that exact spot had he not known something was about happen??  Coincidence yeah its possible.  

4.  Just after the shooting a report goes out on the radio saying that the police suspect a lone gunman.  How do they know to put a report out saying this when the shooting had just barely taken place.  

5. Allen Dulles (CIA)was head of the Warren Commission and was going to be fired by JFK at some point.  The CIA didnt like that.  JFK stated he was going to 'tear up the CIA into a million pieces' and fling them into the air.  

6. JFK pulled out of Vietnam and the CIA didnt like that.  They had recently bought Bell helicopters and if there wasn't going to be war then they wouldnt have a way to fund other secretive operations.

7. In High Treason you are able to see that there clearly two shots from the front.  On in the right side of the forehead and another to the throat.  

8. The doctors in Dallas testified in court that two shots came from the front.  Once JFK got to Maryland those doctors said something entirely different from the earlier findings.     

9. Was Oswald involved??  Yeah I think he was but possibly as a CIA operative.  Who was the 2nd Oswald we may never know.  He clearly didnt act alone.  He was spending way over what he was earning so clearly the funds were coming from somewhere.   

Read High Treason and/or watch the Zapruder film and that will change your view on this subject.   
Other involvments could be LBJ and or Nixon.  Theres a theory out there that Watergate and Assassination of JFK are connected.          
