A couple of years ago I swore off diets forever, and I still think it's one of the best moves I've ever made. So why did I pick up this book? I wasn't enjoying my meals like I thought I should, and enough of an obsession with food remained in my psyche to spoil my peace of mind. Past experiences with the European approach to eating had been wonderful, so I was curious to see what Dr. Clower would say. I read the book as a "how to eat well and love it" manual rather than a "lose weight" guide, avoiding parts of the book that even hinted at calorie or portion recommendations. The results have been great. For the past six weeks, by eating higher-quality and tastier food, slowing down and really relishing my food, making mealtimes a relaxing break in the day, etc. I've been enjoying my food more than I have in years. Rarely do I feel any anxiety about food and mealtimes now. Also, I've been fascinated at how this approach really makes me satisfied with less. I always thought eating less would mean less to enjoy, but this hasn't been the case. When I'm satisfied after a few bites, I just look forward to the next meal. Enjoying my meals and rarely having that too-stuffed feeling is a wonderful change. Eating less has also balanced out the expense of switching to better food. I've lost some weight, all while drinking whole milk, eating 2 or 3 leisurely meals rather than the diet-gurus' recommended but unmanageable 5 to 6 meals a day, not obsessing over carbs, etc--in other words, while breaking all kinds of diet rules. What beautiful irony! But the best thing about this approach is the sense of well-being and peace it promotes. Read selectively, this book helped me step farther away from the artificial, diet-obsessed insanity that's out there. My reason for 4 instead of 5 stars is that this book still promotes itself with one foot in the "diet" camp. But all in all, it's an inspiring, useful, and almost therapeutic book. I'd even say life-changing, except that it's been just six weeks, and only time will tell how well these changes settle into my life over the long run. Great recipies too, by the way.
