This collection of Future History stories was first published in 1951, and it consists of 9 short stories and one novella which were originally published between March of 1941 and December of 1949.  The collection itself was recognized by fans in the Astounding/Analog All-Time Polls in 1952 and 1956 where it ranked 8th and 17th respectively.  The stories in this collection are chronological with respect to Heinlein's Future History.  These are some of the classic stories from Heinlein's early writings.  This is definitely a must read for anyone who likes Science Fiction.

"Delilah and the Space-Rigger" was originally published in "Bluebook" in December of 1949.  It is the story of what happens when a woman, Gloria Brooks McNye,  is hired as a replacement radio technician for what had been an all-male crew building a space station.

"Space Jockey" was first published in "The Saturday Evening Post" on April 26, 1947.  It is the story of Jake Pemberton whose job (space pilot) is causing stress on his marriage.

"The Long Watch" was first published in "American Legion Magazine" in December of 1949.  This is the story of Johnny Dahlquist, who tries to prevent Colonel Towers from staging a coup and taking control of the Moon and Earth.  This is one of two stories from this collection that have been recognized by fans in the long term.  It was recognized in 1971 on the Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll of Short Fiction where it tied for 30th.  Then in 1999, it tied for 33rd on the Locus All-Time Poll for Short Stories.

"Gentlemen, Be Seated!" was first published in "Argosy" in May of 1948.  This is the story of a journalist, Jack Arnold, who during a visit to Lunar City he goes to check out a mining operation when he is looking for a story.  He is trapped in a tunnel when an accident isolates him and two others from the rest of the base.

"The Black Pits of Luna" was first published in "The Saturday Evening Post" on January 10, 1948.  The story is about the Logan family who is visiting the Moon.  The youngest son disappears when they are touring the surface of the Moon.  It is written from the point of view of the elder of the two sons.

"It's Great To Be Back!" was first published in "The Saturday Evening Post" on July 26, 1947.  It is the story of Allan and Josephine MacRae who are eager to return to Earth after spending a few years on the Moon.  Once they get to Earth, they find things are not as good as they remembered.

"-We Also Walk Dogs" was first published in "Astounding" in July of 1941 under the pseudonym Anson MacDonald.  In this story, General Services is offered a large contract to create a meeting environment on Earth for an important government meeting.  The catch is how can they counter the effects of gravity for those attendees from lower density environments?

"Ordeal In Space" was first published in "Town & Country" in May of 1948.  It is the story of a space hero who is suffering from acrophobia after an incident in space.  He tries to create a simple life for himself on Earth, when a stray cat forces him to confront his fear.

"The Green Hills Of Earth" was first published in "The Saturday Evening Post" on February 8, 1947.  It is the story of Rhysling, the Blind Singer of the Spaceways, who lost his sight saving a ship and then spends years bumming rides and singing his songs.  He decides eventually to return to Earth, and then another incident results in his greatest work.  This is one of the classic stories of Science Fiction.  In 1971, it was tied for 2nd on the Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll for Short Fiction, and in 1999 it rated 10th on the 1999 Locus All-Time Poll for Short Stories.

"Logic of Empire" is the novella that was first published in "Astounding" in March of 1941.  In this story, two wealthy friends argue about whether or not the working conditions on Venus could be considered slavery.  When they wake up, they discover that after getting drunk, they have signed on for a work assignment on Venus to settle the bet
