This is a good book covering the paradoxes of newfangled scientific approaches such as Quantum physics and parapsychology - two "modern" approaches of the last century, which have transformed Humanity's potential perception of both its worldly reality and prior metaphysical concepts. Ordinarily, people tend nowadays to lump all such material as "new age" stuff, along with mumbo jumbo on things such as aliens, reincarnation, aromatherapy, spells and soothing music, etc. No doubt all these are part of the vast new "genre" spawned by such new awakenings, but this book is definitely an upmarket type as it deals in detail with the theoretical and scientific investigative aspects of this new direction. There are of course umpteen such books, and umpteen are fit to be called excellent. During the last 20-30 years of the previous century, the developed world produced a sea of "human potential" literature arising from this new awareness, aimed at self-help and improvement. Thousands of prophets and teachers also appeared, some fake charlatans, some average, some remarkable... Like all such enlightened thinkers, Paul Ward also sees a niche for himself as one such messenger, and suffers from the naivete and idealism of believing in the totality of his solutions to the crises from which modern humanity suffers. These however seem to be the drawbacks of most such enthused teachers. Sugesstions such as "if we just do this" or "if we behave like that" are simply not valid determinants of the course of human fate, and sadly won't cure its maladies with the wave of such a magic wand, even if they succeed in bettering them by 90%, which many modern innovations appear to have done individually as well as collectively, for those affected by them... If that were so, history would be a different tale altogether, and wouldn't suffer from the shortcomings we now lament and call the shackles of reality. Or Francis Fukuyama's "The End of History" concept would be valid... (or perhaps he really meant the end of a certain type of historical process, which is what I forsee eventually). It takes more to effectively better the collective human condition and change history than just adopt new ideas openly. That is the lesson of reality
