Let the gushing begin...

I read this book twice in a row, then a 3rd time a few weeks later after lending it to a friend. Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha was my first encounter with Roddy Doyle, and I've since read The Commitments as well, but this remains my favorite.

The most startling thing about the book is that it is written by a man, because the first-person female narrative is so accurate and never feels forced.

Those who critique this book as plotless are looking at it the wrong way - there is no clear beginning, middle and end because we are looking at a cross-section of a person's life. It's messy and honest and sometimes difficult to handle.

As for typos, my copy also had a few that were likely the result of cheap publishing. However, I would bet that several readers, especially those who have never read Doyle before, do not realize that some punctuation and grammatical errors are intentional.  Paula is an uneducated alcoholic struggling to stay above the poverty line. You'll notice that when she's drinking, her 'speech' is often different than when she is talking about work or her children. In Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha, Patrick, the main character, talks in the mile-a-minute, stream-of-consciousness way that all 8-year olds do, which isn't necessarily grammatically correct. It's this writing style that makes Doyle's writing human; sometimes wince-inducingly so.

(Also, Americans might struggle reading the thick Dublin-ese. I did.)

I don't have page numbers at hand, but a few of my favorite excerpts are when she is riding the DART with the woman she cleans office buildings with, and imagining spilling her guts to the woman, a virtual stranger. The times she recalls her wedding and when she and Charlo were first dating not only offer comic relief to an otherwise brutal book, but also give a glimpse as to why, sadly, she would endure his abuse.

The beauty of Doyle's writing is in the minor, day-to-day details he mentions, making Paula so real.

When Doyle finally gets to the details of the abuse, the words are relentlessly pulverizing, and we as readers can almost feel the blows, feeling exhausted by the end, imagining what this woman has endured.

Paula's relationship with her sister Carmel is complex and insightful as well, and is fleshed out beautifully as a subplot.

A long review, but I cannot say enough good things about this book. I only wish I could say more eloquently what this book means to me.

