It is clear that this is the book that Christian fundamentalists (I say this as an American, but I suppose the Muslim and other fundamentalists elsewhere would also fight it) don't want you to read.

Why? Because it takes control away from them. Our religions have taught us that God is more Judge than Helper. I know this as a former fundamentalist Christian, there was nothing more disturbing to my church than to hear that I was no longer going to humble myself, hate myself, give them money, and allow them to dictate every action in my life. Our religions teach us that we are dirty, despicable beings whom God created that way "out of love" but still holds it against us. That because God put a man and a woman into a garden thousands of years ago knowing (as God is all-knowing) that they would do what God defined as "sin", and them blame it on not only them but every other human being that has ever and will ever existed - we - every person alive - are responsible. Only the bloody sacrifice of Himself could have appeased him, and we're still born filthy sinners and have no chance of going to "heaven" unless we accept that this sacrifice actually happened and was for our own good, and thank God profusely and endlessly for it while also constantly grieving to God about how worthless and terrible we are, and confess every so-called "sin" to Him in complete sorrow and repentance, or else we'll go to hell to writhe in pain for all eternity, no matter how "good" the life we lived was.

People criticize this book because it's "feel-good". Because God cannot possibly care about whether or not we feel good or enjoy our lives, the only thing God cares about is complete and total subservience. Even if most human beings were God they would not be so neurotic. In fact they would consider it immoral! Is God above His own law? Apparently; in the Bible he creates entire races of people only to command them to be slaughtered wholesale later.

This book introduces us to a deity that makes sense. Not only that, but we are encouraged to question what is written in this book - by the author! This deity truly is loving and understands our purposes in everything. But before anyone accuses It (for it is neither male nor female, and both) of being wishy-washy, It shows us how causing harm to others and ourselves is overall a foolish enterprise.

This God teaches us to love our God-given bodies, souls, and minds; not hate them and be ashamed of them, but to enjoy the sexual experience as a glorious union instead of teaching that pleasurable activities are wrong. The fundamentalists teach not to question anything of their religion - the reason is because they know that if you do you might very well see the nonsensicalness of their fear-based religion and the pettiness of their demanding God. In this book we are urged to find our own way, to love our lives and ourselves, to see the beauty and glory within our fingernails, all the way up to the greatest cosmic processes that are God in motion.

I recommend this book to anyone who feels lost, wants to go beyond what they have already found or reached, and wants no longer to "fear God" (an action we're told is commendable by Western religion!). Anyone whose mind is not entirely a hard shell should benefit from it.

As for the books themselves, I didn't like the third one so much as the first two, simply because I disagreed with some of its concepts regarding space/time and the Ultimate Destiny. But as far as these books and this God is concerned, that's perfectly all right. In fact, good, since I am discovering my own path rather than having it dictated to me. The first one especially should be a helper to anyone with questions in their hearts. I shouldn't say that it will entirely silence them, but it will give them possibilities and the knowledge to find one's own path
