This long, wending, fatiguing, frustrating novel is one of those rare books that are  so suffused with suffering and tragedy that the reader, if s/he is the sort of "deep" reader, as I imagine most prospective readers of this book are, will not emerge from reading it without suffering and trauma themselves. In particular, the character of Helen Loftis, whom Styron seems to have drug up from the depths of Hell, has such depraved and hateful intricacies in her soul, which Styron never ceases to plumb to their core, that this reader at least, breathed a long sigh of relief upon finishing the book and knowing that I wouldn't have to read about her anymore. She makes Lady Macbeth seem an ideal candidate for sainthood.   All of this invites the question of whether a book that causes the reader to suffer is worth the read.  To this, I don't have a pat answer.

Yes, the poetic prose is beautiful and haunting.  But so is that of Faulkner and Thomas Wolfe and Proust and Lowry and, more recently, John Banville.  I'm not sure I would recommend this book before these, or even with these.  A book which causes the reader to suffer is a unique experience in my long acquaintance with literature.  

I've not much else to say here, save to let the novel speak for itself, to let the prospective reader know what s/he is in for:

"...a song of measureless innocence that echoed among lost ruined temples of peace and brought to their dreams an impossible vision: of a love that outlasted time and dwelt even in the night, beyond the reach of death and all the immemorial, descending dusks.  Then evening came.  Arms and legs asprawl, they stirred and turned.  Twilight fell over their bodies.  They were painted with fire, like those fallen children who live and breathe and soundlessly scream, and whose souls blaze forever." Last paragraph of Chapter 5, pg. 225, in my edition.

Pretty love scene...No?  One comes away from this book feeling that one is emerging from a Hell of Styron's own devising full of characters whose souls blaze forever in its bowels.
