Readers often wonder what makes their favorite writers tick--we want to point to a significant moment in their lives, a single event which made them become writers. When asked this question, most authors tend to shrug it off, saying that they were always compelled to write. James Ellroy would answer the question differently, because he knows the defining event of his personal life and writing career. It happened in 1958, when he was ten: his mother, Jean, was found murdered, a nylon stocking and a cotton cord lashed around her neck. Her corpse was found in an ivy patch near a high school, looking, as Ellroy himself describes it, "like a classic late night body dump." Despite a thorough investigation, her murderer was never found.

When his mother died, Ellroy, the innocent victim of his parent's acrimonious divorce, was already well on the way to perfecting his "Crazy Man Act". Always somewhat of a misfit, Ellroy began to revel in his strangeness under his father's care. After his father's death seven years later, Ellroy spent the next thirteen years in a steep downward spiral, engaging in petty crime, serving jail time, and abusing drugs and alcohol. His only solace during this time were the wild fantasies he concocted in his head, and the crime novels which fueled those fantasies. 

During those decades, Ellroy struggled with the memory of "the redhead", as he often refers to his mother. Outwardly professing to hate her, he was confused by his true feelings. These repressed emotions produced a life long obsession with crime and crime fiction, which eventually surfaced in the recurring themes present in many of his novels. "Her death corrupted my imagination and gave me exploitable gifts." His writing, which allowed him to cope with his inner demons, eventually provided a means of reconciling with his mother--he would investigate her death, and attempt to find some answers to what had become the defining mystery of his own life.

In 1994, Ellroy, at the urging of his future wife, decided to try to reopen his mother's police file. With the help of Bill Stoner, a 32 year veteran of the L. A. County Sheriff's Department, Ellroy conducted his own investigation of his mother's death, which ultimately failed to uncover any significant new leads. Although marked by some startling revelations, the investigation was hampered by the passage of time and the dimming memories of the parties involved. The investigation was not a total failure, however, because in trying to find the killer, Ellroy found his mother instead. Now, instead of a fantasy construct, Ellroy has a better idea of who the real Jean Ellroy was.

Ellroy's failure to discover his mother's killer might bother some readers, but shouldn't. My Dark Places is, in the final analysis, Ellroy's attempt to reach out to his mother nearly forty years after her death, and as such, is eminently successful. By writing this memoir, Ellroy resurrects "the redhead" for a brief moment, just long enough to come to appreciate her as a person. Doing so, it seems that he finally comes to terms with her death
