Of all novels that have galloped out of John Grisham's closet,"The King of Torts" must rank as one of his best. This is a novel that invokes a chiselled language and portrays life to its near perfected harshness;a book where there's a very narrow scope of sentimentality and emotions to be more than just fringe players and one where meanderings from the mainstream idea is but a prohibited parameter. "The King of Torts" is a novel which looks at life as it is and reflects it as it is;it is the common story of how hunger for fame,fortune and success can erode moral aflictions;it is a tale of a stroke od good luck pulling down a person to the depths of conscientous and financial ruins.

"The King of Torts" is a book firmly focused on the moral decay and rampant corruption that the legal inatitution has consciously leapt into. John Grisham traces several months in the life of Clay Carter,a young public defender whose moral conviction and honest structure of job plan is dealt a blow by the undeniably powerful hand of money. As the author takes us on a roller-coaster ride with Clay,we can feel ourselves actively involved in the plethora of transactions that the protagonist of the novel engages himself in and as the journey becomes more and more bumpy,we can feel the heat of life itself. 

Five years into this profession and Clay has relinquished all hopes and expectations of ever leaving behind the lowly-paid,relative obscure onus of a public defender. The city of Washington is getting even more exasperating for him to breathe as his girlfriend's parents are looking for a new man for their daughter to marry. Rebecca Bennett too is getting fidgety and wants Clay either to accept the extended hand of help of her parents or be damned. Clay refuses to oblige and loses a major fraction of his better self. And when every feature of his life seems to conspire to dash Clay's back against the wall,a silver lining arcs itself across a dark sky.

Clay takes up a pretty humdrum and unglamorous task of defending Tequila Watson,a 20-year-old black male accused of killing a man on a street in Washington DC. To Clay this appears just one of the myriad senseless killings that are carried out across Washington every day. But a very much routine investigation into Tequila Watson's past and background seems to contain several lost pages and an equal number of loopholes. and then arrives Max Pace onto the scene offering untold riches and a place amongst the revered community in the twinklng of an eye should Clay resort to tort litigations,cease to look into Tequila Watson's issue and solve the case outside court. Clay has simply to keep mute on a secret and he could realise his age-old dream of possessing an independent law firm.

As Clay accepts this offer and from being just a peripheral figure in the battle of torts in the beginning,the central character in this superbly crafted John Grisham novel becomes the "king of torts". He becomes a renowned figure in the public eye,a hero really. But luck rotates in wheels and so inevitably Clay falls down from CLoud 9 to a bed of thorns. Clay never recovers and is entangled further and further into a web of legal mess and loses his way completely out of it. Money is want Clay once craved for and money is what he gets and money is what distorts the design of his life.

From a young lawyer exhausted of his unpromising position to an overnight millionaire.....this is the fairytale that Clay Carter lives for the space of more than a year. But wealth and power are not eternal but morals and sound princiles are and Clay realises this basic truth in the crudest fashion under the sun. His rise is meteoric and his downfall equally spectacular but John Grisham's portrayal of the character Clay Carter is really a microcosm. Himself a former lawyer,Grisham doesn't find putting himself into the shoes of the lead actor in this drama that tough and neither is one of the most prolific writer in contemporary time inept at showcasing the dire corruption that has seeped into law and which dissolves youthful idealism in no time. Characters such as Mulrooney,Patton French and Saulsberry---whom the author paints so marvellously with the shade of reality---are overlapping in the aspect that all these lawyers resort to tort litigation to make fast money without paying no regard to teir original profession. Indeed it is Grisham's sardonic view of the legal institution and the various elements there that is so overwhelingly captivating in this book. The kinds of lawyers who feature in this book are the true and fair images of their real-life counterparts and the added dimension of a very subtle language sharpened on the edge of a die-hard authrative ambition marks a massive onslaught on the undertakings that occur in the legal proffesion,and by extension in all the apparent noble callings. John Grisham's "The King of Torts" is a greatly satirical novel that etches reality into its own ereal-life colours and the final product is a picture that shattes the whole essence of law and jurisdiction
