Alexander Hamilton by Ron Chernow is a detailed and fascinating biography of the greatest of the Founding Fathers never to become president. Hamilton is often caricatured as an elitist who wanted to hand control of early America to the prototypical "Eastern Establishment." Chernow instead shows us how Hamilton was a man of vision who laid the groundwork for the strong federal government and sound financial institutions that made possible American greatness. His partnership with George Washington as America's first Treasury Secretary was perhaps the greatest tour de force ever by a cabinet officer. Hamilton was a great lawyer with a deep grasp of history and the law. Along with James Madison, he was the primary author of The Federalist Papers, and his influence in the acceptance and interpretation of the Constitution was indispensable. 

Alexander Hamilton will intrigue you if you are at all interested in the political aspects of early America, but it's also a terrific biography of the man. Hamilton was born illegitimate in the West Indies, and by sheer hard work and energy got himself to New York and King's College (now Columbia). He arrived just as the American Revolution was breaking out, and his talent soon brought him to the notice of George Washington, who made young Hamilton his chief aide. Hamilton and Washington had a father-son relationship, complete with frustration, resentment, and disappointment. Their partnership continued into Washington's presidency and became critical to the development of executive power. 

There is juice in this book too. Hamilton was a man troubled by demons. He didn't suffer fools gladly, and when out from under Washington's steadying influence he was capable of spectacular errors in judgment. He also seems to have a strong sex drive. When he was a young man, he took a male lover, fellow Continental officer John Laurens, for whom he had a deep affection. Laurens was killed in the war. Hamilton then married the pretty and down-to-earth Eliza Schuyler, daughter of a prominent New York family. Alexander and Eliza loved and respected each other and delighted in their family, which eventually grew to eight children. Yet something in Hamilton drew him into a dark and sordid affair with a grifter named Maria Reynolds. Their affair became public in the first political sex scandal of the young Republic. 

Hamilton's rivalry with Thomas Jefferson, Washington's secretary of state, defined his later life and became the basis for the emergence of the two-party system in America. It was interesting to read about how Jefferson cultivated his image as a simple farmer, giving up his early prediliction for fine clothes and powdered hair for rumpled suits and house slippers. Chernow does a good job of explaining how the two factions emerged and what they each stood for. All too often, the Federalists are said to stand for "business," while Jefferson's Republicans (confusingly enough, the ancestors of the Democratic party) stood for the "common man." As Chernow shows, the Federalists instead stood for a vision of a capitalist democracy, while the Republican vision of America was an agricultural republic that would, not coincidentally, benefit the slave-holding elite of the South. 





