Every story has to have an ending, every tale has winners and losers but to every end their is another beginning. This book tells the beginning of the "new" beginning of Germany after the most horrific war in human history. But as we are to know, their are two tales of Germany, the East and the West. This is story of the East, just the first 4 years and how a broken country was pushed towards Sovietization and had its citizens punished in one way or another until in the end, the cracks of the Soviet/Socialist system broke and Germany in the end was free.

This book is not the greatest as it repeats itself at times and it seems like you are missing a major part of the story when you finish one chapter. Every chapter starts in '45 and ends in '49 and each subject written on that chapter is sorted out that way. Sounds simple but it does get complicated at times. The best chapters though deal with the Formation of the SED and the man with the greatest influence on the East German political system: Tuil'panov. Those two chapters tell the most important aspects of East Germany as they are the best reads of the book. 

An intersting book with good research put into it but in the end their is something missing. If the book could have put a little more enphasis on world politics concerning East Germany at that time it would have been more enjoyable otherwise you have to wonder why things happened at the exact moment they happened. 

This is the last chapter of WWII for Germany a chapter that laster 46 years. This is how it all began. The major players are all examined in the political sense but not in a personal sense, another flaw in the book. But even they wanted the best for the German people, one system against another, one ideolegy against another and Germany in the middle of it again. The cold war did not revolve around Germany but to Superpowers respected leaders, Germany was the most important place of all to show what each system could do. Understand how it all started by reading this book.
