Barry Strauss' The Battle of Salamis provides a good rendering of this important sea battle that turned back the invasion of Greece, led by Persian King Xerxes.  After breaking through the defensive position of the Spartans at Thermopylae, the Persian army then moved southward and sacked Athens.  All that stood between Xerxes and the taking of Greece was the Greek fleet.

This book begins with a description of the basic ship, the trireme, to help provide the reader with some context.  Also, the events leading up to Salamis are discussed. Some of the intriguing personalities, such as Queen Artemisia, who commanded part of the Persian fleet, are well described and add depth to the discussion.

Heavily outnumbered by the great fleet of Xerxes (which did not feature, ironically, Persian ships), the Greeks gathered their fleet at the island of Salamis.  The Greeks faced internal disagreement, with the Athenian Themistocles contending with a not very cohesive alliance.

The battle itself began with the Persian fleet moving into position, rowing during the evening.  On the one hand, this led to a modest surprise as they emerged at Salamis; the down side was that those rowing the ships were exhausted and, possibly, not in the best shape for a major battle.  The next day, the Greek fleet attacked and, due to a variety of factors, smashed the Persian fleet and sent it in chaotic retreat.  Greek ships picked off retreating ships easily, inflicting extremely heavy losses.

The book concludes with the telling of Xerxes' retreat, of the sad picture of the Athenian hero, Themistocles, ending up begging Xerxes' successor, Artaxerxes, for some position with the Persian Empire.

Overall, this is a valuable and readable book examining what is termed the Greek "Gettysburg" by the author.  The aftereffects of the failure of the Persian attack could be better described.  The reader might wish more detail on the context of the death of Xerxes. Nonetheless, a book worth reading for those interested in this period in history.
