"Miriam's Kitchen" is Elizabeth Ehrlich's inspirational, poignant memoir of life lessons learned in the kitchen of her Polish mother-in-law Miriam, of Miriam's sorrows and hardships translated into endless baking for Elizabeth's family. Like all things Jewish, the bitter with the sweet: there are recipes and mouthwatering descriptions of desserts: cakes, including chocolate sour cream and chocolate-chip pineapple cake, honey cake, Mandelbrot, cookies, and danishkes, holiday dishes (gefilte fish, kneydlekh, kompot chai, latkes), and scrumptious sides (sweet-and-sour cabbage, kugel, summer squash) from Miriam and from the author's grandmothers as well. 

Not merely an authentic document of vanishing, labor-intensive, but ultimately rewarding Polish-Jewish immigrant cuisine (which it excels at), "Miriam's Kitchen" also traces the lives of the author's grandmothers and the role that Judaism played (or failed to play) in her upbringing. The main thrust of the novel is the heartfelt search for Jewish roots, beginning by a gradual kosherization of her kitchen (one must have at least two sets of dishes, utensils, and sponges), and extending to the mikvah (ritual bath) and Torah study. 

The book is divided into a year, with each chapter covering a month. At the beginning of each chapter is a short diary segment chronicling the author's self-doubts, past treyf transgressions, and regret that she did not spend more time with Miriam sooner. Each chapter is filled with luscious smells from the past: Jewish comfort food as Miriam's mother's mother taught her, prepared without modern conveniences, many recipes existing only in the mind of the chef, having never been written down. Throughout Miriam's lessons, we are given glimpses of Miriam's hardships encountered in surviving the Holocaust, of the pioneering spirit of a young Israel, and the death of her daughter and long wait for grandchildren from Elizabeth, of longing fiercely for someone to love and to pass her knowledge down to.

This beautifully written novel was an inspiration: delicious recipes, to be sure, that recalled cooking next to my babcia as she would make babka, pierogi, golabki, and nalesniki in a small, cozy apartment kitchen, and the loss of culture with the death of the older immigrant generation (I never did get written copies of my grandmother's recipes that she cooked from her memories of her girlhood in Poland, something which I dearly regret). The most moving part of the book for me was the author's spiritual reawakening and the reconciling of Jewish tradition at odds with the lure of the modern world: refusing her children hamburgers and milkshakes, un-kosher fried chicken, and pizza with pepperoni in favor of cooking at home, of reclaimed family time on traditional Shabbats, of rediscovering the power and magic of ritual, and ultimately, a greater sense of purpose in her life. 
