First, I am a marginal poker fan.  I didn't jump on the bandwagon like everybody else following the success of the World Poker Tour and the World Series of Poker.

Second, maybe now I will.

The Professor, The Banker, and The Suicide King details the three year period in which a billionaire banker attempted to beat the best professional poker players in the world at their own game.  Andy Beal is a self-made billionaire with an obsession to be great at everything he does.  In 2001, he took up poker, and rather than attempt to be great at the smaller games, he attempts to be even better at the big games...against the best of the best.  

If you're familiar with names like Howard Lederer, Doyle Brunson, Ted Forrest, etc., you'll identify with and enjoy Beal's escapades between 2001 & 2004.  Like I said, I am a marginal poker fan (and player) and found this story intriguing and hard to put down.  At the same time, I was conflicted on whether to feel sorry for Beal (who gets killed over the three year period, to the tune of about $20 million) or despise him as just another rich guy needlessly throwing his money away instead of doing something for the greater good with it.  

Things I enjoyed:  The game of poker is certainly not the seedy game confined to the underground like in the past, and Craig does a good job of focusing part of his writing effort on detailing this.  He also does a great job profiling each of the professionals Beal attempted to beat during his three year run, as he also does with Beal.  He humanizes these professionals rather than allowing them to remain the cold, calculating robots that they may appear to be on television.

Things I didn't enjoy:  The epilogue makes Beal a sympathy figure.  Following his exploits in Vegas, the professionals (quite possibly misquoted by the media) took it upon themselves to belittle Beal, despite taking a significant chuck of change over the three years.  I found it hard to find any sympathy for a man who knew the risks of playing the biggest cash games in the history of the game against people who's job it was to win money from other people
