We see a phrase a lot when we visit how-to sites for writers. World building. By this, we mean the setting, the characters, and everything else where our story will occur. For me, this often means maps, memories and visits, since I write about where I live. But if you'd like to see exactly what "world building" means, head down to your local library and grab SALEM'S LOT by Stephen King. 

Yeah, that's right, I'm reviewing a book by Stephen King. As if his career really needs my help. 

(I bought my copy at Foreign Language Bookstore on Yanan Lu in Hangzhou, with a new introduction that is a pleasure to read, but I mentioned the library to save you some money.) 

When Stephen King mania first gripped the English-speaking world, I missed it. I saw the film of CARRIE and hated it. Years later, at a guard desk on a long shift, scheduled so suddenly that I hadn't had a chance to visit the library, I read what was in the desk instead. THINNER. If I were Stephen King, I'd have put a pen name on that crap as well. 

One of King's fans brought me around. She recommended THE SHINING. Of course I thought of that Kubrick/Nicholson travesty. No no, she said, read the book. It's much different. Yes, it is. It's fantastic for its perceptiveness. Next up, PET SEMATARY, which scared the crap out of me. And that, my friends, is not easy. 

ON WRITING. I've gushed about that enough times. The films STAND BY ME and THE APT PUPIL. So, in the end, I appreciate King and forgive him for CARRIE, and I think he's forgiven himself. We won't talk about the Richard Bachman alias, although the film of THE RUNNING MAN was fun in a stupid sort of way. 

SALEM'S LOT. King's second book, and perhaps it should have been his first. I've been in China since 1999. If I ever want to visit a town in the US, I don't need a plane ticket. I can just real SALEM'S LOT. Consider it a clinic on world building. These are the places and the people I left behind, right there, recorded by a master. Well, except for the vampire. I don't recall seeing him in Watha. Maybe he moved into my old house. 

Actually, that's Stephen King right there. He creates an entirely real world, then throws in something unusual because it makes the story move and because he just thinks it's cool. A vampire here, a rabid dog there, a mind reader over there, a UFO crashing into Hickville... 

Nobody has defended Stephen King by mentioning that William Shakespeare trucked heavily with ghosts and witches and prophesies in his stories, so I'll limit myself to a single sentence. 

I believe that, just as I studied Mary Shelley's FRANKENSTEIN in a Literature class, one day students will study Stephen King. Just nothing about cars that come to life, because those stories really suck. I will accuse Stephen King of being uneven, and he explains why in ON WRITING. But at his best, I recommend him highly. 

Oh, and here's a weird bit of trivia. I recognized the scene on page 50. Nothing before it, nothing after it, just that one bit. So I at least began reading this book. Probably at a guard desk. Tampa, Florida, has excellent libraries. At my guard desk, when I wasn't writing, I was getting drunk on literature, and I can't possibly remember it all. But I think SALEM'S LOT by Stephen King plus THE THANATOS SYNDROME by Walker Percy spurred me to write THE DEMONS WITHIN, which I later threw out but which gave DESCENT INTO MADNESS its back story. 

(For Madman trivia buffs: Terrence and Sandra Howell once had their own novel. It really sucked. Terrence had his own novel 15 years before that. It also sucked. He's a composite of two classmates, Terrence Cram and Ricky Howell, so I'm glad he finally showed up in some form.) 

In ON WRITING, Stephen King tells us that he was so drunk and stoned at one point that he can't remember writing some of his books. It seems I was so high on literature at one point that I forgot entire books I read, including SALEM'S LOT. So, I guess that getting old does have its advantages. 
