This book explains how racial segregation in the public schools has been getting worse and why that is a problem.  If children interact with other races at a young age, they're less likely to have racist ideas as adults.  When people extol the legal and political victories that allowed integrated schools, Kozol finds it ironic because even though apartheid is not the law, current public policy discourages integration.  Well-meaning parents in affluent school districts lobby against any zoning change that would include children from poorer areas.  The result is that school districts are unintentionally set up to segregate the poor from the middle class and dark-skinned from the ligher-skinned.  This makes our society seem horribly unfair to the children going through the segregated, inferior schools. 

Policy makers put forth initiatives to measure the performance of the poorer schools.  Improving those schools would require, among other things, money.  It is easier for policy makers to find support for tough standards than for government money to bring those schools up to the standards.  Kozol says this is analogous to having the children play competitive sports with one team having vastly inferior equipment.  Parents would feel compelled either to equalize the teams' level of equipment or not to have the mismatched teams play against one another.  Yet this is precisely what happens when poorer schools are asked to compete against well funded schools on high-stakes tests.

I don't like how Kozol seems to be critical of the idea of these high-stakes tests.  It's better to know than to remain in ignorance just hoping that poorer schools are equal.  The stress that teachers and students feel around the tests are part of life.  Kozol says in poor schools administrators often eliminate all fun and independent thought so they can focus on test scores.  There must be a way to continue testing without turning the militaristic methods described in the book.

I have a hard time understanding the indignation Kozol feels toward affluent areas where parents put up their own money to improve the schools.  It certainly would be better if they put up money for other schools too, but people putting extra money toward anyone's education is a good thing.  Kozol seems terrible indignant that rich have more access than the poor, but unfortunately that condition will exist until we reach utopia.  

Kozol doesn't make clear what his solution to improve the schools would be.  Poor children definitely need more money spent on education, but I am against the government doing the spending.  I would rather see generous government subsidies for the poor to buy their own education.  I wish he had addressed the counter arguments to vouchers.  While vouchers would be far from utopia, they would provide a way out for some of the poor students he interviews who want liberal academic classes but are pushed into trade classes by their schools.  

The material in this book is probably old news to people in the education industry, but it is eye-opening to people like me who work in other fields and wrongly assume that education for the poor has improved greatly since the civil rights movement of the 60s
