In this memoir Mary McCarthy's childhood appears to be marked by two contradictory principles: orphanhood and board study at a Catholic convent. Convent life appears to her as a revelation of the aristocratic principle in life. The Catholic nuncs she encounters are dazzling intellectuals, preoccupied by themes such as purification through sin and the fate of the romantics. The identification of the nuns with the romantics is stressed, and is based on their shared antimodern nonconformity, the spirit of loss and failure flickering at the side of the happy, straight road of Protestant civics. The exact opposite of the romance of Catholicism lies in the prototype exemplified by Uncle Myers, the "rootless municipalized man who finds his plasures in the handouts or overflow of an industrial civilization." The purposeless emptiness of modern municipal life is contrasted with the beautiful heroics of medieval European history. 

Yet from the pretty orderliness among the girls at the convent isnot only derived romance, but at times also misunderstanding. When Mary rehearses a "loss of faith" drama to gain popularity, her faked doubts lead to a real breach of faith: "Why can't the universe be self-sufficient?" In order not to disturb the expectations of the nuns, she will be forced to fake her period. The limits between the real and the pretended, both spiritual and organic, seem troublesome inside the convent. 

Mary McCarthy's love of Latin language and culture came about at college, where she represented the opposing forces of law and anarchy in the classic play "Marcus Tullius" as a reflection of her own mixed heritage. To her surprise, though, she sides with the Protestant, "law and order" Preston side of her family, which is hardly shocking to us if we take into account the abusive, stingy character of the McCarthys she knew: "The injustices my brothers and I had suffered in our childhood had made me a rebel against authority, but they had also prepared me to fall in love with justice, the first time I encountered it."

As a minute analysis of a developing psychology, we find in Mary McCarthy's memoir a description of her central conflict betwen that which she can give and that which her community needs and expects. Either with the nuns at the convent, at the boarding school before graduation or with her Protestant relatives, Mary finds the need to take refuge in pretension and lying so as to repeatedly restore the precarious balances of peace of the communities she seeks to inhabit. From this psychological need of absolute, unconditional integration we can perhaps trace the origins of her vocation as a novelist: "My whole life was a lie, it often appeared to me, from beginning to end, for if I was wilder than my family knew, I was far tamer than my friends could imagine, and with them, too, as with my family, I was constantly making up stories..." In her view this dilemma is also a designing feature of adult life, or "the trap of adult life in which you are held, wriggling, powerless to act because you can see both sides.
