The older I get, the more interested I am in hearing both sides of a story.  My political bent has always been to the left and in earlier years, I probably would have dismissed a book like this, to my own detriment.

Do As I Say (Not As I Do) is an extremely well-written, well researched expose of some of the top Liberal players today.  Schweitzer criticizes Ted Kennedy, Noam Chomsky, Gloria Steinem, Michael Moore and others not so much for what they believe in, but rather for the great disparity between what they espouse and what they actually practice.

I was shocked to hear how badly Ralph Nader treated his employees -- so much so that I removed links from my web site to his.  It's one thing to be dedicated to a cause and to hope and expect passion from your employees; it's quite another to work them to the bone and not pay a decent wage, especially if you tout yourself as a great union supporter.

Likewise, to read about Chomsky's investments in oil and the way that he lives partially off money that he received working on Pentagon contracts; that Michael Moore doesn't really live in Flint, Michigan and raised his speaking fee after 9/11 (!!!); and that all of the big, so-called supporters of income redistribution, only believe that *other people's* income should be affected, not theirs, was quite disheartening.

It made me think of the song by the late Phil Ochs called 
"Love Me, Love Me, Love Me, I'm a Liberal."  That tune was basically about people who pretended to be for Civil Rights in public but freaked out when their daughters brought home a black man and other such hypocrisies.

I'm not a conservative but I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It was an eye-opener and a message that all of us should think twice before blindly following leaders (" Don't follow leaders and watch your parking meters.")  The old-time folk singers sure had it right!

One catch-22 is that many of those who started out as young rebels and became famous, also became wealthy as a result.  This took them right out of the working class and into the highest earning echelon.  From there, it's pretty hard to argue about how oppressive capitalism is.

Sigridma
