I want to second the point made by several other reviewers that non-Christians can get a lot out of this book if they remember that Ritchie's identifying his spiritual guide as Jesus is a function of his upbringing, and not something they have to take as literal. As pointed out in compendiums of NDE's, Christians often identify this guide as Jesus, Jews as an angel, etc. 

Ritchie's goal does not appear to be to convert non-Christians to Christianity other than in the sense of loving all other human beings, a noble goal for any religion or philosophy. In fact, after he is brought back to life and misses what he calls the Christ of his NDE, Ritchie looks for that same unconditional love in other humans that he meets. The fact that one of several such Christ-incarnations (as Ritchie calls them) is a Jewish survivor of a concentration camp is evidence that Ritchie's Christianity is not the un-Christian brand that is all too prevelant. Anyone needing further evidence can turn to Ritchie's second book, "Ordered to Return," where he refers to the audacity of certain Christians to assert that God hates homosexuals. Clearly, Ritchie's loving God (or Christ in Ritchie's words) has no limits in His love. That second book also attempts to counteract the way some supposed Christians have tried to take Ritchie's experience and use it in unchristian ways.

I first read "Return From Tomorrow" about fifteen years ago and have re-read it about five times since. Each time, I find something valuable that I missed on prior readings or needed to be reminded of. And, like a number of other reviewers, I keep extra copies to lend or give to people.

As to the issue brought up by one other reviewer that some of Ritchie's facts seem incorrect (no concentration camp where he was stationed, a photo vs. a drawing in a magazine), I don't doubt that is the case. Ritchie is human and relating events of long ago. But the places where Ritchie says "it was so different from what I expected and had been taught" makes me believe that he is trying his hardest to be honest. In any event, the real test is whether reading this book helps you be a better human being. In my case, the answer is a resounding YES
