Over the last few years, corporate performance has taken a back seat to corporate governance.  With every scandal that rocks Wall Street; Enron, Adelphia, Anderson, and WorldCom to name a few, issues like ethics, morals and social responsibility are plastered on the top of the fold of rags ranging from the NY Times to the Morgan City Daily Review.  Through interviews with some of the world's most respected CEO's, Adrian Gostick and Dana Telford's book "The Integrity Advantage" sheds an interesting perspective of corporate integrity and how this integrity, in fact, is truly a competitive advantage.  The authors describe ten characteristics that are consistently displayed by people with integrity.  Although none of these are compelling and shed new light on integrity, the authors emphasize the importance through the experience of the CEO's and demonstrate how incremental improvements in each one develops the reader's decision making enhancing their own reputation of integrity.  It would seem, on the surface that integrity is an easy concept to understand and apply.  However, the NIKE example speaks to how this is not the case.  Although conceptually we can grasp integrity and how this may, in fact, be a competitive advantage, what the book does not address is how it fits within the construct of social responsibility.  In other words, is integrity as described in the book, aligned with Milton Friedman and Elaine Sternberg's view of corporate responsibility?  Or does it follow the framework put forth by Elizabeth Anderson and R. Edward Freeman?  I am inclined to believe the spirit of the book falls somewhere in the middle.  The book quotes some of the most successful smartest CEO's in the world.  And although social responsibility and certainly integrity are of primary concern, each one of these individuals has a profit motive for being in business.  Otherwise, they would be heading up a nonprofit organization.  It seems to me these two, integrity and having a profit motive should not be mutually exclusive.  Although as Friedman states, social responsibility as a motivating factor in decision making is in fact taxing the shareholders of whom you have a fiduciary responsibility to act in their best interest.  As Sternberg states, you have to be able to differentiate between business and other institutions.  There should be a distinct line, roadmap if you will, to address both, but make no doubt that the business is the first and foremost responsibility of the executive.  That said, there is something to be said of Anderson's and to some degree Freeman's views of social responsibility.  The corporation should consider and behave in a way that considers both benefits and consequences to its stakeholders.  This does not mean that it should act to promote the greatest benefit to its stakeholders, in doing so it ignores the aforementioned fiduciary responsibility.  In my humble opinion Freeman is wrong, they do not have nor should have legal "requirements" to do so.  What should drive their stakeholder responsibility is their personal integrity, which gets us back to the book.  One could argue that had Phil Knight, or any other of these executives that have recently fallen from grace, pursued the steps in the book they could have avoided the problems they faced.  In the end, integrity is indeed a critical success factor that could be used to leverage the corporation and become a competitive advantage.  And integrity along with the profit motive should not be viewed as mutually exclusive.  However, one should never forget the responsibility to the shareholder and that this responsibility should serve as guidance with integrity as the cornerstone in every leaders and employees decision making process
