Back pain . . . if you've had it or do have it (or know somebody who 
has it), you must make yourself familiar with the work of Dr. John 
Sarno . . . he wrote my all-time favorite book on the subject, HEALING 
BACK PAIN, that helped me walk again . . . at the time, I read it, I 
was suffering from a herniated disc and in really bad shape . . . within 
a few days, I was up and about--and have never had problems since.

I then read and enjoyed his follow-up effort, THE MINDBODY 
PRESCRIPTION, and was equally impressed . . . this one got me 
realizing that the mind can affect more than just problems in the 
back area; it also can be the cause of carpel tunnel syndrome and 
a whole host of other ailments involving the neck and shoulders.

Sarno's latest book, THE DIVIDED MIND, is another winner . . . it is
a bit more technical than his earlier efforts, though that said, I found his
discussion of the views of Freud and others quote interesting . . . I also 
liked how he supplemented this with views expressed by several 
current practitioners.

In addition, he addresses the entire range of psychosomatic (or 
mindbody) disorders, including common stomach and bowel 
conditions, skin disorders and even headaches . . . in his view, 
the crucial interaction between the generally reasonable, rational 
and moral conscious mind and the repressed feelings of emotional 
pain, hurt, sadness, and anger appears to be the basis for 
mindbody disorders.

There were several memorable tidbits from the book; among them: 
* The enormity of the problem is illustrated by an article that
appeared in the business section of THE NEW YORK TIMES
on December 31, 2003. It described how one such 
expensive treatment, spinal fusion, is being widely performed
despite the lack of evidence that it has any value whatsoever.

The article went on to point out that the doctors, hospitals,
and manufacturers of the hardware used in these procedures
all have a financial stake in the performance of this operation.
That national bill for its hardware alone has soared to $2.5 
billion a year. What the cost of treatment must be staggers
the imagination. My medical school professors would be
shocked and horrified at what has happened to medical
practice. The marketplace and economics factors have taken
over.  

* It is quite remarkable that I have been unable to find a single
mention in the medical literature questioning the reason for
these epidemics. And one never gets a reasonable answer
when one asks, Why is it that the millions of men and women
who pounded typewriters since the beginning of the twentieth
century never developed CTS? Again, medicine bears the 
responsibility for these epidemics on two counts: first, by
failing to make the correct diagnosis, and then by attributing
the severity and long-term nature of symptoms. This is 
important because it supports the mind's strategy, which is to
distract attention from what is going on in the unconscious mind
and focus it on a body symptom. By so doing it perpetuates the
process. The sad reality is that most of the people suffering from
conditions like chronic pain, fibromyalgia, and CTS will not accept
a psychosomatic diagnosis.  

And this one I especially liked:
* So, whenever someone confronts their fear, resumes their activity,
and feels fine, I tell them to celebrate. CELEBRATE! I tell them to 
talk to their brain--tell themselves that they are fine! There cannot
be a physical problem if they were able to do the activity without
difficulty. Celebrating is an important way to reprogram the mind. It
helps condition you to think differently about your body and will help
you immeasurably to undo the old conditioning and forget all that
came before.

Do yourself a favor . . . if you or anybody you know has ever had
problems with your back or anything related (including various
muscular pain), buy them THE DIVIDED MIND and his earlier
books, too . . . you will not be forgotten
