Pat's book takes us through the "modern" pushrod V8s of small and big block Ford engines.  It starts with a discussion of the Windsor small blocks from 289-351W with mentions of the 260, though this section focuses on the "6-bolt" bellhousing SBFs.

It moves on to a detailed discussion of the FE and all of the cool, neat pieces that were prevalent before most of us were born or at least long before we were of driving age.  It is worth the asking price alone to drool over the photos of the tunnel port FE heads and dual quad intake manifolds of the mid 60s and "Thunderbolt" 427s of the era.

The book moves gracefully to the killer Cleveland, the small block that dominated Pro Stock in the 70s.  This engine with its massive ports owned the SBC and forever cast the world's attention to the Cleveland name as being synonymous with high performance.  Even today, companies like Edelbrock are producing new aluminum castings of Cleveland-style cylinder heads for hot rodders because of the vitality the canted valve small block delivers.

The next section moves into the 385 big block series.  These, with the Windsors, continue to prove to be the most popular "rebuilder" engines for performance applications.

Pat's book includes a portion of each engine family section devoted to a pictorial build-up of a common member of the family.  The Windsor has a potent 302, the FE has a nifty 427, the Cleveland has a Pantera owner's 351C and the 385-series has a 460 destined for a boat.  Each engine build-up is displayed in a series of sequential photos that highlight areas of special interest or needing special attention.

The shortcomings of this book is that, like these engines, they are rather outdated.  Many of the part numbers are unobtainable except through esoteric sources and the occasional find on eBay.  This does not detract from the content of the book, but does date it somewhat.  I feel that it gives an accounting of the historical relevance of these engines in the years when they were being produced, but also carries forward the fact that they are still amazing sources of "Total Performance" in a period where cars are front-wheel driven and a 3.0L V6 is a "big" engine.

The book has enough photos of real, historical significance to make any Ford lover enjoy coughing up the bread to purchase it, but of much more importance is, IMO, the tables researched by Pat that include production tolerances, engine building specifications and the racing/high performance clearances, torque tables and blueprint specifications found within its pages.  Simple things like firing orders, rod lengths, valve diameters and stem lengths are found for your engine family in one convenient source.

My copy of this book is well worn.  I've owned it for years and regularly access it.  The only other book that I have that is this close at hand is a dictionary.  In frankness, I'd rate it 3 stars for being dated, 4 stars for its overall content, presentation and useful information and I'd rate it a full five stars for any Ford engine lover out there who loves the feel of a pushrod V8 torquing the axles off of a full bodied Ford car, truck or other vehicle.

A revision of this book would do well to include information on currently available stroker crankshafts and other relevant parts combinations, but this one is a keeper all by itself.

Take Care.

Rob
