This book provides step-by-step guidance in starting an online retail business. There is a ton of information crammed into this book which is divided into six sections and many chapters:

1. In Business, Preparation is Everything
2. Getting Your Business Online
3. An Internet Presence for Existing and New Businesses
4. Promoting Your Site
5. Improving and Analyzing Your Site
6. The Experts Speak

As someone who has read many books on virtual businesses, online presences, Internet marketing, and online retailing I could appreciate all that the author covers in this book. Unfortunately I doubt someone with my background is the intended audience for this book. I think someone with less knowledge on the subject would be the person to want to read this book. And such a person is probably going to be disappointed with it.

I found the book to emphasize online retail businesses to the exclusion of online service businesses. That's fine and dandy if the title of the book had specified that the material related to "Online Retail Businesses." There was a lot of talk devoted to shopping cart aspects of Web sites and to eBay topics. If I wanted to read about eBay, then I would have picked up an eBay book.

My favorite part of the book was where the author at page 96 told me about how to easily add shopping cart functionality to a Web site that I had built using Microsoft Frontpage. Supposedly there is an outfit called Richmedia Tech that provides help in doing that.

The slant on the type of business the author was talking about in his book showed itself particularly in Section 4 regarding how to promote your Web site. There was no mention of writing articles, giving seminars, or becoming a public speaker which are normal ways to promote a Web site that helps market services rather than products.

If you are planning to use eBay in your business in ANY way, then I highly recommend you get a copy of this book. It is a great supplement to any reading you do on the subject of eBay. However, if your business idea or existing business has no need for an online retail storefront, then skip this book. There are other books available that are more on point for you to read. 4 stars
