Without a firm line on Thomas Merton, one may initially wonder why his autobiographical tale possesses more merit than anyone elses.  He, like countless others, led a life of profligacy consumed by the demands of self-gratification.  He like countless others, afforded the material world far more of himself than it deserved.  And, he, like *all* others, did not innately recognize the roots of true happiness.  So, how is Thomas Merton different?  

Well, for starters, he did something about it.

How many times have men and women stopped to wonder whether the quest for material gain is all that a life can offer?  And how many times have men and women acknowledged the gnawing pit in their stomach with the suspicion that it can't possibly be?  More importantly, however, who among us has been courageous enough to do something about it?  Merton's journey from profligate young man to a member of the Trappist order cannot be everyone's response to temporal challenge, but it was a natural transition for him and one by which we all can profit. 

The Seven Storey Mountain is only part autobiography for it is well-supported by spiritual pillars.  It is the story of one man's trek to God, but certainly not of one man's temptations.  We all face the paradox.  We can strive for material gain, we can bend to self-gratification, but in the end we find that the results of such efforts fall short of true contentment.  Merton's personal solution speaks volumes to the typical suburban striver and, though it may not vault one towards the monastery, gives the reflective reader reason to pause.  It, perhaps, illuminates the daily routine of material gain for what it is:  gain for gain's sake.  And it may inform us that there is more to this life than first meets the eye.  At the very least it should inform us to look for what is not readily evident, to look further down the road and, perhaps, to both sides.  

The Seven Storey Mountain is a journey unto itself and the patient reader will reap it's rewards.  I am no mystical, New Age daydreamer, but I've learned that cold pragmatism will not suffice to furnish a life well-lived and well-loved. Thomas Merton addressed these issues with grace and humility; two virtues from which we all could benefit more.  5 stars.

