"All the greatest things we know have come from neurotics. It is they and they only who have founded religious groups and created great works of art." So Marcel Proust has a character comment in "Le C?t? de Guermantes", the third novel in his seven-novel masterpiece "Remembrance of Things Past". The orginal French title "A la Recherche du Temps Perdu" is evidently impossible to translate literally, but this English title is the one preferred by the translator C.K Scott Moncrieff. That Proust himself was a neurotic or at least neurasthenic is generally accepted. A chronic invalid, he retired from the world at the age of 35. Living alone and asthmatic, he wrote and wrote and wrote this epic of the Belle Epoque, filling it with complex and contradictory characters. Many are minor, introduced and then never met again, others disappear for hundreds of pages before suddenly re-appearing. The book is written in the first person singular, and in "La Prisonni?re" Proust finally admits that the narrator's Christian name is Marcel. Relationships become complicated, and occasionally the translator will point out to the reader the mistakes that Proust has made in his cross-referencing. A long alphabetical list of characters can be found on line, but prenez garde! the list is full of spoilers. Primarily, the novels reflect the social milieu of the late 19th Century, ending after World War I, the endless matin?es, th?s, and soir?es that figured so importantly in the existence of an indolent class. (It is assumed the narrator is independently wealthy: in "Albertine Disparue" he casually mentions ordering a yacht and a Rolls Royce for Albertine.) In this class the season is spoiled if one is not invited to sit in the Duchesse's box at the theatre and a whole year is ruined if one is snubbed at the Comtesse's afternoon social. Proust descibes these atmospheres in intense and intimate detail, whether it be a quiet street in Combray or a house of ill repute in Paris. Amazingly, the narrator remarks in "Sodome et Gomorrhe": "I have not an observant mind." (Hein!?) It is beginning with "Sodome et Gomorrhe" that the narrator becomes morbidly preoccupied with the homoerotic elements of the French monde and demimonde. After he begins chasing the elusive Albertine, he suspects that she is Sapphic and torments himself that she herself is chasing other girls. (His long courtship of Albertine reflects Swann's courting of the demimondaine Odette in the earlier "Du C?t? de Chez Swann". Gilberte, the daughter of Swann and Odette, has been the narrator's childhood petite amie; and she herself marries the narrator's -- well, yes, it does become labyrinthine.) The long story's most memorable and most mysterious character is the Baron de Charlus, and it is his sudden assignation with the tailor Jupien that alerts the narrator to the Parisian nether world. Charlus becomes involved with a handsome young violinist Charles Morel, a sexual id?e fixe, even for the novel's most macho character. All this distresses the narrator exceedingly (one begins to suspect he doth protest too much) and he takes a moralistic tone. However, it is the narrator who, in "Albertine Disparue", picks up a little girl off the street and takes her home, an indiscretion which earns him a visit from the S?ret?. As for Charlus, he goes from being one of Odette's early "sponsors" to being willingly whipped by mercenary stable boys. These changes would strain the imagination except that they happen over hundreds of pages; and, of course, Proust has a strong sense of psychological development, be it a major character like Albertine or a minor character like Aim?, the headwaiter at Balbec, who serves table in a Parisian restaurant with a "modest brilliance", causing an argument between Saint-Loup and his mistress. Throughout the quiet turmoil of these various stories, the reader is fascinated. He turns page after unindented page, nothing much happens, and yet he keeps on reading. Admirers of W Somerset Maugham will realize here that I'm paraphrasing Maugham's remarks on Jane Austen in his great essay on "Pride and Prejudice", and there's a surprising resemblance between Austen and Proust. Would I read "Remembrance of Things Past" again? Not the way I did this time, but I enjoy re-reading sections here and there, a dinner at the Verdurins or the narrator's visit to Venice. "Remembrance of Things Past" is a world in itself, a world every serious reader should explore. Unfortunately, I have learned that Amazon.com cannot handle French accent marks, so we're left with lots of question marks. And I thought this was an international forum.        
