Brent is a high school junior in a brand-new school.  He has experience moving around--his father's job has moved them a lot in the past few years, but Brent always finds the transition difficult.  He already has developed a huge crush on a girl at his new school, Brianna, and is trying to find some way to get her to like him, too.  He thinks that the party he is preparing to go to at the beginning of the book may be the perfect opportunity to get to know her a little better.

The party, though, is a disaster from the start.  Brent is dressed all wrong and is totally out of place.  He drinks more than he should, and when he approaches Brianna, she screams at him to leave her alone and stop following her.  Everyone at the party hears.  Miserable, Brent gets into his car and drives off.  He is drunk and depressed and so he decides to commit suicide.  He closes his eyes and takes his hands off the wheel.

Brent does get into a car accident, but he is not the one to die.  He has minor injuries but the accident kills an eighteen-year-old girl named Lea.  Brent feels he is deserving of whatever punishment Lea's family wants him to have.  When he meets with Lea's mother, she assigns him a task.  She tells him that Lea's grandfather used to make her toys, and her favorites were wooden whirligigs (pieces of wood with propellers attached that blow in the wind to make other parts move in some way) with her face on them.  Lea's mother wants Brent to travel across the country and build a whirligig with Lea's face on it for each corner of the United States: Washington, California, Florida and Maine.  People will see them and Lea's face will make them smile.

Over the course of Brent's trip, he learns to forgive himself for what he has done.  His whirligigs, too, do the job they were designed to do.  Interspersed with Brent's story are tales of people whose lives have been affected by the whirligigs Brent has built.

I liked the spiritual aspect of this book and the journey Brent goes on, mentally as well as physically, in order to come to terms with himself.  I thought, though, that there should have been much harsher consequences for killing someone, even if that death was mostly accidental
