Agents Under Fire defends a robust notion of intelligent agency and intentionality against eliminative and naturalistic alternatives.  Angus Menuge thus demonstrates the interconnection between philosophy of mind and intelligent design.  

Firstly, Menuge analyzes intelligent agents to see what they do when they produce designs.  For example, Menuge observes that intelligent agents "exhibit intentionality" with "reasons for action" which are "reasons for the individual to do" that action. (pg. 27)

Menuge later tackles Behe's irreducible complexity arguments by arguing that they challenge reductionism in biology.  In particular Menuge tackles head-on the objection that irreducible complexity can be produced via exaptation (i.e., co-option).  Menuge finds five problems that co-optational-based accounts of the origin of irreducible complexity cannot overcome: 

"For a working flagellum to be built by exaptation, the five following conditions would all have to be met:
"C1: Availability. Among the parts available for recruitment to form the flagellum, there would need to be ones capable of performing the highly specialized tasks of paddle, rotor, and motor, even though all of these items serve some other function or no function. 
"C2: Synchronization.  The availability of these parts would have to be synchronized so that at some point, either individually or in combination, they are all available at the same time.
"C3: Localization. The selected parts must all be made available at the same `construction site,' perhaps not simultaneously but certainly at the time they are needed.
"C4: Coordination.  The parts must be coordinated in just the right way: even if all of the parts of a flagellum are available at the right time, it is clear that the majority of ways of assembling them will be non-functional or irrelevant.
"C5: Interface compatibility. The parts must be mutually compatible, that is, `well-matched' and capable of properly `interacting': even if a paddle, rotor, and motor are put together in the right order, they also need to interface correctly." (pg. 104-105)

Menuge also forays into Darwinian explanations for the origin of mind.  According to Menuge, the Darwinian psychology produced by Dawkins, Dennett, and Pinker is unable to explain the integration, unity, direction, and reliability of rational thought.  For example, "if it is assumed that the human brain evolved gradually from an ape's brain, then the vastly superior psychological ability of the former would require a long and gradual series of changes resulting in a much more complex brain." (pg. 135)  But since "at the anatomical level, human brains are very much like ape brains" Menuge argues that "`relatively small alterations of brain structure must have produced very large behavioral discontinuities in the transition from the ancestral apes to us.'" (pg. 135, quoting Fodor)  Menuge further concludes that "[i]f that is the case, cognitive capacities are not Darwinian adaptations that developed gradually" but are either "remarkable flukes of nature, by-products of changes that were selected for other reasons" or, as Menuge believes, they "require some nonnatural explanation." (pg. 135)

Drawing on his experience as both a philosopher and computer scientist, Menuge shows the reader that the materialist's attempts to rid science of all commitment to teleology can only result in incoherence.  Instead Menuge presents his own unique argument for the legitimacy of intelligent design.  
