A Time to Kill is most definitely head and shoulders above the previous six "A Time To" novels. The book is dense, but also moves at a lightening quick pace.

In many ways, A Time to Kill is more how I have always envisioned Trek: decisions made at the very top and bottom of the chain of command have repercussions upon each other and create a more epic feelings. The leaders of other galactic empires have been important characters in Trek. Why hasn't the Federation president? Here we finally get to see how the Federation works from the top executive down to the lowest noncoms onboard the Enterprise.

The story itself is just far more large-scale and important than I've considered the stories at the center of the previous "A Time To" books. Those felt like they were spinning their wheels. A Time to Kill hits the ground running. The interstellar incident created on Tezwa was endlessly fascinating and each side's reaction and behavior was what we would expect. The book culminates in a heavy dose of covert ops and Mack (and editors) effortless cross-cuts between them to keep a steady pace.

Continuity bits were sprinkled about to create just the right amount of effect to remind us when the books are specifically taking place. Character work is across the board pretty good. I especially like Data's conundrum of trying to remember emotion as if from a dream. The plot seamlessly works in Will Riker's growth from throughout the "A Time To" series and doesn't call attention to itself.  Like when it becomes readily apparent that Will just may be feed up with away missions and is all the more incentive to move over to the Titan. However, Christine Vale (and now Jim Peart) still draw a complete blank in my mental picture beyond their dedication to the job.

There's very little to nitpick in the book. One scene that sort of stood out for me was how the Enterprise seemed to effortlessly enter the Tezwan atmosphere and fly right over the city. Never got the impression before that the Sovereign's could fly so low to a planet surface. Secondly, "scanning for bio-signs" of particular species has become standard procedure anymore, so I'm curious as to why they couldn't just scan for Riker when he didn't check in and beam him up.  

Probably best of all about A Time to Kill is that it's probably the first "A Time To" book that also felt pretty self-contained and could be read on its own. The other books have not felt that way. 

Now all that said...there is the discouraging trend in Trek literature lately to make the Trek universe as grungy and depressing as real life that seems so overt and self-conscious as to border on exploitation.  There's a heavy dose of cynicism in the latter "A Time To" books where the tiresome cliche of government corruption makes the Federation just as villainous as the Romulans or whomever.  The corrupt admiralty was already a worn out cliche in the Trek universe, so I guess the writers and editors have decided to move on up the chain of command.  So while I can really enjoy the book on its own, I really don't like the pattern that A Time to Kill started that progressed in the sequel. 
