In THE MILL ON THE FLOSS, George Eliot writes of her heroine Maggie Tulliver in such a way that autobiography seems inevitable.   Even had Eliot not made a secret of the nearly one to one relationship between her and Maggie, the connection is too obvious to ignore.  In George Eliot's personal life, she had an ongoing dispute with her brother that so distressed her that the only way to resolve it was in her fiction.  So Maggie spends nearly the entire novel trying to prove her unselfish love to her brother Tom who refuses to see the good in Maggie until the highly controversial ending in which Maggie nobly risks her life to convince Tom that her love for him is unsullied.  However much one sees of Eliot in Maggie, Maggie is still a fully-rounded individual whom Eliot has chosen to flesh out in a manner that was unheard of for her time.  In presenting the character of Maggie, as well as the others, Eliot presents the unfolding of their distinct personalities against the backdrop of their respective social milieus.  Eliot suggests that society has a definite impact on the way each character develops. For Eliot, character is formed partly by his or her environment and exhibited heavily in the ways that she chooses to allow each character to act in their homes, their fields, and their workplaces.  

Eliot traces a gradual connection between theme and character.  Since environment is one of the two primary factors that impact on the push-pull connection between theme and character, she is careful to delineate early on that the same environment that houses Maggie and Tom nevertheless pushes each to a sociological fork in the road from which each takes a divergent turn. This divergence leads to the book's primary theme: the evolving nature between brother and sister is both cause and effect of the ultimate maritime tragedy that concludes the book.  Maggie, even as a young child, is seen as perpetually in conflict, the causes of which are beyond her control.  Maggie has an internal conflict in that she is often called to make a choice between that which her heart calls for (say, her love for Stephen Guest) and that which her duty forbids (the vast class gap between the two that forbids a relation). Maggie also has a direct conflict with Tom, whose brutishness and inexplicable meanness toward her impel both toward the book's tragic close.  Finally, she has an ongoing conflict with society at large, symbolized by a collective mass of family, friends, lovers, and a cobwebbery of implicit rules that Maggie breaks unwittingly and to tragic effect.

The ending of THE MILL OF THE FLOSS has created a controversy that has lingered from Eliot's day to ours. When Maggie chooses to literally die with Tom than to live without him, the reader is faced with passing judgment on its credibility.  Has Eliot taken the cheap way out and sought the conventionally tragic ending of the sentimental Victorian novel?  Or is Maggie's final act of unselfishness to be viewed through the lens of autobiography in which the author is vicariously healing the rift between her and her real life brother with the sacrifice of Maggie for her fictional one?  The question was raised then and is often raised now with no resolution. What remains is a novel whose ongoing charm lies in its depiction of a style of life that was seen as far removed even in Eliot's day and for which retains a nostalgic charm that the passing of the centuries cannot lessen.
