The myths we create about our past to edify our young and swell our national pride are nearly always noble and simple. History is much messier, often complicating our myths with inconvenient facts that ruin their simplicity and muddy their nobility. Simon Schama's book `Rough Crossings' is a case in point. It is the story of the slaves of the American patriots who were not included in the liberty that their masters fought for, or in the stirring phrases of the Declaration of Independence - slaves whose only path to liberty was to take up arms and fight alongside the British against their masters, and against the cause of a liberty that would keep them in bondage. It is a most interesting and disturbing story that neither begins nor ends with the American Revolution. 

`Rough Crossings' actually contains three interlocking stories. It tells the story of Granville Sharp and Britain's abolitionist movement, both before and after the Revolution. It relates the history of the slaves seeking their freedom by fighting for Britain in the Revolution, and finally, follows the fate of those freed slaves after the Revolution, first to Nova Scotia and London, and later to a colony in Sierra Leone. While the details of the three tales often widely diverge, each is necessary to explain the others, and work together as a greater whole. And while the action of the slaves in the Revolution serves as a catalyst for the story, it receives less attention than does the story of the work toward abolition in Britain or the post war fate of the slaves freed by their service for Britain. 

I found `Rough Crossings to be fascinating but uneven. At times it was a gripping, page-turning read, but it could abruptly shift into a numbing morass of plodding detail. Schama would often drop the thread of one story, move on to another matter, and not return to pick up the dropped thread for many, many pages, creating a disjointed reading experience. He was at his best when writing about such intriguing characters as Granville Sharp, the gentleman musician who made the abolition of slavery in Britain his life's work; Lieutenant John Clarkson, the young navel officer who became the determined protector of the rights of the freed slaves and the governor of their colony in Sierra Leone; or Thomas Peters, freed slave and sergeant in the British Black Pioneers who became a impassioned advocate for his people. It is these and other fascinating characters into whom Schama breaths such life that are the heart of his book, and the best argument for reading it. `Rough Crossing' is history as important as it is neglected. I recommend it both to illuminate the dark, neglected aspects of the history of the American Revolution, and as an intriguing history of British abolition. 

Theo Logos


