I constantly search for beautiful books to develop my children's minds, souls, and taste for literature and thinking.  There is a struggle for every parent to find books during the period occurring AFTER the child has learned the mechanics of reading and BEFORE the child can read more than the chapter book pablum churned out by most educational houses and curriculum providers.  It seems now the "hook" given to young children is  magic and witchcraft lore spawned by the Harry Potter books - but that is another topic entirely.

I have a deep appreciation for beautiful, well-chosen words.  Very few books are rightly called "literature,"  but this book is one of them.  Each story is written beautifully and powerfully, obviously from the pen of a great master.  The author brings out the details of appearance, background and psyche and the stories resonate with beauty and truth.

I like best that the power of the story comes from the beauty and wonder of the simple and ordinary.  So much of our modern literature relies upon shock and caters to the overstimulated, easily-bored personality which needs ever-increasing levels of shock and stimulation to be amused.  This book nourishes reflection and the meditation upon the things which are true, honest, just, pure and lovely,

Another delightful thing about this book is the rendering of the artwork.  The book is heavily illustrated on each page, and the words are IN the paintings.  The visual and verbal components are wedded together in a way that the words are friendly and integral to the story - an absolute necessity for the child to cross the bridge from mechanical reading to reading adventures.  The illustrations are masterfully done and very much in keeping with the beauty and power of the language.

The book has sophisticated vocabulary  presented in an unobtrusive way.  The child learns these words without knowing he has done so.

My seven-year-old son has just finished reading this book, and the joy we both have in listening to him read and explain to me his thoughts and feelings about the stories is priceless (as is his pronunciation of some of the larger words).
