They say he may have been a modern bohemian Saint Francis living in San Francisco and befriending wild parrots. Or maybe he was simply a man returning (for some time) to the original state of humankind living in harmony with the creatures. Yes, this is the story of wild parrots and a semi-wild man and how they danced, sang, ate seeds, and lived together for six years. Perched high upon a hill overlooking the San Francisco bay, the ancient story of human befriending wild beasts unfolded. The kind of tale that fascinates us today just as it would have fascinated our ancestors in ancient times. Such stories will always fascinate us humans, whenever a gentle, loving heart opens itself to the magic and mystery of creation and engages in a dance of truth with life.

Mark Bittner writes: "In 1988, I took a job as the caretaker of a house on the east side of Telegraph Hill. Two years later I spotted four parrots in the gardens outside my home. Within three years the flock had grown to twenty-six, and I was in love. I spent the next six years making friends with them and learning their ways... I watched them for several years with tremendous curiosity. What were wild parrots doing in San Francisco? Then one day a few of them flew to my fire escape, and my whole life changed..."

In 1996 Mark began writing a book about his experiences with these colorful, fascinating birds. He came to know each parrot individually and personally. Each one has its unique personality, quirks, friendships, courtships, and life pathways. Mark wrote his observations in a journal of the lives of Mingus, Connor, Picasso, Sophie, Olive, Pushkin, Tupelo, and many other parrots whom he named, fed, observed, cared for, and befriended. He also photographed the birds, with stunning results. The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill: A Love Story... With Wings is the highly acclaimed, charming, and best-selling result of Mark's six years with the birds.

Judy Irving, a filmmaker, began creating a documentary of Mark's work with the parrots in 1998. This resulted in her extraordinary documentary, also called The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill. Although the title is the same as the book, the book and film focus on somewhat different aspects of the story. The film (available on DVD) is as much a study of Mark as it is of the parrots. While working on the film, Judy and Mark fell in love. They are now married and living in the gardens of Telegraph Hill. Mark is currently working on a book about his years of living on the street prior to his encounter with the parrots. Judy continues making her high quality films on the environment.

If you read the book or watch the film, you will find that Mark's bird-friends become your friends. James D. Gilardi, Ph.D., Director of the World Parrot Trust, writes: "By falling in with a flock of wild parrots, Bittner has learned more about a real parrot society than those of us studying wild or captive parrots could ever hope to learn." But of course, the book isn't just about parrots. As one reviewer of Mark's book wrote: "By the end of his tale, you will no longer see humans as the center of the universe, if you ever did." And by the time the screen credits are rolling at the end of the film, you will find yourself transformed by this beautifully touching and compelling story.

What I loved especially about both the film and the book is experiencing how Mark himself evolves and transforms through his relationship with the parrots and eventually through his relationship with Judy. He was a lost musician, a street person, a post-beatnik, searching for truth and "right living" as taught by Buddhism. He took odd jobs, tried this and that, but never quite found his path. Until he met the parrots. And then Judy. We sense that the story is far from over, and we yearn to know more of its unfolding... I wish that Judy and Mark would write, or document in film or photographs, more about their personal lives since the publication and dissemination of their book and film. The film opens you up to the delight of these two people, and one yearns to know more. Like the parrots, Judy and Mark have become our friends through the magic of the book and film.

To experience the magic yourself, view the film or DVD, read the book, view Mark's photos, and check out Mark's and Judy's websites. You'll be glad that you did! Beautiful story, beautiful people, beautiful birds.  

Yes, if you are a lover of nature, both human and animal, I highly recommend this book and the film/DVD.  
