Excerpt:'
`Are you a witch?' said Tiffany. `I don't mind if you are.'
`What a strange question to spring on someone,' said the woman, looking slightly shocked. `Your Baron bans witches in this country, you know that, and the first thing you say to me is "Are you a witch?" Why would I be a witch?'  
`Well, you're wearing all black,' said Tiffany.
 `Anyone can wear black,' said the woman. `That doesn't mean a thing.'
`And your wearing a straw hat with flowers in it,' Tiffany went on.
`Aha!' said the woman. `That proves it, then. Witches wear tall pointy hats. Everyone knows that, foolish child.'
`Yes, but witches are also very clever,' said Tiffany calmly. There was something about the twinkle in the woman's eyes that told her to carry on. `They sneak about. Probably they often don't look like witches. And a witch coming here would know about the Baron and so she'd wear the kind of hat everyone knows witches don't wear.'
The woman stared at her. `That was an incredible feat of reasoning,' she said at last. `You'd make a good witch-finder. You know they used to set fire to witches? Whatever kind of hat I've got on, you'd say it proves I'm a witch, yes?'
`Well, the frog sitting on your hat is a bit of a clue, too,' said Tiffany.
`I'm a toad actually,' said the creature, which had been peering at Tiffany from between the paper flowers.
`You're very yellow for a toad.'
I've been a bit ill' said the toad.
`And you talk.' Said Tiffany.
`You only have my word for it,' said the toad, disappearing into the paper flowers. `You can't prove anything.'
`You don't have matches on you, do you?' said the woman to Tiffany.
`No.'
`Fine, fine. Just checking.'
Again, there was a pause while the woman gave Tiffany a long stare, as if making up her mind about something.
`My name,' she said at last, `is Miss Tick. And I am a witch. It's a good name for a witch, of course.'
 
The Wee Free Men is a story about Tiffany Aching, a smart nine-years-old girl who wants to be a witch. She will experience an adventure of a lifetime while trying to get her brother back, who has been stolen. With her frying pan, Granny Aching's magic book and the Nac Mac Feegle (Wee Free Men), she will take on this quest to find her brother and save her town from nightmares.

It all started out one day when Tiffany went to smack Jenny who was about to eat her brother with a frying pan. Fortunately, Miss Tick and the Wee Free Men were there to see her so they could identify that Tiffany was the witch/hag.  A few days later, Wentworth (Tiffany's brother) gets lost and the whole Aching family is searching for him. Tiffany then finds out from the Wee Free Men that the "Quin" stole her brother...

As Tiffany finds the portal to the Queen's realm, she encounters some problems. These "problems" aren't your normal everyday problems. They are hard deal with. Such as battling Grimhounds and becoming the Kelda (boss) of the Nac Mac Feegle. She will also have to looking inside herself with the "first sight" to find the portal to the Queen's realm and get out. 

Once inside the Queen's realm, Tiffany finds herself in trouble. Everywhere, there are dreams! These dreams are made by dromes (monsters that make dreams and lure people inside, used by the Queen for guards) and if humans eat anything from inside the dream, they will be stuck in it forever. Thanks to the Nac Mac Feegle, Tiffany was saved from an eternity of suffering in a dream. In the next dream, she finds herself face to face against the Queen. Will she triumph over the Queen and seal up her realm or perish along with all the Nac Mac Feegle?        

Through this quest, she will learn the qualities of becoming a witch and a good leader. She will get to learn how to properly use her First sight and Second thoughts. First sight is seeing what is really there, second sight is what normal people have; they see what they think is there. Second thoughts are just, "second thoughts."      

This book is very fast paced and it speeds through the events, but amazingly, in great detail. I had to reread some parts to understand them. I would recommend this book anybody above the age of eight and those who have an interest in adventure and fantasy. This book was fantastic!

Terry Pratchett was born on April 28, 1948, in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, England. Terry published his first short story at the age of 13 and was paid 14. He quit school at the age of 17 and was employed as a local newspaper journalist on the Bucks Free Press. After he joins his company, he kept moving on to bigger newspaper companies. In 1987, Terry realized that he could make a living by writing books. So began his career.
