As some pretext, I was in school at the time and did not have the opportunity to witness everything that happened that day. My teachers insisted that it was best we tried to study. For this reason I was particularly open to explanations for this tragedy.

I know that most serious investigations in this matter consult roughly a hundred experts and agencies, and analysed pounds of evidence. In the case of terrorism, these agencies and professionals have no reason to lie. I'd like to think that we have more respect for freedom in our country than that.

Conspiracy theorists can not tout that they have the same respect for research. Most papers on conspiracy theories that I have taken the time to read take quotes out of context and talk to other noted conspiracy theorists or people not qualified to give an expert review in a vain effort to "prove" themselves as they weave outlandish stories on real events, instead of trying to provide tangible evidence to the contrary of and honestly discrediting the official story. I feel it needs to be said that conspiracy theorists by and large are experts at pulling straws of data and synthesizing it in to something the unwary can believe.

I would also like to focus a bit on conspiracy theorists' use of pictoral evidence. Pictoral evidence needs to be obvious: one of the favorite things these people like to do is enlarge photos and draw arrows to highlight some incredibly minute detail and suppose that supports them. This becomes tampered evidence then. How can we really assume that conspiracy theorists haven't morphed or edited photographs differently?

There is an extreme lack of video presented by their ilk, and the video that I have seen by conspiracy theorists has usually been shortened or stilled (as in the "towers falling at freefall speed" argument, and the Pentagon security video, respectively). You cannot trust these either - there is a reason that video stills are not used in jpurnalism, because it produces terribly blurry controversial photograph, not to mention that the cameras frame rate and minute changes in lighting may allow you to miss detail. Still conspiracy theorists jump on it as the eye of truth. Video stills must be consistant with the video in motion - to produce a quality photo you need to focus the image. No conspiracy theorist does this EVER. Investigators probably have, and have in events before, but not related to, September 11th.

I have not read this book therefore I can not give a more knowledgable rating, but I will not discourage people from reading it. What happened on 9/11 is different than believing in something like aliens or Roswell, it is a real event and I really feel that more people need to be careful about what they propagate as the truth
