This book is invaluable because it reminds us that America did not spring up overnight like Athena from Zeus' brow.  

The 1600's was the first time in history that global politics became signficant.  Shorto uses his interest in early Dutch America to tell the immediate stories of the earliest Dutch settlers, but then to set that settlement against a larger global scale.  Moreover, Shorto shows us that global politics in that era did not simply mean European politics.  On the contrary, global politics included powerful Native American political and trading groups. 

The book is very accessible.  Although well-footnoted, the prose is easy to read.  It makes ample use of maps, illustrations and diagrams to explain the geographical and cultural milieu of the Dutch colony.  Even better, the footnotes and bibiliography reward the ambitious "would-be scholars" as well. I've tracked down a few of Shorto's sources and have enjoyed them as well.

Shorto wisely illustrates his points with stories and anecdotes derived from colonial journals and records.  This technique is useful particularly when he is discussing the effect of European religious conflicts on the colony.  The wars between Catholic Spain and the Protestant Dutch Republic could be viewed as solely religious struggles, wars over obscure bits of theology.  But they weren't.  

Shorto's focus on the colonists' relationship with English colonies surrounding New Holland is insightful.  When English policy shifted from sympathy for the Dutch to antipathy, economics and philosophical (as opposed to religious) differences obviously played a much greater role than religious belief.  The interaction of Protestant New England and Protestant New Holland brings these conflicting interests into sharp focus.

Even more intriguing are the early conflicts between the Dutch and surrounding Native American groups.  Once again, Shorto deploys colonial records, journals, and other resources to set us back in a unique time.  The Dutch and their Indian allies and foes were locked in complicated trading and political alliances.  An account of a massacre is brutal but effective in creating the impression that colonization was not inevitable.

The only similar popular history book I have recently read is The War that Shaped America by Fred Anderson.  In fact, I wish Fred Anderson's short study could have included some of Shorto's insights.  Shorto's book makes a convincing case that many of the attitudes of colonial British subjects were similar to, and possibly shaped by, the experience of Dutch traders in New Holland.   

