Genghis is iconically currently known as a merciless, thoughtless conqueror.  His brutality, by modern standards, assuming there are any, pales in comparison to the mass killers of the past century.  While that might be the result of the increase in world population, he certainly showed little mercy to the rulers and elites of his opponents.  However, his methods of warfare and governance were both innovative.  He and the Mongols devised entirely new methods of attack, striking from all directions with speed, and withdrawing as if defeated in order to draw the other side into an extended pursuit ending in ambush.  And in governance, like Napoleon, he directed the construction of a code of laws which he saw were enforced and obeyed, even by him. 
	Jack Weatherford, a Professor of Anthropology at Macalester College in Minnesota, lived for a long period in Mongolia researching this book.   He describes the historical position of the Khan, the ruler of the Mongols and how Genghis rose to and greatly expanded that role.  In one generation he brought the Mongols dominion over most of Eurasia, from Korea to Poland.   He outlines, in detail, the position of the Khan in Mongolia and how it evolved under the aegis of his children and grandchildren, including the administration of Kublai Khan in China.
	  Genghis was a believer in participatory government, which was not fostered again in Asia until the twentieth century.  He instituted a relaxation of criminal sentences, cut in half the offences for which the death penalty was authorized, and fostered the resolution of disputes by local councils.  He also greatly expanded the use of paper money, instituted diplomatic immunity, established universities, decreed universal education, proposed a 40 character alphabet and fostered free trade.  While he demanded unquestioned loyalty, he rejected Confucianism and foot binding, and granted freedom of religion.  Chaucer wrote in awe of him in the longest Canterbury Tale: "This noble king was called Genghis Khan, who in his time was of so great renown that there was nowhere in no region so excellent a lord in all things	Genghis' early life on the Onon River, from his birth in 1162 for nearly twenty years, was one of constant strife.  His mother, Hoelun, was kidnapped from her husband by Yesugei, a Mongol warrior who already had one wife and children.  Shortly after being abducted she gave birth to her first child and named him Temujin after a warrior Yesugei had killed.  His father died when Temujin was a decade old.  As a result his two wives and seven children were deserted by their clan, left to die without animals or shelter on the side of the river of his birth.  He survived through his mother's extraordinary efforts.
	He married before he was twenty, but his wife Borte was kidnapped by warriors of the Merkid, a tribe that occupied the land to the North of the Onon toward Lake Baikal which is now in Siberia.  After praying to the animist gods, Temujin allied his small band with two larger bands and with them attacked the Merkids and recovered his bride.  There followed a series of raids and counter raids among the Mongols and tribes occupying land near them.  Alliances were made and broken year after year.  What made Temujin successful was his ability to assess what talent a man had, and to assign him a task to suit his ability, regardless of his family standing or relationship to Temujin.  He developed this meritocracy in his twenties and it served him for his entire life.  That, along with his demand for absolute loyalty, led to success in warfare and in the growth of his band.  Allied with Ong Khan, the leader of the Kereyid tribe which had helped him to recover his bride, he raided the Tartars and looted their goods.  He next attacked the Jurkin and for the first time showed no mercy to their defeated leaders.  He divided the loot into predetermined shares based upon each warriors standing.   His band grew substantially as a result and he became the Khan, Genghis.
	His cavalry attacks in Central Asia upon Bukhara, Samarkand and thousands of other cities are legends of military genius, much beloved and imitated by the German General Staff. He and his warriors traveled without a train so they were all mobile fighters.  He found food where he was and constructed mammoth siege engines on the spot. What is not well known is the government he brought to conquered territories.  Napoleon is well known for lost battles and his code, but Genghis did not lose any and perhaps as a result his governance has been forgotten.  It is only in the nineteenth century when a copy of the Secret History of the Mongols, in Chinese characters representing Mongolian sounds, was found in Beijing and decoded has the history of Genghis been disclosed.  
	In 1937, Genghis' sulde, a spear shaft to which hair from his best stallions was tied, was removed from the Buddhist monastery where it had been protected for hundreds of years.  The Soviets were demolishing the temples and everything in them, but reportedly the sulde was saved.  Its current location, like the location of Genghis' burial site is unknown.  Genghis has no temple, his grave site area was closed by the Mongols and completely occupied with large facilities installed by the Soviet military.
	Weatherford has not brought Genghis to life.   There is no dialogue and few indications of deep emotions.  There could not be as the Mongols, except for the Secret History, left few books or writings.   Their history has been left to others, many of whom are not sympathetic.  But Weatherford has written a captivating description of the life of one of history's most important individuals, one who is grossly misunderstood by Westerners.  The Mongols revere Genghis.  They speak of him as we would speak of Washington or perhaps Grant.  

