"Environmentalists are like misers.  They are hard to live with, but make great ancestors." -The India Times (as quoted in "Environmental Law and Policy" eds. Plater, etc)

I'm reminded of this quote after reading a previous review, where the reader felt guilty about not being more environmentally proactive when reading Earth Path and disppointed about it not being a book about spirituality.  I'm an Environmental Science student and environmentalist, myself, and am usually the one making others "feel guilty."  So the reader's interpretation doesn't come as a shock, nor am I insensitive to her reaction.  It's often difficult, financially inaccessible, and frustrating to make environmentally sustainable choices (try finding sweatshop-free, recycled/reclaimed materials shoes in a women's size 12 and on a student's budget!  ack.) As an activist/advocate for a healthy, vibrant environment, I don't want to be or make others feel guilty; I want to help them and myself to become increasingly empowered to act positively and with care for the sacred Earth, of which we are all a sacred part.  This is the foundation, for me, of a "Pagan" or Earth Spiritualist path, but it seems to require much more understanding and knowledge of ecology than our culture typically provides.

I refer to a previous review for my own review because it is true, Earth Path is largely a discussion of ecological science, nature, and environmental sustainability.  However, I, personally, find it not to be misleading in terms of being a book about Earth Spirituality and hope to offer another view of how spiritual practice can be further informed by reading Starhawk's latest book.  

I find it to be entirely fresh, desperately needed, and of utmost spiritual concern for Neo-Pagan culture, which usually supposes that the Earth is sacred, immanently divine, and in which holiday, ritual, and wisdom are founded in the rhythms of nature.  Yet, too many of us aren't well-schooled in those rhythms beyond the sometimes abstract poetry of our liturgy, symbols, metaphors, much of our ritual... all beautiful elements of Pagan culture, but not the whole story, I think.  As Tori Amos sings, "I think the good book is missing some pages."  Or perhaps... the Earth, herself is the "good book" and she's missing some readers! :)

As Starhawk mentions in the beginning of Earth Path, she found that after years of academic training and Pagan/Earth-based  spiritual practice, she hadn't really been offered much education in natural science, aka: the laws and workings of Earth, herself.    After 14 years on an Earth path and 10 years of post-secondary education, I have felt a similar void and also now seek to correct it.  It was so uplifting and hopeful to open Earth Path and see that it addressed this issue!
 
Earth Path is a vital effort to remedy the unfortunate and hazardous lack of understanding many of us have, both in Pagan culture and culture abroad, of just how the Earth works, what ecology is, what our role in nature and environment is and could better be, especially as Earth Spiritualists.  What can we do to become better partners with the Earth and to practice, with more integrity, an Earth-based spiritual path?  The best way to develop, attune, and ground an Earth-based spiritual practice is to connect, directly, intimately with Earth... learn her language, learn her secrets, learn her anatomy, her every curve and crevice, how she breathes, what tones her muscles and makes her bones strong, what she likes for breakfast, and what she doesn't: what makes her stressed and unhealthy, what gives her a yeast infection, what makes her hair fall out!  We could stand to learn better how to not be the cause of Mother's hair falling out.  :)  And upon understanding her so intimately, we might find it more difficult (or less easy) to betray her best interest.  Despite our good intentions, without understanding ecology's preferences it must be difficult for Earth Spiritualists to choose and act with spiritual integrity.  It also behooves us, I think, to develop informed, coherent language regarding ecology, to be better representatives, advocates, and teachers for our Earth-based paths.  

A healthy, informed and direct relationship with the Earth, manifested with integrity in our actions and choices, is a necessary foundation for a healthy spiritual practice based on the rhythms and realities of nature.  In Earth Path, Starhawk offers a solution-oriented text for improving this connection by learning more about the "nature" of our spiritual foundation.

Cheers and welcome to Earth Path
