For fans of the master of suspense who happen to be San Francisco-philes, this is a fun one to breeze through on a rainy day. Obvious Hitchcock aficionados as well as bay area residents, co-authors Jeff Kraft and Aaron Leventhal decided to play detective and retrace the filmmaker's steps in identifying all the locations he used in several of his masterworks. Primarily three classics are spotlighted - 1942's "Shadow of a Doubt", 1958's "Vertigo" and 1963's "The Birds", though establishing and background scenes for several others were filmed around here in spite of the story locales, for example, Point Lobos near Monterey was used to recreate the coastline around Cornwall, England in 1940's "Rebecca". The mix of photos - taken at the time both of filming and in the present day - interspersed with the co-authors' anecdotal, sometimes fascinating findings makes for an enjoyable coffee table book.

Fortunately, the three films highlighted are among the master's best, most recognizable work, so scene references do not seem obscure to even the non-trivialist. The various San Francisco locations cited in "Vertigo" provide the book's high points since the other two films are obviously more focused on the less compelling north bay communities of Santa Rosa and Bodega Bay. What comes across most in the co-authors' discourse throughout is their confirmation of Hitchcock's well-known meticulous filmmaking techniques. He was obviously in love with the area, even having a home for a time in Scots Valley near Santa Cruz, but he went to great lengths to study various locations in detail and even recreate real interiors intact - such as the now-defunct Ernie's restaurant or the Venetian Room at the Fairmont Hotel - on Hollywood soundstages with dead-eye accuracy. To their credit, Kraft and Leventhal have done extensive homework on their two subjects - Hitchcock and the bay area - and were aided by people who were around when Hitchcock was filming. The book is an intriguing complement to any number of tomes about Hitchcock's films even beyond the niche the subject represents. It also makes a great tour map for anyone who wants to follow the director's storytelling paths
