****
"Life Without Ed" is a novel and creative way of looking at and overcoming an eating disorder that worked for one woman---depersonalizing it as a separate persona and entity and then interacting with it, thus learning about it and about herself.  She conceptualizes this process as "divorcing Ed" ("Ed" as a male name that is short for "eating disorder").  She learns over time and with lots of hard work, to disagree with and disobey Ed, and instead, to listen to and follow the healthy part of herself that was still there, even though it had been overcome by Ed for many years.  This process is ultimately healing for her, though not a quick fix.  Anyone with an eating disorder knows this is the only way anyone can truly recover---there are no quick fixes---and it's hard.

Many reviewers who were suffering with eating disorders found this book informative and life-changing.  I found it creative and refreshing.  A few others found it not helpful, but very few.  Despite its serious nature, "Life Without Ed" is helpfully humorous and fun to read.  It is short (188 pages), and organized into brief, absorbable, and topical chapters.  

"Life Without Ed" is recommended, foreworded, and co-authored by Thom Rutledge (he writes the helpful exercises throughout), a terrific author himself, and a creative psychotherapist.  He was the author's therapist throughout her recovery.  

It is appropriate reading to learn to deal with any and all eating disorders, from anorexia and bulimia, to NES and general food issues.  It would even helpful for related issues such as perfectionism, body image, and exercise obsession.

The author is transparent and open about the realities of having an eating disorder.  Her stories compare and contrast her life now that she is free from anorexia and bulimia (especially her thought life) with her life before recovery; this was of particular interest to me.  She writes compellingly about surviving relapse.

"Life Without Ed" delivers on its promise of hope beyond eating disorders.  It is encouraging, inspirational, and realistic.  It shows, through the example of the author's life, how to stand against your eating disorder and for yourself.  
***
