When Jacqueline Susann saw the finished movie based upon her best-selling novel, she denounced it as a "piece of s**t!"  Perhaps her hopes were a little too high as the book "Valley of the Dolls" (VOD) was called all sorts of things upon its initial release in 1966 (even by it's own editors); then again, one can see how Susann would have been disappointed as the movie is very different from the novel.  The basic outline of the book and movie is the same - three young women, Anne, Neely and Jennifer, face the pressures and demands of fame as their stars rise - but that, and a smattering of dialogue here and there is about the only thing the book and film share.  

VOD develops the friendships of the three women; how these characters grow to know one another is something the movie either failed to do or else the director let those scenes end up on the cutting room floor.   We follow reserved Anne, self-destructive Neely and the beautiful, doomed Jennifer on a twenty year journey through their ups and downs, good relationships and bad and by the end, I felt as though I knew them.

The bad news about VOD is that despite having once been a scandalous shocker it hasn't aged well and is now a rather tame drama.  In subsequent decades, writers like Jackie Collins and Judith Krantz pushed the literary limits further than Susann did but, quite honestly, even "Peyton Place", published ten years *before* Susann's novel, remains a page turning pleasure whereas "Dolls" just plods along.  Part of VOD's weakness can be rested on the shoulders of Anne, a real cipher of a character.  We spend a great deal of time on Anne's story and frankly, she isn't all that interesting.  Neely and Jennifer are much more exciting character but Susann concludes Jennifer's story far too early (and believe me, you feel the loss once Jennifer exits the action) and dull, milquetoast Anne, with her 1,000 bad decisions, makes it to the very end.  

The good news about this book is how Susann exposes the world of Hollywood, where the pressure to perform and stay thin can destroy a person.  It's common knowledge that Neely O'Hara was most liked based in-part upon Judy Garland, though Susann, like a true professional, denied it.  Sadly, conditions in Hollywood are still very similar though Neely's "dolls" have been replaced by obsessive dieting and anorexia.  Susann also writes well about women's limited options in the era when the book takes place (1945-65) and the consciousness of the female characters anticipates the brewing women's movement. 

Despite its shortcomings, "Dolls" is still a good summer beach read, and we're lucky it went back into print in 1997 after being unavailable for years.  Read it, enjoy it ... but stay away from the dolls
