I've had personal experience with Bibles from numerous American publishers, and can attest to the fact that there is nothing AMG, Holman, Nelson, Zondervan, or Tyndale can put out to equal the worksmanship of this edition. Those mass-produced editions are made out of inferior materials, slapped together with glue that breaks down after exposure to moisture, and more often than not are impossible to read from any distance. The only American Bible I've seen that compares to this is the Thompson as published by B.B. Kirkbride. 

The Thompson is great, mind you, but it has two big problems. First, it's expensive (though I don't think one should skimp on a Bible, especially if you're going to be reading it as much as you should be) and second, it's very big and clumsy. After my second Nelson Compact Reference Bible fell apart (I received the second as a gift- I'd never have bought another) I was in the market for a new travel-size one. It had to be lightweight and relatively small, and it had to have a concordance since I can't remember numbers to save my life.

Fortunately, I stumbled by this Cambridge University Press edition. Being a conservative Christian, I don't believe in luck, so it must have been God's guidance. This is the perfect travel edition for me- it measures 7.25x5.25x1.25 inches (Amazon's dimensions apparently include the box), is barely heavier than my doomed Nelson despite being significantly larger, and has an excellent concordance. The typeface is easy to read even from my lap (I'm nearsighted- about 3 diopter prescription) and the binding is of superfluous quality. There's an added dictionary and a set of detailed maps as well, and center column references. Topic summaries are noted at the header of each page. Unlike many other Bibles I've seen, the pages turn easily straight out of the box, and are of exquisite quality. 

The printing in the concordance is significantly smaller than the rest of the Bible text, but this is forgivable. I'd rather have more references than have it perfectly legible. In all, I'm pleasantly surprised by the amount of helps in this Bible- it is much more than one would expect from an edition of this size. 

I still use my Thompson for desktop study, but I have a new companion when traveling and witnessing. It's clear to me now that Cambridge deserves its reputation as a producer of top-quality Bibles. Especially for its price, the Cameo Reference Edition comes highly recommended. It is now my gift of choice for loved ones.
