Finally! For those of us who have kept our eye trained on Matthew &quot;Uncle Matty&quot; Margolis via his TV specials &quot;Woof&quot;, and on Mordecai Siegal through his many articles and books, hoping to get more  than the already generous advice they both have offerd on dog-basics,  &quot;Grrr!&quot; is the perfect companion for understanding dog  aggression. And, for those of us who have lived with an aggressive dog and  are frustrated with the media in general for not treating the topic in a  factual and prescriptive manner - but hyping or hiding it instead - it's  about time we have thorough and professional expert advice for a change!  The book is divided into 7 tidy chapters focused on helping the reader  identify aggression, understand its general and specific roots, and develop  skills to deal with it. The content is thorough, motivating, and easy to  understand. For anyone who has previously read a Siegal/Morgalis book, this  volume does not disappoint in either its customary straight-forward and  practical style or its hallmark wit and common sense. As usual, the authors  provide clear direction, illustrative examples, and concise reference to  back up their assertions. &quot;Grrr!&quot; also offers a welcome departure  from some of their early works, which can look somewhat like carbon copies  of each other. &quot;Grrr!&quot; provides extensive information exclusively  on aggression and leaves the rest of dog basics to the other volumes. For  anyone looking to have complete reference materials, &quot;Grrr!&quot; and  any one other Siegal/Margolis title  - say &quot;Good Dog/Bad Dog&quot; -  would certainly do the trick. And, for anyone dealing with the heartache of  loving an aggressive dog, &quot;Grrr!&quot; is pretty much the only book  you'll need. The book's only pitfalls are that is does get a bit overly  preachy about owning up to having an aggressive dog and in an attempt to  make each chapter complete, should the reader foolishly skip parts, some of  the material is overly repetitive. In fact, chapter 7 could be discarded  entirely and the book would still be an absolute gem. Other than that,  &quot;Grrr!&quot; would have to be rated as a welocme addition to the  general literature of dog training and a must have for aggression issues
