I read Monster Island and this is a good side by side story along with that.  It is a flashback to the beginning of things, providing a clearer idea of why the undead have started walking and a little more detail on our ancient scottish undead chap that was in the first novel.  

Unlike the first book, this one really cannot stand on its own as I am sure the series of events will be completed in Monster Planet, the third and final (I assume) installment in this series.  

Mr. Wellington does a good job of creating a realm where the supernatural is the cause of the dead rising as opposed to a virus or a more scientific reasoning.  We are slowly given an idea of how this threat developed and where it came from.  Even thought it came from human actions, ancient gods are behind the desire to see the human race wiped clean off the planets surface.

This book is even more focused on a specific undead character than Zombie Island-Nilla, who chose her own name after becoming undead because she cannot remember her name, nor anything of her own past before being bitten by a zombie herself and dying.  She continued to take in oxygen while dying and thus her brain did not deteriorate.  The story pretty much follows her storyline as well as Clark Bannerman, a Captain with the National Guard who is forced to become the lead in the military battle against the undead in the western states.  He pursues Nilla after realizing that she is the only undead person that can still speak.  He knows that she is a key to resolving this issue, even though he does not know why.

Overall, the story flows quite well and is definitely entertaining.  I liked how the author put a small blurb on nearly every page that blasts out a news report/personal commentary that interupts the ongoing story with information on what is occuring to people all over the country.  Pleas for help, reports of mysterious killings, etc.

I feel the author did a better job of explaining the undead relationship with animals-how they become undead, etc. than in the first book.  It seemed then that it was just a minor point.  It is not fleshed out completely here, but seems much more natural as a part of the story.

Given that this series of books takes a supernatural slant, I am much more accepting of the ancient scottish zombie here than I was in the first book.  I was a little taken aback by Nilla's "special ability" which seems out of place and makes little to no sense-how does she have that particular talent and why?  Perhaps it will be further explained in the final book.

Overall, the details of this book made the me understand the first book even more and appreciate it better now that things seem to be coming together more clearly.  I look forward to reading the third book and seeing everything resolved (or at least resolved...for now)
