C.S. Lewis has a tremendous capability to analyze facts of spiritual matters. After reading The Weight of Glory I was able to understand more fully what glory means; why I'm not a pacifist either; and why I shouldn't care much about being inside the inner rings of my life.

First of all, I learned that glory means good report with God. In other words, it means to be recognized by our creator. I appreciated Mr. Lewis' words, "The sense that in this universe we are treated as strangers, the longing to be acknowledge, to meet with some response... is part of our inconsolable secret." I have often told my family and friends that even at times when everything is going well in my life, when things seem to be perfect to me, I still feel this preexistence nostalgia that makes me realize that I cannot be whole until I rejoin with my creator. Thus, Lewis's interpretation of glory helped me with validating and healing of that old ache.

I completely agree with Lewis's position of not being a pacifist. He states, "The doctrine that war is always a greater evil seems to imply a materialist ethic, a belief that death and pain are the greatest evils. But I don't think they are. I think the suppression of a higher religion by a lower, or even a higher secular culture by a lower, a much greater evil." This, I think, is very insightful. It makes me think of a country being under tyranny or any other dangers; how would I say that I would not fight evil? How can I be indifferent and not raise my hands against it? I believe in goodness, in freedom. Therefore, I would do anything to preserve these freedoms, even if it means a war.

Finally, The Inner Ring chapter was an eye-opener in helping me decide with some burdensome areas of my life. I was living my own example of "trying to get in the inner ring" few weeks before I read the book. A group of friends started a book club, and I was invited to be a part of it. After the first meeting, when we committed to read several books, I realized that my decision of joining the club was not a good one considering the amount of books I have to read already. I thought of withdrawing from the club, but I didn't want to "miss the fun." It wasn't until I read the Inner Ring chapter that I realized that I wasn't having any fun at all! I particularly related to the following words, "It is a terrible bore, of course, when old Fatty Smithson draws you aside and whispers, `Look here, we've got to get you in on this examination somehow' or `Charles and I saw at once that you've got to be on this committee.' A terrible bore... ah, but how much more terrible if you were left out!" After many nights of few hours of sleep, trying to catch up with my reading, I quit the club. The relief I felt after taking such decision helped me decide that I don't want to do something that will bring me more unnecessary stress in my life just for the sake of being "In" the Inner Ring.

It was very assertive for me to read The Weight of Glory at this point of my life. Being able to understand what glory means is very helpful in my everyday spiritual life. Incidentally, the day I started reading the Why I'm Not a Pacifist chapter was the day that the United States declared war against terrorism. And definitely, the Inner Ring chapter helped me make the decision of getting rid of unnecessary stress in my life.
