My grandmother gave me this book years ago as a birthday present, and my copy shows definite signs have having been read and reread many times over.  I never grow tired of reading it, and it makes me feel good every time I open it up.

I'll accept what other reviewers of Cherokee descent have stated here that this is not an accurate depiction of their way of life.  Here's the kicker though...I did not read this book to learn about the Cherokee, so the fact that it is not a true portrayal is not a concern to me.  The family could just as easily have been German, Chinese, Russian, or Arab, it wouldn't have made any difference.  

I'll also accept that Forrest (Asa) Carter was a racist, segregationist, KKK member.  Mr. Carter is gone, and I don't know, nor will anyone else ever know, what his true motivation behind writing this story was.

What is more important is the overall message that this book portrays, and it is NOT one of racism.  It is an endearing account of a little boy's relationship with his grandparents and their lives together in the mountains during the Depression.  The wonderful thing is that it is told from the viewpoint of a 5 year old.  He is too young to understand much about the adult world around him, and it is interesting to see his interpretations of the various things he experiences.  He has a child's innocence, and is still able to view even the simplest things with wonder and can derive enjoyment from them.  Five year olds today need an explosive video game to be so entertained.

The characters are well developed, a bit oversimplified, but intensly human.  The writing is incredibly descriptive, and provides the reader with a vivid mental picture of what is happening.  It teaches the pleasure of slowing down and paying attention to the little things that are happening in the world, like watching a spider trying to build its web across a creek.  It demonstrates the comfort and closeness derived when being separated from loved ones by looking at the same star or lighting a candle at the same time.

As for stereotypes, I didn't find it here.  Some people have stated that the fact that Little Tree and his grandparents are uneducated reflects a negative Native American stereotype.  I don't believe this to be the case in this book.  They are uneducated, yes; but in that place and time in history, so were many people, of many races.  

Overall, this is a rich story about the strength of love and family, hardships and overcoming them, and slowing down and finding wonder wherever you can.  About looking at the world through the innocent eyes of a child.

If you are looking for a fast paced action thriller, do not read this book.  If you are looking to read a book that is a true and accurate portrayal of Native American life, this is not the book for you.  But if you are looking for a nice, feel-good story, then don't pass this book up!

For those who are bent on picking apart and finding fault in this book, well I suppose one could find fault in anything if you look hard enough for it.  There are some people who just spend their lives looking for the worst in everything, and as a result, miss out on life's simple pleasures, one of which is this book.



