The hate here is the hate that the Left seems to have not only for American, but the notion of Western Civilization in general.  In the immortal words of a bunch of Stanford Leftists: "Hey, Hey, Ho, Ho!  Western Civ has got to go!"  It is interesting that the left continually rails against Western Civilivation and Christianity, yet these are the very societies that have created the unprecedented freedoms to attack them from within.  Something the Left tries to skirt around at all costs.

Now, that is the left?  Flynn defines it very narrowly.  The left isn't all liberals, rather it is the left-wing of the liberal movement.  Flynn is not making the claim that the rank and file of the Democratic party and the liberal/progressive movement is anti-America.  Anyone who has actually read this book would pick up on that rather quickly.  He really is after the fringe that demonstrably hates the United States and what it stands for.  He very helpfully provides specific examples of the anti-America types of which he refers.

The book begins talking about specific instances of anti-American hehavior and statements following 9/11 before exposing the origins of anti-Americanism.  Flynn then talks about the five big lies that liberalism claims America and Western Civilization in general is.  For example,the notion that American women live under patriarchy.  That is flat wrong and most people can see that is wrong without too much thought.  As an American who has traveled in several countries, I have seen real patriarchal societies, and American society isn't it.  Others include the idea that America is racist (if America were so racist, why are Blacks and Asians flocking to America) and the false claim of U.S. as the imperial power.  I won't give it all away.  Get the book.  Flynn then compares Western culture to other cultures that simply can't hold a light to the freedom and tolerance present in Western cultures, including American culture.  Finally, Flynn goes into a discussion of the true meaning and legacy of America.

This is a good read.  There are more than thirty pages of notes (which would be more than thirty pages more than the liberal book I am currently making my way through.)  The work has been meticulously research.  All items in which I myself engaged in a fact check on all panned out.  To me, this work has a high level of credibility, is highly readible, and will restore the pride you truly had in America, but liberal lies had stipped away
