In All Consuming Images, Stuart Ewen evaluates how style has affected the various domains of society, the politics of style, and the ability of style to bring about a universal way of seeing things in our society.  In today's  consumer society, it is common to observe a free occupation with style,  appearance, and image.  This obsession with style has become so  overwhelming that it has begun to affect the way we value ourselves and  those we come in contact with.  Ewen describes how each style transforms as  time goes by, and each new culture has a different way of viewing things.   Ewen explains that style is an individual circumstance, each person has a  different perspective and a different way of expressing themselves through  style.  Ewen examines how there is a struggle to move up the social ladder,  and style was a component for this upward movement.  Middle class  individuals were now able to present an image of containing wealth that  they may not really have possessed.  In the society of mass produced goods,  people began to use stylized items as a personal &quot;identity  kit&quot;(Ewen, 70).  Stuart Ewen also discusses the idea of &quot;less is  more&quot;.  He relates this concept to architecture, clothing, and women's  obsession with being thin.  Ewen began by describing how women began to  leave the home more often, and society began to impose higher expectations  on body ideals.  Female bodies were portrayed as being perfectly thin in  all aspects of the media.  Ewen ends his book by explaining how the world  we live in is more concerned with image and appearance than substance.   Individuality within a person has become invisible if it does not include  some aspect of style.  Style in our country has emerged at such a rapid  pace and at such a large scale.  As new images and styles are presented, we  must remember what is thoroughly important, the self within.  Ewen  concludes by stating that &quot;there must be a reconciliation of image and  meaning, a reinvigoration of a politics of substance&quot;(Ewen, 271)
