Years ago, I set about writing a book aimed at assisting "romantically challenged men" to find, win and keep (if desired) a woman. It focussed on enhancing financial status; physical shape and fitness; charming the ladies; relaxation; meditation; setting and achieving goals; understanding sexuality; advanced massage techniques (sport, remedial, relaxation and erotic) and advanced lovemaking techniques. In these areas, it went into considerable detail, yet there still seemed to be a dimension missing from it. It didn't focus on determining what "Ms Right" should be like for any given male; or how to identify her out of dozens or even hundreds of women; or how best to treat her, beyond what was contained in the massage and lovemaking sections.
    Dr. Alex Avila's "LoveTypes" brought to light that which was missing from my own book. I was first exposed to the MBTI concept through joining a singles website and it led me to purchase the book, as interest in the concept grew.
    Concurrent with this, I just happened to meet a fabulous lady to whom I became fiercely attracted just on first sight alone. The attraction appears to be mutual. I had not read "LoveTypes" at that time, however and one might suspect that allowing things to go forward with this lady regardless of the value of Dr. Avila's teachings could prove disastrous in the long run. It might appear to be even more so, given that I strongly endorse the MBTI system after studying it at considerable length and in great depth.
    No way! Since I learned to classify people according to the MBTI system, I applied that to what I know of the lovely lady and there is EVERY indication that she is an ISFP Gentle Artist - the ESFP Performer's best match!
    I'm ecstatic!
    I believe the MBTI system has not yet evolved to its full potential extent, pointing out that each of the four indicator scales I/E; S/N; F/T and P/J are one-dimensional. I am of the opinion that the application of an extra dimension (based upon intelligence) to overlay each of these four would be the next    valuable evolution in the system. I also feel that inborn traits, while a strong influence in MBTI determination, are not so absolute as the good Doctor believes. I am convinced an individual can evolve to the extent that progressively inheriting a different MB Type is not only possible, but natural in some people. As an adolescent, I, myself was a clear and definite INTP, but over time and now approaching 50, evolved into an ESFP with residual NTP traits still strongly enough in evidence to give me a secondary ENTP Innovator typing, but no longer dominant. Here is where I suspect a problem with the way the system sees the way the four existing dimensions operating. If a person is perfectly ambivalent in one of the dimensions - say, S/N, then whether they type as a Sensor or Intuitive in a seven point test can be one way on Wednesday and the other on Friday, depending on mere fleeting changes in frame of mind. It happens with me in the S/N and F/T dimensions and in any case, I recognise a greater capacity in myself than many people have to use BOTH ways to process input and BOTH ways of making decisions - not either exclusively, nor one necessarily more than the other. The capacity to use both exists in each of those two dimensions; therefore I use that capacity, naturally. Alright - it's a thing acquired over decades, but is so ingrained and habitual as such that it's natural to the full extent that really matters here. Speculating on this has led to me call into question the validity of regarding the four pairs of preferences as true opposites. Is it not possible to be capable of drawing one's energy and motivation both from within and without at the same time - to be both autocentric and extroanthropic, as it were? Is it not possible to perceive both the whole forest AND the individual trees at the same time? I suspect it is, as I like to think I do. And this is where the notion of INTELLIGENCE comes into it. Most people probably have the ability to swing more towards one preference in a given dimension at a given time - then the opposite way at a different time - but since when is swinging both ways at once impossible for everybody?
    Well, it's food for thought, but NOT a criticism. Dr. Avila's book is certainly based on valid principles and I found it extremely valuable. Knowing, thanks to this book, the right general approach in my treatment of my Lovely Lady In Red cannot fail to make a difference! When I go back to finishing that book of mine, it will be to weave the MBTI system into its text together with pointers to other worthwhile reading such as "LoveTypes". Highly recommended!

