Michael Karpin's "The Bomb in the Basement" is a well-researched account of the development of Israel's nuclear weapon program.  However, the preeminent scholarly work on this subject remains Avner Cohen's "Israel and the Bomb."  Perhaps the greatest shortcoming of "The Bomb in the Basement" is the lack of detailed citations, which will make it very difficult for scholars to benefit from Karpin's research.  For example, it is frequently unclear whether the author obtained quotes from interviews, diaries or secondary sources.  Also, although Karpin effectively demonstrates how the Holocaust and fear of being wiped out by Arab enemies motivated Israeli leaders David Ben-Gurion, Shimon Peres and Ernst David Bergmann to pursue a nuclear option, this concept has already been thoroughly addressed by Avner Cohen.  Nevertheless, even readers of Cohen's book will find new insights in Karpin's account.  For example, "The Bomb in the Basement" highlights the roles of lesser known players in Israel's nuclear history, including Munya Mardor, director of Israeli defense firm RAFAEL, and Shalhevet Freier, a diplomat/defense attaché who was instrumental in securing French assistance to Israel.  

Karpin also brings to life the various political, bureaucratic and ideological differences among Israel's elites, such as the rift between Ben-Gurion and Chaim Weizmann, Israel's first president.  Other highlights include a never-before-published account of a radioactivity accident at Israel's Weizmann Institute in 1957 and an exploration of France's motives for aiding Israel in the construction of the nuclear reactor at Dimona.  Finally, whereas Cohen's account ends in the early 1970s, Karpin concludes his book with a chapter that recaps more recent events shaping Israel's security environment and examines the implications of a nuclear-armed Iran.  The latter discussion is particularly relevant in light of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent call to wipe Israel "off the map."  Overall, Michael Karpin's "The Bomb in the Basement" objectively tackles a subject that has historically received far less attention than it merits.  While the book may have limited scholarly value because of its scant citations, more casual readers will find it a compelling and informative read
