`Perfect Recipes for Having People Over' by notable culinary writer, Pam Anderson is a sequel to her earlier `Perfect Recipes' and continues her somewhat revisionist approach to recipe writing I saw in `How to Cook Without a Recipe'.

Anderson's focus on `having people over' is a substitute for `entertaining for four or more' without the anxiety created by the notion of `Entertaining' with all the high aspirations loaded onto that word by, for example, Martha Stewart. In some sense, Anderson is playing with words here. The title of this book could just as easily been `Easy Entertaining for Four to Twelve People' or even `Perfect Recipes for Easy Entertaining'. But the linguistic change from `entertaining' to `having people over' is in keeping with Anderson's other revisionist approaches to cooking.

At one time, Anderson was executive editor, under Christopher Kimball, at `Cook's Illustrated' and her `Perfect Recipe' formula owes a lot to the `Cooks Illustrated' philosophy of equating good with fast and easy. There are several `shortcuts' early in the book which are clever methods for approaching the quality of `slow and difficult' cooking with `perfect', that is `fast and easy' methods. One example is her technique for fortifying commercially prepared and packaged stock by cooking it with the skin and bones from rotisserie broiled chickens. While I have never tried this, I have used good commercial stocks and I have made chicken stock from scratch, and the commercially prepared stuff, no matter how good, is simply never as good as the homemade stuff. So, I believe the `fortified' commercial stock is simply a compromise between the stuff straight out of the can and purely homemade stock.

At this point, Richard Olney's notion of `simple' food preparation comes to mind. His notion of simplicity did not necessarily mean easy, but it did mean not messing around with your ingredients too much so that you retain their natural goodness. I get this sense that Anderson is saving an hour or so here and there at the cost of really complicating things. I really believe that for a person who is serious about cooking for guests, the task of making a chicken stock a few days ahead is simply not that daunting, especially if one picks one of the shorter methods which may take no more than four (4) hours cooking time and maybe 90 minutes of prep and finishing work. It seems to me that Anderson's method simply saves on the unattended cooking time rather than on the prep and finishing steps.

I also find Anderson's writing to be just a bit clumsy here and there. It is quite possible I am being overly critical, but I find the kind of locutions in her sentences that I simply do not find in most writers. One statement suggests, for example, that an unopened can of beans be added to soup. Another statement suggests that potatoes be mashed after being added to a liquid rather than before. I know I am nit-picking, but I submit these as evidence that Anderson's book is best used by someone with some sound cooking knowledge, so these little linguistic slips will not trip them up. Another reason I suggest this book be used only by people who already know how to cook is in the way Anderson gives us a master recipe on, for example, chicken soup, followed by six variations, all of which tell us nothing more than to dump all the ingredients into the soup and simmer until done. At least one objection to this method I have is the fact that I would not put dried thyme and fresh parsley into cooking soup at the same time. I would put the thyme in at the very beginning and the parsley in at the end. I would also question treating rice and pasta and canned beans in exactly the same manner by dumping them into the base soup, followed by 10 to 20 minutes of simmering.

The good news is that as long as you realize that Ms. Anderson is giving experienced cooks suggestions for preparing reasonably quick meals for informal entertaining, Pam really has a lot to offer us in this book.

The first thing which appealed to me is that the book is not organized around menus, but around main courses followed by a variety of side dishes with which one can mix and match to create a menu to suit your own needs. The main courses are of four `flavors', in chapters on:

Kitchen Gatherings for casual entertaining based entirely on do ahead recipes.
Outdoor Affairs for entertaining outdoors. Only four recipes here.
In the Dining Room for serious sit-down dinners. I must note here that I object to Ms. Anderson's saying that cooking risotto in the traditional way requires an hour of full attention. Every good Italian cooking writer worth their salt says just about any risotto can be done in 20 minutes. To be sure, that is 20 minutes of close attention! On the other hand, this chapter does contain some of the very best entertaining main courses and techniques such as the Twin Turkeys, the Pork Loin, and the Beef Tenderloin.
Breakfast for Company is the second best chapter, especially for its Greek Frittata and Stratas.

Each main course section gives us recommendations on `When should I serve It', `Any Shortcuts', etc.  I find it just a bit odd that the number of servings yielded from each recipe varies from two (2) to twenty. This may be a small concern since almost all the recipes are relatively easy to double or quadruple. I give Ms. Anderson extra points for giving us a recipe for commonly available lobster tails instead of for live lobster, and special points for telling us about the reasons for preferring cold water sources for frozen lobster tail. I also give Ms. Anderson good points for good tips on how to use sugar to get a good, fast sear on meat.

Recommended for cooks who entertain often!
