I admit to reading the latest reviews on this book while in the midst of reading it for myself. I found the reviews to be supportive of the work with grave reservations, and I found this to be my opinion when finished with the reading.

The book's beginning chapter speaks in detail of Hughes' last days, his dependence on drugs for pain relief, and his tight-knit entourage of staff who ministered to his final hours. This structure provides us a clear idea of how the remaining book will evolve without bogging us down with detail as Hughes reaches his final minutes.

For the first 100 pages I found the book difficult to put down but soon enough I read it no faster than any other. Hack is clearly an organized and thoughtful writer, but his style in my opinion is too similar to that of Joseph Wambaugh. Both men are too apt to use ridiculous similes in telling their tale. In Wambaugh's case the practice smacks of one cop chuckling over a bloody crime with other cops (seemingly his audience when writing his books). In Hack's case the similes distract from the overall tenor so much that the average reader might be quick to question his research and presentation. Early on I forgave such phrases as "piggybacked like barbary macaques in the jungles of Algeria . ." (not one of which elements belongs in this book). "Banks folding like concertinas" was forgivable. The other samples I jotted down were but a few of a large number. . ."he worked with the intensity that old maids give to picking locks. . . "; "love was as alien to him as a jelly doughnut to a Slovakian rebel. . ."; Maheu "clung to office like a sheet of Saran wrap on a cold bowl. . "; [that they might] ". . fight among themselves like alley cats over rotting garbage. . ." In many instances the entire page was peppered with the silliest similes and metaphors that I seriously wondered how I could read the remaining pages.

On the whole, the latest reviews are probably just. The book speaks devotedly of its subject, and this is the deteriorating man known as Howard Hughes. The mystique is stripped; the bare tax (and bare ass, as often as not) is revealed. This biography was by no means the page-turner it seemed it would be, but it seems credible in its treatment of its subject
