I like everything Molly Ivins writes. Like Peggy Noonan, she can write. But she tends to do what some of her right wing counterparts do not: she provides facts, not just platitudes on the warmth--or lack thereof--of those of whom she writes.

In fact, she tends to be a sort of Upton Sinclairesque critic, rather than the romance novelesque style of those counterparts. Thank God.

This book is more, though, of a cheer lead, something I can use in general arguments with people who defend Bush and his policies. However, if I were inclined to write a more "scholarly" document I would not use this. Why? Because there are no footnotes.

All right. Al Franken pointed out in his book "Lying Liars..." that footnotes can be bogus. That's been known for years, and Franken just puts that fact in a more humorous context.  Ann Coulter, for example, uses footnotes with no real referral, or  taken out of context. Nonetheless people who defend her will refer to the footnotes--as if they're substantial. So they serve a rhetorical purpose anyway. 

The information in this book is substantial. If I were going to a party tonight with, say, my in-laws, I'd read all the highlights I've made in "Bushwacked." I'm not likely to change the opinions of my rivals, but at least I might plant a seed by referring to many of the facts that Molly points out. 

Don't get me wrong, I'm not discouraging the reading of the book. It's fact-filled, funny, and solid. I mean, if you think Bush really cares in the least about education, well, look at his talk relative to how much money he puts out for it. Look at what he--or rather to what Karl Rove--has done to Texas while Dubya was acting governor. There's even an intersting chapter on Eugene Scalia and his shenanigans. And much, much more. 

But this is more of a rally cry for anti-Busheviks than it is something which you may find in, say, Harper's.

Read it, use it to argue. But don't expect it as a reference on a doctoral dissertation.

By the way, I'll now read "Shrub" by Ivins too. That's how much I like her writing
