In "Richard II," Bolingbroke usurped Richard II's crown and became King Henry IV. In "1 Henry IV," King Henry IV stopped the rebellion by Hostspur, Worcester, and Vernon. But his enemy Northumberland is still out there. And this brings us to the present chapter "2 Henry IV." Despite the title, the real star of this play is Falstaff. In "1 Henry IV' Falstaff had a moderate roll. The learned Isaac Asimov was of the opinion that Shakespeare got more than he bargained for with his Falstaff and realized he could write a play with Falstaff as the prominent character. One minor complaint I have is that while Falstaff probably could handle a play, some of the scenes with him seem drawn out. Northumberland reappears and he is of course sad over the death of his son Hotspur. (Slain by Prince Henry in Part 1.) We also meet the Arch Bishop of York who becomes an enemy of Henry IV. The Arch Bishop delivers a striking passage that emphasizes that the past and to come always seem better than the present. In Act 2, we quickly learn that Falstaff has built up some debts and that he is neglecting his duties to the king. (Big surprise!) Prince Henry is a backstage player for the early part of the play, but rather than being close to Falstaff (as in Part 1), he bitterly rebukes Falstaff for his style of life. Also, Prince Henry expresses some sorrow over his father's failing health. But he is afraid he will be seen as a hypocrite if he shows it. (Many people in his position wouldn't be able to  wait to wear the crown.) Interestingly, a woman named Doll begins to find Falstaff attractive. King Henry IV does not enter until Act 3.1, and we can see that the rebellions have taken their toll on him. He is having insomnia and he can only talk about the tribulations of his crown. It is even possible that he feels he deserves his afflictions. Later, Falstaff gathers his men together in a well drawn comical scene. Westmoreland and Henry IV's son Lancaster defeat the rebellion of the Arch Bishop of York, Mowbray, and Hastings in a less than honorable way. But this is not an invention of Shakespeare. It really happened. In the comical 4.3, Coleville surrenders to our favorite fat rogue Falstaff. It is on the funny side when Falstaff comments that Lancaster is so uptight because he doesn't drink. But the sad part of the play returns soon enough. Despite the fact that Henry IV 's enemies have been defeated, Henry IV's health has failed, and he doesn't have much more of a reign to enjoy. (And if you follow my reviews, this constitutes a small consolation prize to King Richard II.) The scene where King Henry IV admits his crimes, begs God's forgiveness, and wishes the eventual Henry V well is one of Shakespeare's greatest moments. I always liked how in "Richard II," Henry IV was a young and energetic usurper, and then in "1 Henry IV" he was portrayed as somewhat more heroic and a likable king, and in "2 Henry IV" he was portrayed as a sorrowful and penitent man. Some people dislike Henry V for banishing Falstaff, but the truth is Henry V has little choice. Falstaff's actions (as comical and entertaining as they are) are flat out criminal. Though Shakespeare did not keep the epilogue's word by putting Falstaff in "Henry V," he would eventually reappear in "The Merry Wives of Windsor."
