Those new to Taoism, or confused by it, will almost certainly find Eva Wong's book immensely helpful.  It immediately addresses the problems most people experience when they first become interested in this tradition, i.e. "Why do there seem to be so many different versions of Taoism, some of them quite contradictory?  What are the differences and similarities between these 'schools' and how did they arise?  If someone is 'practicing Taoism' today, what does that actually mean?"  By dividing her book into three sections - History of Taoism, Systems of Taoism, and Taoist Practices - Wong clearly articulates the development and varieties of Taoist thought, its key figures, texts, beliefs, concepts, principles and practices.  She does this in short, well-focused chapters, and uses a very clear and concise style.  Each chapter ends with a "Further Readings" section offering what I've found to be very useful pointers into the immense body of Taoist literature, sometimes even referring to specific chapters of books and pointing out which ones are more general or more academic, and which translations she prefers.  Wong also includes a detailed index, a solid bibliography, and two useful appendices containing a map of China and a chronology of the dynasties.  What you won't find here is the kind of nonsense that plagues so many books about ancient traditions that have recently become more popular - Wong gives you no detailed instruction on how to conduct ceremonies or create talismans or wield "magic".  Rather, she respects Taoism as a serious and living tradition and recommends that if you are interested in learning the specifics of any particular Taoist sect then you must find a Taoist master and complete the necessary training.  Wong refuses to treat Taoism as a New Age novelty.  Moreover, her honesty about the limits and relativity of her work is admirable.  As she notes at the outset, she is acting here as a guide: someone who offers knowledge arising out of personal experience; who offers a perspective, not necessarily rigorous objectivity; and who does not pretend that what she is saying can ever be complete.  Having said that, I think Wong's book comes as close as you're likely to get to a comprehensive introductory text.  It certainly answered all of my questions
