I found this book to be an extremely practical book regarding the survival of Asperger's Sydnrome sufferers in college. Given that the majority of young AS people would end up at college, this book is essential reading.

It outlines a lot of the challenges faced by AS students in college, particularly social challenges. Many of these things are second nature to non AS students, but to the AS students a lot of these things take time and effort to understand and put into practice.

The book is written in a very simple and concise manner, and clearly goes through every logical step of any argument or situation (which is vital for AS sufferers).

That being said, this isn't any sort of 'all answer' of 'cure' book to AS, simply because nothing like that exists. It's simply a handbook that contains practical advice and tips for the AS student.

However, one of the overriding themes of the book was the emphasis on therapy and counselling for the AS student. It seemed as if the end of every paragraph had the recommendation 'see your therapist' or something similar. I grew tired of hearing that point.

Personally, I am a self-diagnosed AS student, a conclusion I reached after, quite by accident, hearing Dr Tony Attwood speak on television one day. I am only just now, almost at the end of my tertiary education, looking into AS in great detail. I only wish that I had had this book when I had first started at university. It would have saved me from a lot of embarrassing moments and awkward situations. However, I draw confidence from the fact that a lot of the methods and tips given in this book I actually developed on my own, before I had any idea about AS.

I personally feel that AS is more common that currently thought (about 1 in 250 people), and that as research into AS continues, we will begin to understand more and more about the syndrome. I hope to one day see programs in schools (particularly at the primary level) to recognise AS in students at a young age and help them deal with the condition. 

This book is required reading for anyone who has, or knows somebody who has, Asperger's Syndrome.
