Apparently being a personal assistant to Stephen King has certain perks, especially when you're writing a concordance to his bestselling Dark Tower series. Robin Furth doesn't give us any new material, but fans and newcomers alike will probably want to check this out.

Furth includes plenty of data on the first four novels of the series, starting with an essay that refreshes the reader's memory. Furth starts the actual content with a list of characters with biographical info, from "Abigail" to "Zoltan." Then it's the areas of Mid-World, from the lair of the vampire nuns to Roland's long-lost homeland; the areas of our own world, and portals between the worlds.

The appendices are also quite solid. The first explains in detail the various terms and phrases used in the High Speech, Mid-World language ("graf" is apple beer) and sayings ("If it's ka, it will come like the wind") and a bit of the Sisters of Eluria's language. The second appendix explains different drugs, languages, dances, holidays, instruments, and so on. The third explains various cultural figures and items from our own world, ranging from Humphrey Bogart to the Hobbit. The fourth and final appendix is a series of maps -- not too complex, but detailed enough.

The Dark Tower series -- currently at six volume and a short story -- is enticingly complex and mysterious. It's also interlinked with other novels of King's, like "Insomnia" and "Eyes of the Dragon." And so it's inevitable that even the die-hard fans will forget this character or that fair-day; with Furth's book, they can refresh their memories and maybe have a few points clarified.

Furth does an excellent job organizing and annotating the book, including the books in which the items appear, and which pages are significant. She also maintains a calmly distant attitude in the book, without getting too gushy about King's work. But she does slip up occasionally; it's jarring to hear about "screwing" someone with a gun in a scholarly work.

Robin Furth's "Dark Tower Concordance Volume 1" is a good accompaniment to the Dark Tower series, and even those who have read the series many times will want to keep it at hand. Very useful
