William Schulz' book is a pamflet on human rights which does easily fit in the tradition of human rights 'classics', such as have been written by Thomas Paine and Voltaire. His argument is that human rights are in &quot;our&quot; best interest - in particular, in the best of American interests. His book was clearly written for an American readership  - which somewhat limits the &quot;universal&quot; scope of the subject but gives his arguments a good focus. Since Americans are known to love statistics, this book provides quite a few. For example, that 82 percent of Americans think nuclear arms are the major threat, while only 39 now mention &quot;protecting and promoting human rights in foreign countries&quot; (down from 58 percent in 1990). Schulz is more than an average scholar however - he is director of Amnesty International's US section, and a former minister of the church. He mixes facts with lots of human interest. He recalls how he brought Northern Ireland's David Trimble to tears, his hand on Trimble's arm. How he was cold-shouldered when presenting an Amnesty report on police violence to the NYPD, only to record within a year that the NY force had raped an immigrant from Haiti, and shot an unarmed man 41 times. How he was shocked by learning that a total of 18 foreign businessmen had been trapped and convicted by the Chinese government. And how he has been confronted with gruesome abuses by the Taliban, the US trained Salvadorian army, the Indonesian para-military and many others, in his everyday Amnesty business. This is a pamflet, yet it covers a large array of topics (including business, the environment, epidemics and humanitarian interventions) and is very soundly documented (in hundreds of footnotes). Schulz shows convincingly that Americans may be do a lot of good (they spend over $190 billion annually on charities) but more often than not do not think, or sympathize, much beyond their borders.  As a European reader, I had occasional difficulties with the rhetoric, but was thrilled enough to read through the entire book on a Sunday afternoon. What is it that makes the US such a source of both indifference and commitment? Just the other day, I saw an Italian tourist in Amsterdam with a Martin Luther King quote on her T-shirt: &quot;I fear less the words of those that are violent than the silence of those who are honest.&quot; The quote, by the way, was in Italian. What more prove do we need that American examples can be international standards of human rights awareness
