
"Lost at sea", a phrase that makes the blood run cold. Even worse, was the fate of the East India vessel, the Grosvenor, in 1782, shipwrecked off the coast of Africa, at the mercy of the elements and indigenous peoples.

Heading home to London from Calcutta under Captain John Coxon, the rigid social apparatus that governed English society in India applied on board the Grosvenor as well. Those of wealth and position received the same deference they enjoyed on land, the quality passengers purchasing pride of place on an Indiaman overloaded with valuable cargo. On one disastrous night, as the ship crashed into the unfriendly coast of Pondoland in Africa, any social advantages disintegrated as the survivors struggled toward land. Castaways all, the survivors were faced with a terrible dilemma, whether to remain near the wreck or attempt to reach the safety of a settlement. 

Without authoritative leadership, the 126 survivors made critical errors in judgment, intimidated by the indigenous natives, their weapons useless without gunpowder and little knowledge of the unexplored terrain. There was a curious lack of heroism among the men who made it to shore, as they scrambled to save themselves, ignoring the plight of those less able. 

The fate of the women and children left behind in the march became a source of many unanswered questions, the grist of myth, finally a black mark against the honor of the East India Company. Only a handful of the original 140 passengers survived, along with frequent rumors of white women assimilated into the local tribes. The fertile imagination of the English fed upon the fearful distortions that saw the delicate white women and children at the mercy of "savages", when their ultimate peril was at the hands of the men who should have protected them. The concept of "women and children first" had yet to be accepted into the social fabric of shipboard etiquette.

Society as they knew it all but disappeared, as people of quality were reduced to the same desperate straights as the common folk. Even more shocking, however, is the lack of cohesion among the survivors. There is little evidence of the espirit d'corps of later such misadventures. Instead, various groups continually splintered off from the original number, drastically reducing the chances of the more helpless, especially the women, children and the wounded. Captain Coxon was indeed a villain. Although not literally responsible once they were on land, Coxon did accept the leadership position, a mistake that was to cost the majority of the survivors their lives. His arrogance and misconduct did not come to light for many years, due to the lack of accurate reporting.

Taylor's account of the Grosvenor is compelling, drawn from a variety sources, especially since the tragedy occurred before journalism was freed from conjecture and common gossip, when any outrageous rumor was printed as truth. That and the paucity of written documentation led Taylor to sift through a century of supposition and lurid tales from India to England, including the fate of women living with natives, raising new families. Such gossip served as fodder for a years of bizarre tales and Taylor's painstaking research does much to clarify the fate of the Grosvenor survivors. Dramatic, heartrending  and shocking, Taylor proves that truth is indeed stranger than fiction. Luan Gaines/2005.


