When Ephron Vestrit, head of the Vestrit trading family of Bingtown becomes the third generation of his family to die onboard his Liveship, Vivacia, the ship "quickens" and becomes alive. Liveships, made of wizardwood, a magical substance so valuable that the four-generation old debt of the Vestrits is still being repaid, are vital to the success of Bingetown, a city-state that has a monopoly on trade with the Rain Wilds. With Ephron dead, the fate of Vivacia and the Vestrits rests on the outcome of a family struggle between his daughter, Althea, an accomplished sailor, and Kyle Haven, her sister Keffria's husband. To Althea's surprise, her father leaves Vivacia to her sister, who promptly hands it over to Kyle. Kyle plans to restore the family's fortunes by entering the slave trade, a trade which sensitive Liveships abhor, and Althea leaves home in disgust and despair to set out on her own in an attempt to prove herself worthy of the ship she has lost.

Vivacia will only sail with a blood member of her family onboard and, without Althea, Kyle must use his son, Wintrow, recently torn from his dream of the priesthood, to console the ship. Wintrow cannot decide between his hatred of the new life thrust upon him and his growing love for the ship.

To the south, in the Pirate Isles, Captain Kennit dreams of uniting the pirate townships under him as self-styled pirate king. He has set about capturing slave-ships and releasing the grateful slaves, which then crew the captured vessels in a growing pirate fleet under Kennit's control. The one thing he is missing is a Liveship.

Under the sea, a group of sea serpents is desperately seeking "She Who Remembers", to lead them somewhere unremembered for some equally important but forgotten purpose.

The Liveship Trader's Trilogy takes place in Jamaillia, Bingtown and the Pirate Isles, on the coast far to the south of the Six Duchies. The war in the north has interrupted the trade that is the lifeblood of Bingtown, and the Liveship Traders have fallen on hard times despite their magic sentient ships. At one time, possession of a Liveship, constructed of magical wizard wood, guaranteed a Trader's family prosperity. Only a Liveship can brave the dangers of the Rain Wild River and trade with the legendary Rain Wild Traders and their mysterious magical goods, plundered from the enigmatic Elderling ruins. Althea Vestrit expects her families to adhere to tradition, and pass the family Liveship on to her when it quickens at the death of her father. Instead, the Vivacia goes to her sister Keffria and her scheming Chalcedean husband Kyle. The proud Liveship becomes a transport vessel for the despised but highly profitable slave trade. 

Althea, cast out on her own, resolves to make her own way in the world and somehow regain control of her family's living ship. Her old shipmate Brashen Trell, the enigmatic woodcarver Amber and the Paragon, the notorious mad Liveship are the only allies she can rally to her cause. Pirates, a slave rebellion, migrating sea serpents and a newly hatched dragon are but a few of the obstacles she must face on her way to discovering that Liveships are not, perhaps, what they seem to be, and may have dreams of their own to follow.
