Steve Horn attempts so much in this book.  He covers the night time attack on Pearl Harbor during March 4, 1942.  The book opens with the Battle of Midway, covers American code-breaking, the development of aircraft-carrying submarines and the aircraft carrier, and the strategic bomber programs that Japan wasn't able to get off the ground.  There is a bit about the paper balloons used as a strategic bombing system, and the role that the Aleutian Islands played --other than as a diversion for the Midway attack in June, 1942.  As during the December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, radar detected and tracked the incoming bombers--but there wasn't anything that could intercept the two Emily flying boats at 1 AM on Oahu.  There were a dozen or so Boeing P-26 fighter planes, painted black, assigned the night interception mission, but these ancient aircraft didn't have the speed to catch the raiders.

I think that Steve Horn tried too much in one book.  No wonder--the simple story of the one raid would have made a fine magazine article.  More material is expected from a book.  I could quibble that the O2U and F4U were lumped together in an appendix as the same Corsair aircraft--the first was an observation airplane and the second was the famed fighter planed flown by the Black Sheep squadron--but the book has an index and a decent bibliography.  There are footnotes, but no photos.  Calling the firebomb bearing paper balloon campaign "one of America's first terrorist attacks" struck me as inaccurate--anybody remember the use of the Native American by France and England during the 18th Century or the abolitionist and pro-slavery terrorists of Kansas and Missouri prior to the Civil War?  Like the second Pearl Harbor raid, the balloons barely made the newspapers.

On the other hand, this book does detail a little-known raid that preceeded the Doolittle Raid by six weeks.  A major "character" in the story is the Kawanishi H8K "Emily" four-engined flying boat. It was fast, heavily armed, and (unusual for early-war Japanese aircraft) was armored.  With long range and its ability to operate from the ocean, the two flying boats refueled from Japanese submarines to extend their range during the March 4, 1942 operation.

I enjoyed this book and welcome it to my World War Two library, but I think that the author tried too much
