 
Most new jobs created in the United States today are the result of small businesses forming or expanding. Gone are the days when large manufacturers rapidly created hundreds or thousands of jobs to support their growing requirements. However, small businesses have special needs, not only to survive the early years but to sustain their foundational growth. Author Gary Harpst actively taps into these critical needs in Six Disciplines For Excellence.

As Harpst mentions in the Introduction, "figuring out the right things to do isn't nearly as difficult as continuing to do them over the long term". He continues by commenting why this book was written, "That passion is directed toward helping small businesses not only achieve excellence, but sustain it". Throughout the remainder of the book, Six Disciplines For Excellence integrates the best practices to grow a small business and unifies them into a interconnected plan. Furthermore, unlike most business books, Harpst cleverly focuses on implementation (how to) rather than simply principles. He states that this "book's content is focused 20% on principles and 80% on implementation".  

Six Disciplines For Excellence is composed of 10 chapters and an Epilogue. The first three chapters introduce the book and discuss the challenges of being a small business. The next six chapters each discuss one of the six disciplines. For example, chapter eight analyzes the fifth discipline entitled Innovate Purposely. In this invigorating chapter Harpst demonstrates how innovation works in concert with the other disciplines and how it should permeate the daily culture of a small business.

This is a book that should be read by everyone who leads a small business. Six Disciplines For Excellence has the clever ability to connect solid principles together with proven strategies to create a workable plan. It makes sense of the seemingly complex and fragmented problems facing any organization in a book that is colorful, easy to comprehend and well written. If you own, manage or lead a small business, this book will make you and your organization better!
