What a Morose book this is!  This is the first book that I have read by the Bronte sisters.  I was really looking forward to it.  It begins with the story of Mr. Lockwood entering the house of Heathcliff (Wuthering Heights) and the reader finding out that the people inhabiting the house are just nasty.  This includes Heathcliff, Hareton and Catherine (the younger).

Some have indicated that this is a love story. I am not so sure of that.  It is clear in the story that Heathcliff was in love with Catherine (the elder) and was deeply hurt when she married Edgar.  He goes off for three years and returns with money.  However, where and how he got his money is never explained in the story.

Now that he has returned, it is Heathcliff's intention to get revenge on those that he believed have wronged him.  This includes Hindley, Catherine's brother, Edgar, Hareton, Linton (his own son) and Isabella.  If he cannot get his revenge on those that wronged him, he will get it on the children of those that wronged him such as Hareton and Catherine (the younger).

Shortly after he returns, Catherine (the elder) dies but not before giving birth to her and Edgar's dauther Catherine.  By this time though, Heathcliff has married Isabella, Edgar's sister.  Heathcliff wants to get his hands on Thrushcross Grange since this is the home of Edgar and Catherine.  On the day after he is married to Isabella, he basically tells her that he married her to get possession of Thrushcross Grange.  

It is at this point that I realized that Heathcliff was an evil person.  It is also at this point that I no longer considered the novel to be a love story.  Heathcliff's love has now been turned into hatred.  He has one thing on this mind and that is to make those around him miserable.

When he returns to Wuthering Heights, Hindley is a drunk and an gambler.  Hindley's son Hareton will inherit Wuthering Heights but Heathcliff gives money to Hindley and now becomes the mortgagor of the property so that when Hindley dies Heathcliff becomes the owner of Wuthering Heights.  

If Edgar dies without Catherine being married she will inherit Thrushcross Grange.  When Edgar gets a letter from his sister, Isabella (remember that is Heathcliff's wife) that she is dying and wants him to take care of her son, Linton (Heathcliff's son too), he goes and gets him from near London.  On the night of their return, Heathcliff sends Joseph to get him.  The next day Linton leaves to live a Wuthering Heights.  Given his condition, he gets Linton to correspond with Catherine but since Nelly and Edgar are standing in the way of their marriage, he forces Catherine to marry Linton.  Therefore, when Edgar dies Thrushcross Grange becomes the property of Linton.  Linton, being sickly through the whole bood, soon dies and wills the Thrushcross Grange to Heathcliff.  At this time, Catherine, Hareton, and Heathcliff are all living at Wuthering Heights and he rents Thrushcross Grange to Mr. Lockwood.

At the time Catherine (the elder) dies, Heathcliff asks that her ghost haunt him.  In the last couple of chapters, it appears that Heathcliff continually sees Catherine's ghost.  Heathcliff fails to eat and eventually dies.  At that time, Hareton and Catherine are falling in love, which is the only happy part in the book (other than Heathcliff dying).

All in all, this is a very dark story.  This is a story of love (at first) and then hatred.  This is a story of how hatred can destroy a person as well as those around him.  It is a good story but I don't consider this a love story.  Heathcliff is an evil person that never changes his ways of making other miserable.  He enjoys making other miserable.  I liked the book but it is just a little too dark for me to give it a five star rating
