Those who read WUTHERING HEIGHTS only because their 10th grade English teacher mandated it, often return to Emily Bronte's classic years later for a return visit to the howling moor without quite knowing why.  There is a sense of place to the novel that resists ready explanation, and it is perhaps that lingering memory of the triangle that connects Heathcliff, Catherine, and the moor that demands a closer examination with a more mature perspective.

Heathcliff and Catherine have a stormy love affair, but the book is not simply a reworking of the romantic potboilers so current then. Nor is it just a cataloguing of nature, though nature is present even from the opening pages.  What elevates WUTHERING HEIGHTS to a level not reached before and only a very few times since is Bronte's unique ability to take a nature that is merely descriptive in the hands of a lesser and infuse its wildness and unbridled power into a man who is the walking symbol of that power.  

Bronte divides nature in the macrocosmic sense--birds, trees, wind, rocks--into two distinct elements. There is the low key, quiet, and peaceful image of nature so beloved by Wordsworth and locates it in the peaceful Thrushcross Grange. It is here where the cultured Linton family live.  Every image that Bronte uses is pacific in scope. One wonders whether the Lintons even hear the same whoosh of wind that resounds in Heathcliff's ears. Less obvious to the careless reader is the enervating subtext that infuses the Grange. Bronte drops several hints that the Grange, for all its peaceful charm, has a charm that is incapable of propagating itself in the emerging harshness of the deterministic ruthless way of life that just then was gathering steam.  Catherine is a woman with one foot in that world of culture, manners, and -lingering slow death.  Even after she leaves Heathcliff for Edgar Linton, Catherine tells Nelly that she is quite aware of the differences between the worlds of the Grange and of Wuthering Heights: "My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods. Time will change it...My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath." Here, Bronte takes the homely images of nature and personalizes them as the metaphorical difference between that which Catherine merely finds pleasant (The Grange) and that which she finds necessary (Wuthering Heights).  Then there is the twisted, stormy, and unpredictable nature of Wuthering Heights, where Heathcliff grew and it is there that he suffered untold horrors that taught him that for him to survive, he had to be as violent as the winds which surrounded him. 

It is less certain whether Bronte wishes the reader to excuse Heathcliff's unspeakable cruelty once he reverses economic position with the effete Edgar Linton.  But perhaps it is less to the point to seek to place blame for Heathcliff's revenge than to acknowledge that it is definitely useless to blame a bolt of lighting for striking its unwary victim.  Heathcliff, as the walking symbol of Wuthering Heights, is that bolt which strikes out in a manner not unlike the way that he himself had been struck many times as a boy.  Once Heathcliff has his revenge in the humbling of the Lintons, a revenge which costs him his beloved Catherine, it remains for the next generation--the young Cathy and Hareton--to remind Heathcliff that revenge must not be permitted to outlive its proper time, and for the new residents of both Grange and the Heights, that time has long passed.  What emerges, then, from a second reading of WUTHERING HEIGHTS is Bronte's firm commitment to recreate a clash of conflicting and very nearly mutually exclusive emotions--revenge and forgiveness--that cause each new generation to learn to temper the former with the latter and thus retain their basic humanity. 
