"I Love..." by Minnie is an adorable 124 page book. Nearly every two page spread features text explaining something that the author loves and the opposite page is a full color painted illustration. The writing is from the perspective of a girl and many of the illustrations picture an adorable little girl who looks to be eight or nine years old.

I first read this book cover to cover, in one sitting, and enjoyed every minute of it. We are reading the `simple pleasures' and the innocent, timeless, little things that the author is grateful for having experienced in her girlhood. 

A unique thing about this book is the way that the author was able to transport me into the mind of a child, so that even I was able to imagine the happiness she feels about her appreciation and joy for these things.

I read the book aloud to my two boys (aged 5 and 8) and was unsure how they would respond to the book. They first commented that it was a long book, and asked if I planned to read the whole thing to them, but then later they both begged me to not stop reading it, so we read it straight though to the end in one sitting. They were laughing out loud at some of the favorite things, and they agreed that they also loved some of these same things. 

Upon the second reading I noticed that the book includes references that make it clear that she loves her brother, her mother and father and her grandparents. The little girl's world is not an isolated little bubble, but one that includes family, extended family, school mates, and friends.  I am also struck by the timeless nature of these things, and many modern notions are missing from the book (television, music, and cell phones). The little girl has a close and loving relationship with her mother. I am sure that little girls would love to own this book and they'd love to have their mother read it aloud to them.

I feel this book is also a good read for adults, it would make a nice gift book for someone who likes to celebrate simple pleasures and gratitude for the little things that make life enjoyable.

Disclosure: I received a free copy of this book for the purpose of writing a review of it on my blog. This review is a shortened version of my original review as it appears on my blog
