It's winter in Quebec and Dr. Temperance Brennan, forensic anthropologist for the province, has a lot to deal with besides the below-freezing temperatures as DEATH DU JOUR, the second novel in Kathy Reichs' Temperance Brennan series, begins.  Tempe has been called to exhume the remains of a nun, Sister Elisabeth Nicolet, who lived a century earlier and is now being considered by the Catholic church for sainthood.  But there's a problem:  The bones aren't where they're supposed to be.  When Tempe and her crew finally do find the bones in a strange, small coffin buried in the recesses of a decaying church on the property, Tempe discovers another complication:  The nun may not have been who the church thought she was.

Later that same night, Tempe gets an urgent phone call from one of her coworkers:  A residence is on fire north of Montreal, arson is expected...and there are victims:  seven of them, and two are babies no more than four months old.  Tempe is being called in to examine the bodies.

Two days later, an 18-year-old pregnant prostitute is discovered hanging naked from a tree in a suburb of Montreal with strange bite marks and slashes all over her body.  Cause of death:  mauling by canines.  

Meanwhile, Tempe continues to investigate the history of Elisabeth Nicolet, and her search takes her to McGill University to the office of Daisy Jeannotte, a charismatic and strange Southern transplant who specializes in religious studies at the university.  Daisy's assistant, Anna Goyette, reacts strangely when Daisy catches her talking to Tempe.  A week later, Anna disappears.

To top it all off, Tempe's sister Harry has arrived in Quebec and enrolled in courses with a company called Inner Life Empowerment, which promises to cleanse the mind and body to prepare them for cosmic awakening.  Harry, a flighty and difficult woman to live with, further complicates Tempe's relationship with Detective Andrew Ryan.  Needless to say, Tempe, who is in Quebec only until spring break ends at UNC-Charlotte, where she teaches anthropology, has a full three weeks of investigation and exhumation--and she looks forward to going home to relax.

But when she arrives at her home in North Carolina, more work is waiting for her.  Two bodies are discovered on a research island off the coast of South Carolina, and like the prostitute in Montreal, the cause of death is found to be mauling by dogs.  Furthermore, links are discovered between these two victims and the arson victims, all leading Tempe and Ryan, who has come down from Quebec to aid in the investigation, to a mysterious commune far back in South Carolina's low country.  And now, Tempe hasn't heard from Harry for weeks, Elisabeth Nicolet's history is beginning to take shape, Tempe's relationship with Ryan is beginning to heat up, and Tempe herself is threatened once again as her investigation leads her closer to the truth--and closer to discovering how she can save her sister.

So, obviously, there is a lot happening in DEATH DU JOUR.  Reichs' second novel has an intricate plotline, but not as convoluted as you might think.  Her writing is clear, her details pertinent, her formula expertly crafted.  Readers of DEJA DEAD will recognize Tempe's ironic narrative voice, and Reichs expands on her heroine gracefully in this follow-up novel.  We meet more of Tempe's family--her sister, her nephew--and learn more about the other half of her job as a member of the faculty at UNC.  She emerges as an honest and believable heroine with secret motivators and a colorful past.

Some other reviewers seem to find the coincidences that occur in DEATH DU JOUR off-putting.  And they're right to point out the coincidences:  They abound in this book.  The fact that the case expands from Quebec to the Carolinas--the two places Tempe lives--seems far-fetched.  And it is, of course, downright unbelievable that ALL of the cases Tempe is working on are somehow linked.  But that's why Reichs has written a fictional novel rather than an autobiography.  That's why Tempe is a Reichs stand-in in these novels:  Fiction gives a forensic anthropolgist a lot more liberties (and opportunities) than does fact.  Who says a novel--especially an exciting murder mystery like this one--has to reflect real life?  It doesn't.  So yes, monumental coincidences do occur in DEATH DU JOUR, but those coincidences are overshadowed by above-average writing, a vivid heroine, and an exciting plot line.  They are overshadowed by interesting information about how entomologists use insect analysis to determine date and time of death, descriptions of skeletal reconstruction, and stunning prose taking readers from the warmth and peace of the Southeastern coast to the frigid chill and eerie darkness of a Northern ice storm.  DEATH DU JOUR is a triumph, an exciting, sprawling, intricate novel full of surprising twists and unforgettable characters.  Reichs' formula is working so far!  One thing, though:  It's about time for Tempe to get a gun
