Never mind that I am dismayed by the entire "analytic turn" in twentieth-century philosophy; never mind that I disagree with the physicalist view of the mind; never mind that I regard some form of  rationalism as, in the final analysis, the only genuinely empirical  philosophical outlook. I really enjoy reading David Malet Armstrong's work.

Not that I agree with him very often! But he is a wonderfully engaging  writer on philosophical topics. And in this volume he is recapping (and  building on) some two or three decades' worth of effort in the construction  of what he hopes is a plausible empiricist metaphysics.

He expounds clearly  and lucidly on the sorts of things there ultimately are; whether there are  universals; the nature of causality and scientific law; what empiricists  should do with problematic entities like numbers and sets; the nature of  possibility and necessity, and what in the world an empiricist can mean by  either one; and any number of interesting side points -- always clearly,  always interestingly, and always ordered by Armstrong's tremendous  organizational skills.

(The title of the book, by the way, expresses his  view that the universe consists of "states of affairs," a state  of affairs being one of the following: (a) the possession of a property --  which he takes, I think correctly, to be a universal -- by what he calls a  "thin particular," which is a sort of coat-hanger for properties;  or (b) the obtaining of a relation between/among two or more such  particulars.)

Armstrong has one truly remarkable practice that makes it  easy for philosophical "opponents" like me to read and appreciate  his work: he is always careful to state what he calls his  "fall-back" positions, namely the positions to which he would  retreat if he found out his present views are false. His own example (from  the introduction to this volume): if he had to give up  "physicalism" with regard to the mind, he would be driven to  dualism rather than to materialism. (And amen to _that_.)

As Armstrong  himself is clearly aware, this sort of approach is extremely helpful. It is  a most congenial style of exposition, of course, but it is also a fine way  to keep philosophical dialogue going between "opposing"  philosophical camps: a dualist has a sort of "second-order"  agreement with Armstrong, who is not actually a dualist right now but  _would_ be one _if_ . . .

It seems almost irrelevant and even ungracious to  add that I don't actually have all that many first-order agreements with  him! I think, for example, that Armstrong is mistaken to regard all  relations between "states of affairs" as external relations; I  think he should have abandoned physicalism already; I think he has been  altogether too much influenced by Russell and Wittgenstein, especially as  regards "logical atomism"; I think his "thin  particular" itself consists of universals; I think "direct  realism" (with regard to perception) is attractive but ultimately  untenable; and I suspect that if he examined the presuppositions on which  his metaphysic is based, he would find himself committed to a much fuller  rationalism. And so on.

But I confess Armstrong has made me think harder  about each of these points. He defends his theses about as well as they  could possibly be defended -- always, as I said, carefully stating his  "fall-back positions." And his book is a workmanlike answer to  earlier critics of analytic philosophy who didn't think it was altogether  cricket for the young Turks to (try to) demolish speculative metaphysics  without providing any positive accounts of their own.

Armstrong has written  a fine book here, and it will undoubtedly be a contribution of longstanding  importance to the analytic/empiricist literature. It can be read  profitably, and will be enjoyed, even by thinkers who disagree with it. I  offer myself as evidence in support of that contention
