The American dream was the idea which guided us through the early days of the republic.  We were the first nation to be founded on an ideal, "toward a more perfect union, the establishment of justice."   This dream provides the best common ground on which to build the American future.  Dwight Eisenhower felt that "freedom has its life in the hearts, the actions, the spirit of men and so it must be daily earned and refreshed -- else like a flower cut from its life-giving roots, it will wither and die."

Unless a people are educated an enlightened, it is idle to expect the continuance of civil liberty or the capacity for self-government.  The MacArthur Fellowship allows normal intelligent Americans to find their dream.  It is a no-strings award given to an individual for being a committed and active student.  You can't apply for this fellowship' you don't even know if you are under consideration.  The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation hires one hundred authorities from a variety of field each year to nominate potential fellows.  They serve anonymously and diligently.  It's designed to be a bolt from the blue, a reward for work done and an incentive to keep going.  "Professional scientists feel threatened by these up-an-coming geniuses; Ph.D. is woven into the very fabric of their sense of self-worth."  My son worked hard for his Merit Scholarship to attend the University of Chicago where he earned his PhD in Astronomy.  But, let me tell you, just getting that degree after ten hard years of work and study does not guarantee success.  He's had his highs and lows with NASA, but in a way he has achieved part of his American Dream.

Dan Rather, my favorite news anchor, is from Texas (and proud of it).  Previously, he has written DEADLINES & DATELINES, THE CAMERA NEVER BLINKS, and THE PALACE GUARD.  Some years ago, he was mugged on the streets of New York City, but it didn't faze him.  He continued to live his American Dream to enhance his fans' lives and perform his reporting duties with honor and truth
