I don't know if this is one of the essential historical works, but it is definitely one of the most fun.  Kenneth Davis strives to provide a remarkably comprehensive and centrist survey of American history by addressing a series of questions that structure the work as a whole.  For the most part, he articulates the standard current few of the various figures he treats.  

All major periods in American history are treated well and in pretty good detail.  Because I've been a pretty intent student of American history for some time, I'm not sure that I learned all that much, but I did find it to be a great review session.  One of the things that I liked most about the book was the "Must Read" recommendations where Davis indicates books that simply must be read.  I had actually read about half of these, but I've added several titles to my rather cumbersome reading lists.

The one place where Davis lapses a bit, I thought, was dealing with the Clinton years.  Truth be told, in a book like this it is probably a mistake to examine recent history.  We are too much influenced by the mood of the moment.  Most careful writing about the Clinton years has revealed how embattled he was, not how awful he was.  Davis's assessment of Clinton was, in fact, remarkably ill-informed, and he cites as "Must Reads" some very odd titles indeed, while ignoring most of the best books on that decade (i.e., that were written before the latest edition of the book).  The view of Clinton that prevailed circa 1998-2002 is quickly fading from view.  In GREATNESS IN THE WHITE HOUSE, Murray and Blessing convincingly argue that evaluations of presidents over time tend to deemphasize the force of their personality and linger over their actual achievements.  This is why for most scholars Reagan's reputation is steadily fading, despite the almost overwhelming force of his personality at the time.  During the nineties many--and David is guilty of this--obsessed over Clinton's actual or supposed crimes and failed to evaluate Clinton over the actual achievements of his administration.  I do not believe Clinton to be a great president, but neither do I view him as a bad one.  In future editions of his books, I would prefer seeing Davis stop twenty years from the time of the revision.

One other issue:  bias.  In many of the reviews here one seems mention of bias.  Interestingly, most scholars quite rightly ignore issues of bias.  But to the poorly education, bias seems to be an issue of overwhelming gravity.  The truth is that honest scholarship truly is possible, and while everyone has a point of view, having a point of view doesn't mean that you actively engage in twisting facts.  A recent surprising example was Conrad Black's biography of F.D.R.  Though Black is himself quite conservative politically, his biography of Roosevelt is quite balanced and fair.  In other words, he doesn't skew the facts to fit his own political beliefs.  There are books where authors ignore the facts of history (Ann Coulter's TREASON is merely one example--and by "facts" I really do mean events that any minimally rational person will agree on), but the truth is that most books do not.  Daniel Boorstin is a conservative historian, but he doesn't write every book with a conservative axe to grind.  Someone with left-leaning politics isn't necessarily skewing everything to his position.  Not everyone writes with an agenda (say, like Coulter does) and many write merely to narrate history.  I think that is what Kenneth Davis does here.  Myself, I think the temptation to talk about "bias" at the drop of a hat is misguided and should in general be jettisoned.  I'd prefer to focus on whether a historical narrative is accurate or not
