There are plenty of books around on the technical aspects of
making money. This one deals with the behavioral ones. Donald Trump is correct in saying that you must have "right ideas" to make money. By that , he refers to practicality and the probability of implementation. 

He criticizes equivocation because "analysis paralysis" tends to prevent us from taking definitive action in time to close the deal. Great deals can come and go very quickly.
For some people, they come and go while an endless process of
analysis paralysis takes place. The author advises managers to
keep the door open so that a free flow of ideas can come all the
time. 

Ultimately, Donald Trump advises to go with your "gut"
feel on an important decision. This is so because our feelings
tend to reflect an overall holistic impression which is correct
more than we think. It's important to connect with people 
by telling interesting anecdotes . On major deals, "do your homework".

The author asks that we attempt to craft "win-win" situations
in negotiations. Consider what the other side wants and advance
proposals based upon a concensus formulation. The book explains
the importance of having great assistants who can be counted on
to work hard. Despite the existence of a strong organization,
a manager needs to assume full responsibility and make timely
decisions- otherwise opportunities migrate elsewhere.

This volume will help you make money by structuring the decision
process in an action-oriented way. The methodologies will steer
you in the direction of thinking about opportunities and
acting upon the ones most promising. The bad managers suffer
from "analysis paralysis", "decision-making incapability"
and a whole host of adverse behavioral hangups which get in the
way of seizing upon good or great opportunities.

The author gives advice which is not written in books-per se.
These maxims are in the nature of business common sense and
judgment developed over the period of many years and complex
deal-making
