Ironically, Dennett (and Dawkins and Darwin) provide sophisticated believers with the best tools ever for understanding how a God might have purposefully injected the human memosphere with permanent belief in himself and endowed his believers with the sense of purpose, intentionality, goal-seeking, and teleology that keeps religion alive and growing. A God can accomplish all that *simply* by imbuing the Universe with Darwinian selection, since all Darwinian systems exhibit an epiphenomenal teleology so realistic that we might as well just define real intentionality as "the behavior of individuals (memes or genes) struggling for survival in darwinian system."

The theologian / cosmologist now has all he needs for a consistent reconstruction of religion. Occam's razor cannot favor the anthropic principle against a Darwin-backed teleological principle: the proposition that a purposeful God imbued a Universe with intrinsic purpose and with creatures capable of supporting a memosphere with purpose. As to the unreality of such a God, it would be no less real than the laws of physics and Darwinism, or, for that matter, less real than any computer program or a set of algebraic rules; but also no more material than those. The sophisticated believer no longer needs to reify his God as a tree or an idol or a human. 

I will point out that the best thought-out mystic traditions have held such abstractions, amazingly clearly, for millennia, so Dennett is not addressing the religious as deeply as he might be, but this is a small critique since the vast majority of believers operate at a much more shallow level. I credit Dennett for explaining in some detail how, at this shallow level, the God meme is and will continue to be a powerful performer in the memosphere. However, he seems not to realize that science and Darwinism have given the deepest theological thinkers the best boon they ever had for reconstruction. 

So I conclude that Dennett has set the stage for getting past the polemic that science and religion (at least sophisticated religious thinking) will forever be opposed. I don't think that's true. I would argue that the next phase is to work on moral synthesis, and, for that, science is way behind. 
