The large impact forces will be felt from increased trends and interest for Biotech agricultural Jobs and automated manufacturing robotics.  Corporations will embrace strategic position seeking global market share and ravage for larger profits earnings.   The borderless nation will take jobs from local communities and local communities will have a difficult time accepting globalization logic but remain obsequiously quiet, as jobs are relocated to China, Mexico, or India.   Companies will act according rules of laissez-faire capitalism having insignificant torque apply by political policy restraining hopes and aspirations promised by protectionism. CAFA and NAFA further reinforcing the doctrine that national borders and the fact national governments can not limit commerce.  Global financial investment in emerging markets will remain popular, but the most significant upward trend will be the exponential interweaving of communications, computers, and media.  New media will enhance the power of the government.

Individual power to direct political change is threatened, weakened by indifference caused by media propaganda.  Topics such as illegal immigration, replacement fertility rates, and the direction of currency flows are communicated as both complex and non-understandable with the perception that the individual can not make a difference.  People are responding with resignation, as demonstrated by decreased voter participation.  However, there will be 1 to 5% of the companies positioned for advantage from the social-economic change in the 21st century.  Writers like Kenichi Ohmae, George Glider, and Ben Wattenberg are the evangelical preachers of global capitalist.

Higher quality productivity fundamentals shift rising confidence towards Japan, Korea, East Asia trade states (India, Singapore, Thailand), Germany, Switzerland, and EC as a whole, claim: high savings, impressive levels of investment in new plant and equipment, excellent education, skilled workforce, manufacturing culture with many more engineers than lawyers, trade surpluses, and high quality and high value added manufactured products.   Confidence does not necessarily need to be tangibly proven, but may exist in the perceived expectations of higher quality from investors.  As a result, financial funds will choose too move billions of dollars into these countries for growth funding.  

Environmental reforms will not offer problem solving resolution; instead, they will only slow down the CO2 emissions. Deforestation, famine, and climate disruption will peak.  Policies will be moot against practices that deforestation.  For example, India's population has lead to 2/3 deforestation.  Political perspective will become shorter still rather than designed for long term beneficial prudence.  Reforms lack enforcement power as new forces for global change make national instruments irrelevant.  The state will remain the local nexus for authority and loyalty.  Humankind instinctively avoids the un-comfort of change.  Reforms cost money.  Debate will materialize as politicians and special interest groups contend between parties to prioritize spending allocations.

Environmental pressures are likely to continue transform factories.  Factories will be regulated to reduce emissions by installing more efficient use of energy, filter systems, and extract devices.   Public works projects will spend tax dollars at record level rates to build public transportation and subsidies alternative fuels designed to reduce dependency on foreign oil.  Government power will futilely believe it can create alternate employment and facilitate participation and cooperation by guaranteeing access to the markets in the hope of gain deeper control of capitalism oriented countries.

Competitiveness in the 21st century starts with incentives that increase national savings, slash budget deficits, enhance R&D levels and bring new products to market, avoid diverting to many resources to the military, focus on well designed and reliable products, gain employment through opportunities through retraining, and raising the educational standards.  Rich countries statistically have fewer children than poor countries per capita.  The number of children is not the problem.  The problem is marketing hype that convinces millions of workers to migrate to cosmopolitan areas seeking work, only to find no work.  The mass movement from agricultural supportive geography towards urban real estate scarcity disproportionately burdens the homeowner as wages large percentage of pay are diverted to a mortgage payment or rent.  High cost of living reduces family size and hammers at the family as the basic unit.

Conservation does not work.  France is a better economic model than Sweden and Israel.  Sweden enforces policies to reduced CO2, implements a higher fuel tax than most countries, abolished nuclear energy, launched massive large scale development projects, and forces people to shift transportation from automobiles to cycles.  Large scale public projects did not elevate Japan out of depression, nor did Japan's radical monetary supply injections neither stimulate the economy, nor did zero interest incentives making money cheap attract business ventures.  

France is better positioned for the future. France is the largest producer of nuclear power in the Europe. France does not have a large standing army nor does it burden itself with heavy military expenditures.   Germany may be another hidden powerhouse.   Hedge funds are providing the financial availability giving Germany the financial opportunity to grow.  Israel of recent has gained in popularity touting world class science and technology prowess.

Women roles have changed.  Technology creates new jobs and destroys old ones.   The new jobs are being competed for by men and women.   When education is widely available to women, average family size drops sharply; women delay starting a family in lieu of getting a career by an average of four years; career women postpone children through heavy usage of contraceptives; and if Japan wants to return to higher fertility rates, more than technology and cash payments to have children will be required.

Economic growth is necessary for a decent standard of living, good health care, excellent education, and more leisure.   The benefits of technology and innovation do not flow evenly and the wealth is not distributed to all.   Falling behind means failure to rethink the future, retrain, and retool for the new jobs.   

The speed of human assault on nature has increased: whole countries may deforest, topsoil deprived, and critical ozone depleted.   A threshold point exists where there can not be a response because there will not be sufficient capital, skilled labor, or scientific solutions capable of fixing the damage.  The critical issues of deforestation or ignored and animal and plant extinct species are emphasized further exasperating any political hope for prudence and long term management of the forests.
