     A previous reviewer for Amazon has compared Maria Rosa Menocal's THE ORNAMENT OF THE WORLD unfavorably to Richard Fletcher's MOORISH SPAIN.  By contrast, I find them quite complementary.  The difference is a matter of style: Menocal's book is philosophical, impressionistic, attempting to penetrate the "essence" of Muslim Spain, which she views as a "toleration of contradictions" and provide a vivid portrait of some of the individuals whom it produced.  Fletcher's work is by contrast a conventional narrative history, although certainly a well-written one.  One comes away from both books with the same conclusion: that compared with its contemporaries (as well as what was to come in Spain), Al Andalus was remarkable for its religious tolerance, aesthetic sensibility, and scholarly and scientific achievements.  Its contribution to Western civilization was so great that we should really speak of our "Judeo-Christian-Islamic heritage" instead of just our "Judeo-Chrisian" one.  That Fletcher chooses, in his final chapter, to negate all that he has said in his previous ones by judging Al-Andalus by standards which did not even exist until the Enlightenment is the book's greatest fault, and cost him a star, for surely the rest of the book deserves five.
     There are of course other differences between the books.  Having read Menocal first, I was under the impression that the Umayyad heir, Abd Al Rahman, crossed over to the Iberian peninsula in 711 and established his caliphate immediately in defiance of the Abbassid one in Baghdad, for in her quest for the essence of the culture, Menocal places little emphasis on the bare facts.  But from Fletcher I have learned that the first Muslim to cross over from Africa to Europe was a certain Tariq, who led one of those periodic upsurges of Berber conquest which occurred for reasons well analyzed by Ibn Khaldun (see p. 106) and who gave his name to Gibralter, which comes from the Arabic Jebel al Tariq or the Rock of Tariq.  And it seems the Umayyads did not dare to establish their own caliphate until the tenth century.  But these are minor details.  More important is the puzzle of the contradiction between Menocal's and Fletcher's characterizations of Peter the Venerable, abbot of Cluny: was he a proponent of the crusades, as Fletcher argues on p. 154, or an opponent of them, as Menocal argues on p. 184 of her book?  As he sought out a translation of the Quran before condemning it as did most of his contemporaries, I'm inclined to believe Menocal.  But Fletcher comes out ahead in his evaluation of the feuding taifa city-states which succeeded the Cordoban caliphate.  With her ahistorical focus on the "essence" of Al Andalus, Menocal views these as merely chips of the broken gem of the Cordoban kingdom, carrying on in some small measure its glory.  With the historical sweep of his vision, Fletcher grasps the fact that the collapse of the caliphate left it dangerously vulnerable, first to fundamentalist Berber conquerors and later, more ominously, to the Christian kingdoms to the north.  These practiced a policy of "divide and conquer", until there was only one Muslim kingdom left, Granada, which fell to the most ruthlessly intolerant of Christian monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella, with catastrophic results for both Jews and Muslims and repercussions which echo down to our own day.   
