I was at one time a research scientist, but not a physicist. I took a year of Quantum Mechanics, but certainly don't regard myself as very knowledgeable in this area or mathematics. Therefore, this review is coming from a space of being an educated layperson with a broad background and open mind. I think this is important to know before you read more of my review.

I think Peter Woit is brilliant and this book is not always easy to get your arms around. He is passionate about his position, he defends it well and this comes through loud and clear in his writing. As such, the book is engaging and would have even more impact on someone with a deeper background than myself. For the average person, it is a lot to digest.

With respect to string theory as such, I must admit that I am a fan of string theory. However, I must agree that it is difficult to test the validity of this theory via the scientific method at this point in time. I think the author is correct to point out that it lives on the border of philosophy and science. I think he is also filling a necessary gap in arguments in this area by pointing out string theories shortcomings and unexamined assumptions in-depth.

With all of the above said, I think as a cultural we are looking at a convergence of many different areas of knowledge and each of them exist in different domains, not all of which are accessible to the scientific method. For example, I know love exists, but yet I can't examine it under a microscope. My bottom line here is that at the forefront of science, we probably need to make some room for the imagination informed by different ways of knowing as Einstein suggested in his quote, "Imagination is greater than knowledge."

String Theory is an attempt to unify two vast domains in physics. It is very theoretical and ambitious. I personally think it has its place in science, but that it is important to understand the unspoken assumptions underlying the theory. Peter Woit does a great job of this. However, I find that he is a bit defensive, which is not entirely in the spirit of good science and to me seems overly reductionistic. Many great scientists are strong empiricists; however, in an area such as a unifying theory of physics, I feel there needs to be some wiggle room and an environment for dialog that benefits all branches of knowledge. I would not call the tone of this book dialogical, but I see that it is coming from passion in a strong belief that the scientific method can get to the bottom of almost any phenomenon.

This book seems to be very thoroughly researched and it provides many great references for further reading by topic. I think this is a big value add. I look forward to more writing in this area by Peter Woit because he has many worthwhile things to say. However, I hope he moves more toward the center in terms of his perspective. I don't think pure science alone is going to uncover a grand unifying theory that is testable any time soon. However, I think string theorists have a lot to teach us about the way forward and pushing science and human reason to the limits of our imagination.
