Wells wrote The Time Machine (1895) rather furiously; it seems the author was short of money and exploited his idea of future time travel, summing it up in a tightly constructed, very short novel. Most works that I have read from the nineteenth century are long-winded, purple-toned, velvet-like effluviums. This one is short and for once I would have liked a book a bit wordier.

Anyhow, the narrator, a sort of mad tinkerer, describes his visit 800,000+ years to the future. He finds two distinct inheritors of the human race: one smallish, simple-minded but joyful class of vegetarian people that live on the surface of the Earth (the Eloi), and one larger brute-like class of photophobic ground dwellers that perform most of the work for the Eloi, but unfortunately also eat them. Gone are most of the trappings of modern society. Humans have devolved into beautiful idiots and those that prey upon them.
   
Darwin's theories of evolution and natural selection were just beginning to take hold at the time Wells was writing and they obviously influence the work. I read somewhere that Wells took a university course taught by the biologist T.H. Huxley, who highly regarded Darwin's theories. Socialism also influences the book, with the Morlock underclass literally kept in the dark until they devolve into creatures that cannot tolerate light and have to rely on human flesh for food. Part of socialist theory is conflict theory; so instead of cannibalizing their own, the Morlocks eat the Eloi as a sort of vengeance.

Darkness, and the use of the dark as something mysterious from out which monsters may jump, is Gothic old hat for early writers of this genre. Wells uses the dark as the place where the Morlocks are banished, and where the Time-traveler believes the Morlocks have his stolen time machine. We feel the Gothic fear when he knows he has to go down there to attempt to get it back. Also, I wouldn't say Wells is the first to blend science with fiction either; see Hawthorne's "Rappaccini's Daughter", Mary Shelley's Frankenstein or Edgar Allan Poe. And is there something unsettling about the Time-traveler's undertaking with the childlike Weena? Her death at the hands of the Morlocks is tragic, but imagine the circus-spectacle she would make if the narrator brought her back to his time as he intended
