I just realized that selling a house in Harry's hometown of Crozet would be very hard to do given the amount of people who manage to get themselves killed there. Maybe the residents hold grudges a bit more than most, or maybe the area just seems to attract irritating people. I have to admit, many of the people who get killed there would drive me batty, but resorting to murder seems a little over the line answer to the problems.

Anyhow, having two cats and a dog myself, I can testify to their general nosiness and their tendency to get 'into' things you don't want them to get into. Over the years I've come to realize that scientists are definitely wrong about a lot of things concerning animals and their abilty to understand. When I was growing up I remember a rather famous scientist stating that animals don't 'play' and we should stop anthromorphizing them (meaning: don't give them human characteristics). Since then, I've seen significant amount of evidence that animals do 'play', and do many other things we don't understand. I won't go so far as to give them the ability to solve crime...but I am willing to suspend judgement so I can enjoy Brown's books.

Part of the reason Brown's books are enjoyable is the fact that she characterizes well. It would be lovely if we could all live in small towns where people really know each other and their quirks. But the reality is that most of us don't stop to take the time to get to know people and enjoy them, as well as the animals around us.

Harry always manages to be involved some way or another in these crimes. In this case the guy who was sitting behind her during Crozet's beloved basketball games, manages to keel over in the parking lot. Harry is nosy and very observant, and not only does she notice a needle-sized hole in the man's neck, she feels something 'whoosh' past her during the game. Funny thing is that, Brown never seems to go back to that particular clue...I kept waiting for it and it never was mentioned again (the 'whooshing'), though the cops and Harry did manage to figure out how the poison was administered to the man without leaving a needle or some other trace.

Other than that, this was typical fun with Harry and her beloved animals, who she can't live without. I know the feeling. My house will never be free of animal life completely while I have any say in it...much to the chagrin of my very neat mother!

Karen sAdle
