I must admit that I normally am not drawn to books about natural disasters, yet after seeing a documentary on the Galveston hurricane and finding this book, my curiosity overcame me.  Also, I had recently read and enjoyed Larson's book "The Devil in the White City" and felt certain that he would be a thorough and more than competent narrator to tell this story.  I must also admit that recent natural disasters only heightened my interest in the storm that is considered the deadliest hurricane in history.

On Saturday, September 8, 1900, Galveston, Texas was struck with deadly and intense force by a hurricane; by the time the storm was over, the city lay in unrecognizable shambles, and estimates of the dead would stretch to 10,000 people.  Those who survived the deadly storm were forever haunted by the events that preceded it, the chief one being Isaac Cline.  Cline was a meterologist with the burgeoning (and struggling) Weather Bureau, stationed in Galveston at a time when weather forecasting was still considered a matter of chance rather than science.  It was a time when America prided itself as too powerful and sufficient to worry that any thing, war or weather, could affect its course.  The hurricane that swept through the U.S. at the gates of Galveston would prove them wrong.

Erik Larson has done a tremendous job in recreating the events leading to the storm, and in describing the hurricane itself.  Using first-hand accounts, along with his own imaginings, Larson puts the reader front and center to experience the storm along with its victims.  It is an achingly beautiful picture of destruction centered on one man's pride and another man's folly.  Many often try to rewrite history, to write about themselves after events in order to enhance their image in the eyes of the beholder; Isaac Cline (and his superior) tried to do just that, to magnify the role that they played in the Galveston disaster.  Larson examines all angles and paints a picture of Cline as a man who was haunted for the rest of his days by hurricanes.  This led to groundbreaking research in the field, but also left him forever questioning his actions on that fateful day.  Could more have been done if he had heeded his fears, the signs, the warnings from Cuba?  

"Isaac's Storm" is quickly-paced, at times it even reads like a novel, intensifying and quickening as the storm builds to its destructive climax.  Larson's writing is well-researched and so finely crafted that he could draw the attention of the unlikeliest range of readers to his works.  If there is one flaw with "Isaac's Storm" it is the lack of photographs to accompany the horrific happenings, but perhaps Larson's vivid word pictures are enough
