Patrick O'Brian must have sailed the high seas of the Napoleonic Era in a past life.  There is no other explanation of how he could create such a vibrant, expansive, perfectly tailored world as he did in his stellar Aubrey-Maturin series.

"Desolation Island" is the fifth book in the series, and O'Brian in many ways is just hitting his stride . . . which is amazing considering the high quality of the first five books.  "DI" bears the same style and action-packed plot as the first four novels, and yet brings completely new perils for the characters . . . and, most importantly, the characters continue to grow and evolve along with those perils.

In many series, by the fifth book, the characters have reached superhero status and the series begins to play out.  At some point, the dangers of the next novel cannot hope to outweigh the cumulative heft of the dangers faced in the previous novels, so there is a sense of "well, if X lived through dangers 1, 2, 3, and 4, there is no way that this new danger 5 is going to get X."  O'Brian neatly avoids this problem by having Aubrey and Maturin encounter completely new dangers at sea.

What is the worst threat posed in "DI"? Is it Aubrey's ability to maintain command of a ship while charged with delivering prisoners (murderers and cutthroats) to Botany Bay?  Is it the lethal outbreak of plague while at sea, laying low prisoner and sailor alike and testing Dr. Maturin to his limits?  Is it the brilliant, cunning Dutch captain in charge of a mighty Dutch 74-gun frigate that tries to track down Aubrey's new-old ship, the aged Leopard?  Or is it the gutting of the Leopard's hull in icy seas, followed by a near mutiny as the Leopard nearly founders?  

Or, perhaps worst of all (to Jack Aubrey, at any rate), the presence of women on board?

O'Brian continues to plumb the depths of his characters as they sail the Seven Seas, and both Aubrey and Maturin continue to evolve as wholly capable and wholly human figures.  Warts and all, you cannot help but love them and thank O'Brian for introducing us to them and their wonderful seafaring world.  Cheers, Mr. O'Brian
