Voted for a 4.5 STARS.

Victor Cherkashin is frank and candid from the very beginning.  He informs the reader that he has tried to avoid falling "into the trap of polemics," that this is no James Bond-style novel, that he makes his "views about the KGB, the CIA and Soviet and American politics and affairs clear," and that he has not tried to "aggrandize my career on KGB."  He also touches on the subject of how his memoir has caused some retired-KGB agents to denigrate his name in the Russian press or veteran circles.

After finishing this captivating and intriguing read, I can say, that Cherkashin has been true to his mission that he outlined in the Preface.  If there is one book on espionage you want to read, I would highly recommend this one.

The read is mostly chronological, outlining his early life, his career start with the KGB, his advancement within this spy agency, and his multinational work abroad.

This memoir does an excellent job at psychologically looking at the secretive, spy, and detective mouse and cat work of the CIA and KGB.  The spies catch spies business.  One revealing detail was that Cherkashin, as a high ranking officer, spends 70 to 80% of his time just filling out paper and communicating back and forth with HQ in Moscow.

He does give specifics regarding handling some recruits and spies.  Cherkashin also talks about the job of handling the two greatest American spies to work for "mother Russia" - Robert Hanssen and Aldrich Ames.  Cherkashin is also keen on mentioning some top secret and super-tech CIA projects that were uncovered in or around Soviet Union's borders (eavesdropping operations).  He never gives too much detail, as he knows that some info is still sensitive.  His conclusion that "Despite the billions of dollars spent on counterintelligence, almost all exposed spies are betrayed by other agents" is quite telling.

What surprised me the most, is how the author Cherkashin (with the aid of the editor Gregory Feifer) discusses freely his background, his love for Russia and Russian culture, his family, his dangerous operations, his fears and memories of victories, his rage and his cunningness during counterintelligence operations in such a casual manner.  It really felt like the author was carrying on a normal conversation with me, and he was giving his testimony of what it means to work for the KGB, and what the job of a Handler is.  And he speaks with patriotic pride, with honest self-analysis and KGB and CIA critique, and candid admiration for what is just and right.

Another interesting fact is that even nowadays, post-Soviet Union disintegration, the spying business is very much alive and kickin'.  Proof of this is the 'recent' catch of American spies Hanssen and Ames
