I really like reading books that are in diary form, and author Sarra Manning doesn't disappoint with the diary of Edie (short for Edith) Wheeler, a sixteen-year old college student living in Manchester, England.  I will admit that it was sometimes difficult for me to follow along with this book, mostly due to some terms I wasn't familiar with and situations that are different from those in the United States.  Once you realize, however, that A-levels in college appear to equal being a Freshman, and that sixteen isn't, in fact, too young to be attending college when college appears to be another word for high school, and that some social situations "across the pond" are very different than you're used to, you'll get into the rhythm of FRENCH KISS quite easily.

Edie has fallen in love at first sight with Dylan, a guy in her Photography class.  The problem is that she isn't the only one.  Her good friend, Shona, also seems to have a thing for him, and it's driving her crazy.  Add to that the fact that Mia, a crazy-popular girl that Edie has been talking with has a thing going with Paul, Dylan's best friend, and it gets a little complicated.  But that's not the end of it. Mia is using Edie to get Paul off her back so she can get with Dylan, Shona wants to be with Paul but thinks Edie likes him, and Dylan is kissing with Edie but having intimate conversations with Mia.  Yes, it's truly a complicated situation.

As the class gears up to take a trip to Paris, things with Dylan seem to be alternately heating up and cooling off.  They can't seem to keep their hands off of each other when they're alone, and yet around anyone else Dylan only treats her like a friend.  Even though she's patched things up with Shona, Mia is still in the picture, and Edie is getting tired of it all.

Before these teens leave the most romantic city in the world, some things will have to come to a head.  Ultimatums will be made, friendships will be either solidified or ruined, and Edie will learn once and for all if Dylan is the love of her life.  FRENCH KISS is a fun, easy read that will have you rooting for this great couple, and hoping that Mia, with her dirty tricks, will be shown for what she really is by the end of the book.
