"It all started with the imbecile, practically sacriligeous, determination of these stubborn Colonists to defy the sacred authority of our Royal and Sovereign Majesty King George III."
- Scheherazade, on her early career as a horse in His Majesty's armed forces

Lawson wrote at least four books in this vein: a famous figure in American history as seen by a close animal companion (ranging from a mouse acting as advisor to a ship's cat). This is the only one of the four in which the narrator would seem at first glance to be based on something that definitely existed, since Revere in his role as a courier obviously *did* have at least one horse.

Lawson, however, isn't attempting to be meticulously accurate; he's concerned with writing an entertaining story that will bring the human historical figure to life, aimed mostly at young readers. So what we have here is historical fiction in which the broad historical details are reasonably correct, including the characters of the leading figures of the Sons of Liberty, but most of the Loyalists are caricatures - the most notable exception being the storyteller, commonly known as "Sherry".

Sherry tells the story as a retrospective in her near-retirement years after her involvement in Revere's pre-War courier work have ended, starting with her early career as the personal mount of an officer in His Majesty's 14th Regiment of Foot. She's careful to retell events as she saw them at the time, underscoring the laughable arrogance of her former associates - at least, of the officers and so-called gentlemen. The "most thrilling moment of [her] entire military career" was the Regiment's last Royal review before being dispatched to Boston - through which her rider and his immediate superior slept on horseback. Lawson's portrait of Sherry's former owner Lt. Barnstable could serve as a poster about the evils of inbreeding among the gentry - and that's just Lawson's illustration. At the time, though, Sherry was deeply devoted to him just because he was her master.

The first two years of the Regiment's posting to Boston are skimmed over very quickly, mostly serving to illustrate how unsanitary long-distance ocean transport could be, the drawbacks of conscripting convicts for jobs they're neither trained nor motivated to perform well, and the high-handed behaviour of the regulars toward the people of Boston (and the cold shoulders they got in return). Unfortunately for Sherry, Barnstable opts to kill time by gambling, and has to sell her to a local factory owner to settle some of his debts.

Thus begins Sherry's long path of disillusionment with her old loyalties, when her devotion to her former master is repaid with life as an ill-treated carthorse, and her former best friend rejects her with "I never speak to civilians". Life is very bleak, until the day she wrecks her cart trying to avoid being seen by her former associates - and comes to the attention of Sam Adams, who arranges for her to be 'appropriated' and turned over to Paul Revere for his courier work. And as Sherry becomes acquainted with the revolutionaries' point of view - and even that of the rank-and-file regulars, mostly homesick conscripts - she herself begins to change.

Revere's personal tragedies in the year in which Sherry comes to live with his family are omitted, but Lawson goes to some trouble to humanize him, emphasizing his family life - particularly along the lines of implying that he couldn't afford a horse of his own, and had never ridden a horse before Sherry was given to him.

A fun story, and while it can't be taken as historical gospel, it might inspire the reader to learn more about the people involved. For that, I recommend PAUL REVERE'S RIDE by David Hackett Fischer
