The author of this book proposes that much, if not all of the oil and gas we are reaping from the Earth today, is not all derived from ancient fossils now decomposed, but an amalgam of hydrocarbons left over from the initial accumulation of solar nebular and interstellar matter that accumulated to form Earth.  As much as this is intended (I presume) by the author to be a popularized book on science, there are many chapters that I suspect would be considered by most lay people and maybe some non-Earth scientists to be chewy or very technical and therefore tedious to read.  But the author, just as I would recommend, suggests to his readers to skip the middle chapters for the meatier summaries that occur in the latter half of the book.  Being a geologist myself, I read the whole book - of course.

Earth scientists have long known that the material that formed Earth since its formation has slowly (and to some, rapidly) separated out into various mixtures of metals, minerals and liquids (into various layers like the Mantle), with lighter materials rising and denser materials settling.  Since hydrocarbons are some of the lightest materials in Earth, they would naturally rise to or near to the surface of the earth.

Gold, who is a scientist himself, and unfortunately now deceased, having passed away recently, has developed many theories outside his main area of technical expertise that have been proven correct (and some not so correct to be fair).  That said, his theory here on oil and gas development, is a very serious and deserving contribution to geology that should be read by all geologists and those concerned about the origins of and the amount of oil and gas remaining in Earth.  Given the concerns about the process of these important commodities and the threats of their supply coming to an end, a serious debate on this theory should be considered.

As a geologist, I find his theory interesting and while I am not sure that there is a never ending supply of oil and gas, even if it's origins lay deep inside the earth and are not derived from dead animals and plants, this is a theory that is a joy to read about, as much as it is a possible important contribution to science.  His story is one that resounds in the geologic world as much as in the scientific world - that being one of the application of the scientific method and the presentation of a new theory that goes in the face of a current long-held and cherished theory.  Having lived through the debates of Plate Tectonics from its initial teachings in schools to it being accepted without almost any questions now, I am always in favor of letting the unusual theory, if well supported by facts and the use of the scientific method, to be heard and seriously debated without negative and unruly discourse.  Having seen first hand, well-educated PhDs scream and swear at each other in public forums over scientific theories, suggests to me something of not questioning the facts and data, but of holding to theories to closely, even when the facts suggest something else. 

In the end, this is a good book about how science proceeds and how scientists develop and present their theories, no matter how off-beat they may seem to the current population of scientists.  I whole-heartedly recommend this book if you want to know more about the oil and gas world.
