After waiting over 10 years since the publication of the classic &quot;Florida's Fossils&quot; by Robin Brown, amateur paleontologists in Florida now have another excellent reference book.  Geared for the beginner  to intermediate amateur, &quot;Fossiling in Florida&quot;  is destined to  also be a classic.  The book contains 21 chapters, a 34 page identification  section, a list of Florida fossiling clubs, a bibliography, and best of  all, is dedicated to amateurs.  Throughout the book there are 250 black and  white pictures, mostly of fossil specimens.  These pictures vividly display  a well-rounded cadre of vertebrate fossils from a variety of localities.   The pictures are clear enough for anyone wishing assistance in  identification of their specimens.  Also peppered through the book are over  20 illustrations by the author's wife, Marisa Renz.  The majority of the  drawings are light-hearted looks at Mark's adventures and ideas as an  amateur collector.  However, there are also several excellent line drawings  of fossil specimens and serious recreations of prehistoric life.  The  combination of photos and illustrations provide the reader with great  visual supplements to a comprehensive text.  The author uses clear and  concise language, explaining technical terminology in an accessible manner  to the non-professional.  Renz not only places various extinct species in  their prehistoric context, he also uses modern analogues to speculate on  their behavior.  Sharks, mammoths, sloths, horses, armadillos and  glyptodonts, saber cats, dugongs and manatees, alligators, bison and more  are covered in detail.  Stories on how Renz found his specimens are  juxtaposed with vignettes on how the author speculates those animals lived  and came to be fossils.  This makes for fun and informative reading for  beginner to veteran alike.  The creative writing and story-like format  should catapult &quot;Fossiling in Florida&quot; to an audience that  transcends Florida state lines.  A must have book for anyone interested in  fossils
