Tiffany Aching's a sheep girl.  Raised in the Chalk Downs lowlands, her family, as with all families there, raise sheep.  Standing on a small hill allows you to see a long way and she's used to wide vistas and openness.  Tiffany's not in those lowlands any more.  She's in the mountains learning to be a witch.  The mountains are dark, forested and mysterious.  Girls like Tiffany, whose Gran was likely a witch, go there to learn the craft.  Even in this strange land, Tiffany has others her age to associate with - even when those associations are tempered by competition.  For each, there is the possibility of becoming the Leading Witch someday - even though the Leading Witch, Granny Weatherwax, insists there's no such thing as the Leading Witch.  There is another level that might be gained, however.  Ascending into the realm of the gods.

Tiffany, with a single misstep, has taken a pace into that realm.  Attracting the attention of the Wintersmith, the "elemental" who brings blizzards and icebergs, she discovers she's being courted.  At "almost thirteen" that seems a bit anomalous, but her Mum was married at fourteen.  The Wintersmith is serious about being a suitor.  He wants a Queen to share his rule and will go to extreme measures to gain her.  He will even assemble the components humans are comprised of and become a "man".  It's no small feat, and it's typical of Pratchett that he would bring this topic into a book for young people, doing so with his usual finesse.  It's also typical that while the other apprentice witches deal with lofty and esoteric aspects of witchcraft, Tiffany's role reflects her background.  She knows how lambs are made and she knows the risks of birth.  Pratchett, while extolling Tiffany's practical sense, thankfully avoids discussion of what Wintersmith-Aching offspring would be like.

A young girl learning a new career needs a mentor.  Tiffany has one in the person of Miss Treason, a respected witch, if one with some bizarre habits.  Miss Treason uses mice and ravens for eyes and ears, since she's blind and deaf.  Those eyes reveal another factor in Tiffany's life, the Nac Mac Feegle, her protectors.  Led by Rob Anybody, this mob of little blue men are, to put it mildly, ubiquitous.  They are anywhere Tiffany is, and she's shocked to discover they watch over her when she's bathing.  But they are mandated to watch over the "wee big hag" and the Wintersmith, as her suitor, brings major challenges. Yet, Tiffany's future rests in her own hands, as Granny Weatherwax reminds us.  Wouldn't a view of the whole Disc be even grander than the vistas of the Chalk Downs?  Is Tiffany "mature" enough to make the choice?

Another challenge confronts the Wintersmith, however.  What does it mean to become a "man".  He's scooped up limestone, phosphorus, a bit of gold and "iron enough to make a man" in a nail.  Assembling these elements and giving it form should be enough, right?  Clothes may not make the man, but chemical elements are indispensable.  But are they enough?  Will Tiffany, who's not even a "teen-ager" yet, be impressed with his effort and take up residence in the ice castle he offers?  How Tiffany responds to his offer and why she does is Pratchett at his most magnificent.  Throughout the story, he has offered us glimpses of humanity in essentially poetic form.  Not as a saga, but in terms we all know well.  When the Nac Mac Feegle are assigned the job of finding a Hero, the results keep you reeling with mirth.  Yet, the underlying question is serious - can an inept human "hero" best an artificial "man"?  What forces would be needed for such a victory?

It's always interesting to pick up a Pratchett with the publisher's label "Ages: 12 and up".  "And up" is the operative phrase.  His early books were frequently tagged that way and you have to wonder how many editors are hidden away babbling to themselves from trying to categorise Pratchett.  The publisher may recommend what they wish for "Ages", but the truth is Pratchett is too wise, too clever and too inventive to fit any niche.  Like the Wintersmith, he will excel whatever bounds you apply when it suits him.  Any you will be the beneficiary of that outbreak.  Read this to see how.  [stephen a. haines - Ottawa, Canada]
