This is a great book by Martha Raddatz.
The first real reporter to tell Battle like it is. I
couldn't put it down. I usually can't read in a bus
during my 4 hr rides to Buffalo's VA. This one grabbed
me. She wrote fluidly and knew the correct slang and
terminology. The book Talks about "Black Sunday", 4
April 2004. Incase you guys don't know this was the
day in Iraq that C company 2/5 was ambushed and left 4
dead and 47 wounded. It was the battle that allowed
Sheehan to come to the front of U.S. politics. The
book is not about her, although it touches on her.
Contrary to her statements Casey, her son, was on his
second enlistment and he was one of the first to
volunteer to go on the rescue mission that in the end
he died, The whole first Cav lost 8 men and nearly 70
wounded. It was C company's worse day since our
contact on 3 Jan 1972 (remember we had 1 dead and 26
wounded in an ambush).
The part that bothered me was the lack of air support
and the use of Humvies that were not designed for
urban combat. Worse, as a combat medic the battalion
aid station was not up to snuff. 
Armour saved lives, and they had it - in spite of what
you may have heard. What did we have - a tree, a rock?
The problem was supply and that was governed by the
definition of the mission. The 1st Cav came as part of
a peace keeping mission not combat.
We, in the West, do not understand the inner workings
of the Islamic world - especially the infighting
between groups - we never have. Professors and
reporters paint the Arab world as some window to the
Biblical Life of 2000 and more years ago. Bull!!!
double bull!! They are of another religion but have
not got rid of the ethnic violence within the practice
of Islam. Christianity has just begun that journey and
we (my people) have had to reassess our use of force
to preserve our people.
Read the Book - if it id the only one you touch this
year.
Laura Ingraham, thanks for pointing it out to me

Rabbi Kuzriel Meir
"Doc Junkman"
The Last Head Medic of C 2/5 Vietna
