Tim Powers is a master of the 'Secret History' fantasy, a form where famous people have motivations, and famous events occur for reasons, having to do with magic and the occult instead of the normal, every-day reasons that we know of and believe.  He researches these people and events meticulously, so that his secret history meshes seamlessly with actual events.  Therefore, when Powers succeeds in snatching you into his "What-If" premise, our real history is never violated, and it is simply loads of great fun.   His last five books have been set in the 20th Century.  I found the first three to be sterile reads.  A tsunami of magical events and effects, to be sure, but very cold stuff.  With 'Declare' and even more so with this book 'Three Days To Never',  Mr. Powers has weaved mysticism in with his magic, giving a sense of the religious to it all that is flatly missinig from all his prior books.  In 'Three Days To Never', I think Mr. Powers also gives us main characters - teenager Daphne and her father, Frank - that we can finally CARE about deeply, and that is the topper.

I'm recommending both books highly, 'Declare' and 'Three Days To Never'.  The magic in both books is not a tired old hashing of all his prior magical constructs, and that is greatly refreshing.  There's new magic here in this time travel novel.  What happens when you travel through time and arrive at your destination via a quantum mechanics-probability wave mechanism?  It's VERY startling, even horrifying.  Mr. Powers continues to develop concepts around 'ghosts' that can be disturbing and perhaps even terrifying.

The motivations of many characters develop throughout the book.  I was quite often surprised!  Surprised in ways that made sense for each character.

The secret history conceit of 'Three Days To Never' is primarily concerned with Albert Einstein.  We all know about his brilliant discoveries concerning space and time, and quantum mechanics.  In our normal history, Mr. Einstein burned out in the early 1920's and did not produce much of note thereafter.  The conceit here is: What if he didn't burn out?  What if he then made bold, stunning, later discoveries, but they were so dangerous and frightening that he hid them?  And only now, in our modern day, has the mystery of these discoveries come to light.  The protagonists, Daphne and Frank, have very compelling reasons for needing to solve the mystery; and there are other factions with very intense interest in wanting to solve the mystery themselves, and gain what fruit may be gained from the solution.  It's a great thriller, a great ride
