After seeing how  many reviews "Angela's Ashes" have, I was hesitating if I should add my own. At the end, I decided to do so, without reading the other reviews. Maybe I will repeat things already said, but I wanted to express my opinion because this book deserves all the good words it gets. 

Memoir is an increasingly popular type of prose - essentially, everyone feels they can write a memoir. And this is true, of course. The difficult thing, which not just anyone can achieve, is writing a good memoir, which would stand out of the crowd. Frank McCourt succeeded in this respect. 

"Angela's Ashes" describe the the author's memories from his earliest years until he is nineteen. His family is central to the book, which starts when his parents, Angela and Malachy, meet, they live in Brooklyn, where Frank, his brother Malachy, the twins and the sister are born. Then it follows the family through the deaths of several children, the return to Ireland, the fight with objective difficulties as well as the personal faults, Frank's illnesses, observations, the life of the street children and poor people in Limerick, Frank's school years during the World War II, until his travel back to America. The family is, in a way, a typical Irish family with a curse of alcoholism hanging over it, with the history of Ireland present at every moment, with the respect for Irish tradition and Catholic church, with poverty and daily struggle. But despite the accurate descriptions of the shortcomings of his parents, and a great dose of bitterness and criticism, McCourt manages to show his affection towards them and leave the reader without doubt as to his love for both of them. The insights into the society, system and life of the community are very accurate and sharp as well.

The book, written from a position of the child growing up, which is reflected in the language and imagery, evokes powerful emotions. So strong, that it brigs tears to the eyes and leaves the reader in wonder. There is, however, a fair share of humor especially later in the book, so everything is well balanced yet natural.

The Pullitzer prize was, in this case, deserved. I heartily recommend "Angela's Ashes" and will definitely read (and review) "'Tis". 
