Technically, there were four major battles four in the four years of WWI in the area around Ypres...but in fact, except for short periods during the winter, the battle was almost continual from 1914 to 1918.  Generals were constantly asking soldiers to fight for 'worthless' pieces of ground and to often fight in conditions that were remarkably like a cesspool.  One of the soldiers quoted talks about the land having been 'destroyed' to such an extent that it had the consistency of quicksand and that to fall into a shellhole full of water (and whatever else) would be certain death from drowning.  

Most appalling for many of the soldiers, was the visual landscape that was churned mud and body parts.  Because of the constant shelling, bodies were never underground for long, and soldiers in the trenches would be subject to injuries from shrapnel, metal and flying body parts.  Bones of soldiers killed earlier in the war became morbid missiles and soldiers described these as the 'revenge of the dead'. 

The best estimates were that 700,000 were killed during the four years of fighting, and if you use the five or six to one ratio of injured to dead, the total casualties come to between 4 to 4.5 million.  All this dead and destruction occurred in an area forty miles wide and five miles deep.  Groom has included some picture from the battlefield that give a visual idea of the destruction and you have to ask yourself how anyone could be asked to fight under these conditions.

The most remarkable statistic of the battle area, was that the 'original' professional BEF (British Expeditionary Force) of 250,000, who were known as the "Old Contemptables" were wiped out by the second year of the war. The officers from England's Public (that is Private Schools for the Aristocracy) Schools that were recruited, from the British Isles "best and brightest" were also annihilated by the third year.  By the fourth year of the war, conscription had emptied the cities and countryside of england and german POWs were being used to cultivate the fields; while woman and children worked round the clock making artillery shells.

The Ypres (pronounce E-pray) Salient was where the German's first tried out Chlorine, Phosgene and Mustard Gas; the use of grenades, as well as the use of flame-throwers.  The first battle tanks were used in the area and the Battle of Cambrai is considered the first 'tank' battlefield with the use by the British of over 500 tanks at one time.  Not only was a generation of men lost by the British at Ypres, but Canadian, Australian, New Zealand, South Africa and India all contributed troops that were cut down like wheat when they went 'over the top'.  

Reading down through the thoughts of the men who fought there, you wonder if the 'men in charge' really had any concern as to what the 'man in the trench' was experiencing; or even more callously, whether they cared.  The discussions by the generals of 'bleeding the other side "white"' by attrition is the most startling epitaph of the battles.

