Tom Robbins' "Skinny Legs and All" is a novel that pulls in two directions.  Any novel that opens with the image of two "newlyweds driving cross-country in a large roast turkey," and follows a gang whose members include a can-o-beans, a shell, a spoon and a painted stick on a journey to Jerusalem, has no problem allowing fun, pleasure, and even silliness to be ends in and of themselves.  Yet the novel also energetically concerns itself with religious, political, and aesthetic ideas.  A novel is not an essay, in that it does not sink or swim solely on whether it its propositions are "right"; but when a novel does concern itself with ideas, does it not deserve to have those ideas taken seriously?  How much does agreeing with the ideas matter?    
 
Here is the pull.  Should value be placed on its "fun-ness" or its "rightness"?  I vote for fun.

The underlying position of "Skinny Legs and All" is one of sensuality, that our devotions should be pulled out of the sky, away from "organized religion" and returned to the goddess of the Mother, Astarte. Further, art should be pulled away from both abstraction and elitism, and returned to personal inspiration.  Regarding religion, our villains are played by a exaggerated mockery of a crazed southern fundamentalist Christian, Buddy Winkler, who just like his ancient patriarchal murderers, violently oppose to a cosmetic using, sexual martyr, Jezebel.  For these murders, this Jezebel is all too literal, but for Winkler she is represented in his niece Ellen Cherry, who he finds painted up and lets her know just how this offends his sense of a woman's proper behavior.

All of this religious rage flows towards, where else, Jerusalem!  And again, Jerusalem is both figurative (a restaurant co-owned by a pair of Jerusalem loving friends, one who is a Jew and an Arab) and literal (both ancient and Modern).  Robbins take on art is a touch more subtle.  Our roasted turkey becomes the rage of the New York art world and we see how acceptance, or lack thereof, by the "cultured" world infects, and almost ends, one individual's artistic activity.  

God, sex, art, Arabs, Jews, Christians, terrorism, Jerulsalem, New York, Bean cans who are intellectuals, spoons, modern and ancient times; O, what food for thought! Or maybe just appetizers. Refreshingly, there is no pretention towards bitter, nicotine-stained, philosophical brooding found in many modern novels.  Unfortunately, after all seven veils have fallen, what has been revealed is a totally recognizable philosophical outlook that you can get at your local organic foods store. Against repression of our feminine, sensual instinct.  Against oppressive, corrupt politics.  Against "organized religion" (what would unorganized religion look like by the way?).  Against consumerism.  Against hate.  This is all well and good, and I even agree with a lot of it (esp. concerning art) but in no way is it a revelation. Even if such musings come from the "mouth" of a can of beans.  

Yet, underneath the more deliberately philosophical storylines is a relationship that is truly pleasant to watch unfold, even as it naturally goes through its difficult times.  Too often when a novel or a movie sets out to portray a romantic relationship without resorting to sentimentality, there tends to be some overreach, and what we are left with is something loveless and bitter.  Not the case with the relationship between Ellen and Boomer.  There quirky but sweet relationship is tested when the artist Ellen has to watch the spotlight that she was so sure was destined for fall on her naïve turkey-mobile making husband.  It's nice to see a couple you want to root for as they find their way back to each other.

The fact that Robbins' thoughts are "unveiled" along a most preposterous plot is inevitably fun, and that is most important.  And if you need to be reminded that corruption and pettiness are bad, and that sex isn't something to get too worked up about, it might be good to hear again.  There is no new breaking of ground here, but there are some good times to be had
