When people look at someone who is successful (even if the definition of &quot;success&quot; varies from person to person) they usually have a tendency to think that someone went from point A to Point B with nothing in between. It's the old story of the &quot;overnight success&quot; that may have taken someone a lifetime or may have been achieved with great heartache, pain, and stress. One way of being inspired is to read biographies constantly. I'm an entertainer (ventriloquist, believe it or not) and I love reading show biz biographies. And I've found that when I read them there is a LOT of drama that took place between Point A (starting out) and Point B (succeeding). In The Road to Success Is Paved with Failure Joey Green has boiled down these life stories into a small book that completes its mission so thoroughly you will not only want to read, keep and refer to this book again and again -- but you'll want to gift this book to some loved ones. The concept is simple enough: each page, in large type, refers to a less-than-successful, unflattering or downright failure item involving a now famous successful person. At the bottom of the page, in smaller type, he tells you who this person is and why they are now famous for succeeding. This is &quot;no frills&quot; inspiration. And it works. Here's one example: (Big type) &quot;Barbara Walters was told in 1957 by Don Hewitt, who became executive producer of 60 minutes, to &quot;stay out of television.&quot;&quot; Bottom of page (small type): &quot;Barbara Walters became a host on the television talk show Today, an anchorwoman on The ABC Evening News, and a host of 20/20. She has won six Emmy Awards for her work on television and was elected in 1990 to the Television Hall of Fame.&quot; There are many others. But this is the kind of book that you can quickly re-read, or just grab a few pages and read if you're feeling &quot;down&quot; or discouraged. It gives you the mental vitamins to resist the naysayers and ignore discouragement and focus on the possibilities. Great concept. Great execution. Great biographical examples. Great value...given what it can do to uplift your life
