&quot;Charles Ives was born with his ears wide open.  The very first sound he heard might have been his father's trumpet announcing his birth to the town of Danbury, Connecticut.&quot;  During his life, no matter where he was or what he was doing, Charlie heard the wonder of music in the everyday sounds around him.  It could be the rustle of his mother's dress, the tick of a clock, the hooves of horses clip-clopping down the street, or the ice cream man's bell.  Charlie heard music in a bat hitting a baseball, the rumble of thunder, the applause and cheers of a crowd, and a train's bell and whistle.  As he got older, Charlie wrote &quot;music about things he'd heard or seen, or feelings he had.  But sometimes it was just to hear how different notes would sound together.&quot;  Charlie grew up, graduated from college, got married, and started a successful insurance company.  But he never stopped writing his music.  &quot;It was a new kind of music.  It didn't have to be pretty, it had to be true to his feelings...  But most people didn't know how to listen to it.  Some thought it was a joke.  Others just heard noise and got angry.&quot;  Finally, when Charles Ives was very old, musicians began to play and perform his music, and people began to hear what Charlie heard.  &quot;Maybe, if you open your ears like Charlie, you can hear the beautiful, funny, sad, joyous, amazing music he heard...&quot;  Mordecai Gerstein has written a spectacular introductory biography that really captures the essence of Charles Ives and his music.  His simple, straightforward text is both engaging and informative.  But it's Mr Gerstein's creative and inventive artwork that really makes this book stand out and sparkle.  His busy and detailed illustrations are packed with sound effects, swirling around the pages, in all shapes, sizes, and colors.  The visual becomes the audible, and readers will begin to &quot;hear&quot; the magic of music in the world around them, just like Charlie.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, What Charlie Heard is a marvelous, evocative story about an extraordinary composer, the entire family can savor, share, and enjoy together.  And once you've finished reading, it's time to listen to some of Charles Ives' music, so that you can hear what Charlie heard
