I would not consider myself an expert in art and especially modern art. I appreciate art and have visited museums and even made it a point to see some exhibitions but beyond that I would consider myself a "sideline appreciator".  I picked up this book in the classic effort to broaden my horizons and learning something new, different. I am probably exactly the type of reader  the author and publisher would hope by this book.  

With that being said this book is not written for people like me.  The book is broken into a series of essays with a common theme,  art presents itself in ways people often overlook and art is created as byproduct of how people choose to live their lives and in a sense live to create art. If  it sounds confusing it's because it is.  Some of the people profiled truly created things for the sake of it never expecting anyone to appreciate it or even know about it...just driven from within.  Other artists profiled are quite well known, ( within the art world) and make their living at it.. not exactly the accidental masterpiece the title implies. 

Almost The entire focus of the book is what would be considered Modern Art .(.Evidently before the modern era the accidental masterpiece was nonexistent.) The book could have been much more informative if there was more images of the actual art that was being described. I often had to go the internet to take a look at what was actually being described. Furthermore, the author has annoying habit of stringing together names of artists when making a point as if anyone reading the book  would know those names and have reference point. (needless to say they were always Modern Artist). 

As a result of these internet searches I discovered that one of the chapters was essentially lifed from a magazine article that the author had written in 1999. The book is published in 2005. It struck me as odd that he would take a six year old article and then edit it and without telling the reader. The book is not being marketed as reprinting of previous work. I just felt the author cut and pasted from his old work and six years after the fact has it published as if the dialogue and events recently happened.
