Lewis takes us on a fascinating travelogue through Heaven and Hell in this book.  Lewis' Hell is like an endless dreary town where people get further and further away from each other and more and more twisted up in ancient resentments.  Lewis takes the gentle Christian's approach to Heaven--anyone who wants to enter Heaven may do so, but many choose not to, for one reason and another.  As an atheist, I can't take Lewis' evocation of Heaven and Hell as seriously as Lewis would like me to.  As a metaphor for the human condition and the way we allow ourselves to get wrapped up in the trivial and ignore the things that truly bring us happiness, it is excellent.  

At one point in the book, the narrator is discussing with his teacher that he thinks he ought to feel sad about all the people who decide they don't want to go to Heaven and instead return to Hell.  The teacher replies that this is "The demand of the loveless and the self-imprisoned that they be allowed to blackmail the universe: that till they consent to be happy (on their own terms) no one else shall taste joy: that theirs should be the final power; that Hell should be able to veto Heaven."  This certainly has some wisdom in it.  I sometimes feel that I ought to feel sad that people are starving around the world, and there are so many other problems.  Lewis gives a gentle reminder here that whatever I do or don't do about the world's problems, there is no point in my being personally unhappy about things I can't help.   

As fiction, the book is fine and interesting.  Before taking it too seriously, however, I would strongly recommend reading other points of view. Christianity has a nasty habit of ignoring the major problems of our time, including overpopulation and exhaustion of resources, because they aren't mentioned in the Bible.  As far as the major problems of our times, I would suggest Kunstler's "The Long Emergency." For a defense of the naturalistic worldview, I would suggest Carl Sagan's "The Demon-Haunted World" or Taner Edis' "The Ghost in the Universe." 

I read "The Great Divorce" because I feel as a scientist that it is important not to simply dismiss religion as silly, but to give Christians their chance to convince me. If you're a Christian, are you willing to do the same for the other side? 
