I bought this book based on its overwhelmingly positive reviews.  Having read the book, I can understand the effusive praise:  there are certainly many parts that are deserving.  In the best parts of the book, the writers definitely draw the reader into the "romance" of hiking/backpacking.  There can be no question that their writing draws from authentic and tested (many times) experience, and they convey their thoughts in a manner that is very engaging, even infectious.  In fact, I defy any reader to read this book and not be inspired to "get out there."  For this reason alone I can highly recommend this book.  

But there is another respect in which I found this book wanting.  To call it "complete" is beyond overstatement.    Really, this book is two books:  a timeless one that romantically talks about "walking" with practical considerations and some tips and techniques conveyed as appropriate within the context of the broader "story," and one that is a painstaking, excruciating inventory of gear that was probably already fairly outdated at the time it was published and quite outdated now.  Even more frustrating was how often something would be mentioned briefly, acknowledged as important, and then skipped (e.g., useful knots)!  This from an 800+ page "Complete" tome!  I can understand that a certain franchise has been built on the "Complete Walker" moniker, but at the very least it's misleading.

For future editions, my suggestions would be to 1) retain all the sections relating examples and "true story" types of experiences (there are many in the book and virtually all are excellent), 2) ruthlessly and dramatically condense the product/gear reviews (any such reviews will rapidly become dated but shelf life can be extended by focusing more on principles and only briefly noting specific exemplars extant), and 3) either increase the scope to include those subjects the writers themselves deem as important or drop the word "complete" in the title.  With these changes, I would rate the revised edition five stars without reservation.

As it is, the current edition is a combination "walking" (albeit incomplete) manual and inspiration guide that handily rates five stars and a gear review that at best rates 3 stars.  Hence, my four star rating.
