This is an intresting look at the troubled history of Chicago in the 1920s. Lesy steers clear of "five star" murders like Leopold & Lobe and gives us stories of ordinary people who committed murder. He has a knack for giving timelines on the cases that intersected each other, enabling his reader to feel, as the Chicago public felt, the terrible innundation of killings in the city in the 20s, as well as the undeniable fascination about seeing who would get away with murder. He provides insight into the city's way of working (which hasn't changed that much), as well as some truly interesting facts, such as how the musical Chicago evolved from the cases of two women who murdered their lovers and walked.

Lesy's writing does have flaws. Sometimes he seems to contradict himself. In one case out of Wisconsin he writes that the murder victim burned all the letters of her killer; he then writes that the coroner conducting her autopsy found a letter from the killer stuck in her clothes. Upon review I realized that Lesy should have said that the girl burned all the letters except the one she was "wearing" when he killed her. Lesy's writing sometimes suffers from a lack of clarity that requires the reader to reread passages to get the intended meaning.

Far more serious, though, is the fact that Lesy gets some criminal history wrong. In a chapter that touches on a murder committed by Frank and Peter Gusenberg, he states that the brothers were responsible for the death of Machine Gun Jack McGurn "in a phone booth". Which would be pretty difficult to do since (A) McGurn died on Valentine's Day 1936 in a bowling alley, and (B)McGurn was the chief hitman on the St. Valentine's Day Massacre in which Frank and Pete Gusenberg died. This lapse is due to plain carelessness and should never have made it into the published manuscript. There are other errors but this is the most glaring.

That being said, Lesy writes well and uses irony and a wry sense of humor that works in a book about Chicago murders, especially when it discusses the city's gangsters and politcians. Flaws and all, I recommend Murder City for any student of Chicago history
