	This medieval poem from approximately 1350 represents one of the earliest pieces of literature extent in prototype English. At first glance the manuscript, housed in a special collection at the British Museum, appears to be in a foreign language; it is characterized by archaic spelling and specialized vocabulary known mainly to medieval scholars. But conscientious study proves rewarding; scholars may view the birth of English, or at least a stillborn twin, of its modern descendent.  A unique example of a translation from oldest into
into modern English, this Penguin Classics edition includes notes on the bottom of the pages, explaining words or references to scholars and legendary figures.

	Constructed in four basic Parts the plot is elegantly simple.  During a Christmas feast at Camelot Arthur and his knights are amazed at the rude intrusion of a brawny giant of man on horseback--with both rider and steed appareled in green. The intruder taunts the bravery of the members of the famous Round Table--challenging any one among them to swap blows in the Beheading Game.  Although modest in his self assessment, young Sir Gawain feels compelled to answer this insolent challenge--speedily salvaging the honor of Arthur's court.  (A literary aside: this chaste and loyal warrior is also Arthur's nephew; the uncle-nephew bond is the most sacred human relationship in medieval lais.  Gawain's failure to defend Arthur's reputation--a year hence--would prove even more shameful than if ignored by the other knights.)

	After the Challenge and Acceptance of Part One, we enter Part Two: Preparation and Departure.  We read of the perils and hardships of Gawain's odyssey as he seeks the Green Chapel--the site of the assignation as designated by the insolent Green Knight--throughout England without any
true sense of direction.  Part Three may be subtitled Hunt and Temptation:
a 3-day sojourn at the castle of a most hospitable lord, who promises to provide his guest with a guide to the very Green Chapel which he seeks at year's end.  The poet alternates scenes of the hunt in the forest with softer struggles in Gawain's bedchamber, as he is assaulted most delicately but insistently by the Lady of the manor, who seems enamored of her husband's guest and oblivious to her reputation.  To further complicate secret affairs, the Lord jocularly insists that Gawain and he swap the spoils of each day's exertions.  Gawain is hard pressed not to betray either the laws of chivalry toward the Lady or the lavish hospitality of the Lord.  He insists on departing after three days of trial by seduction--determined to meet his fate at the hands of his mysterious adversary.

Part Four may be considered Trial by Axe and Conscience.  Sir Gawain, barely escaping Venus' onslaughts but secretly wearing the Lady's green girdle beneath his armor, reaches the scene of his probable doom--a curious natural structure called the Green Chapel.  This is a wonderful read, rich in Anglo-Saxon alliteration with vivid details of medieval hunting, feasting and personal combat.  Thought-provoking themes abound such as the role of Chivalry, the dictates of Hospitality, and the influence of the French creation: Courtly Love.  As the blood
representative of King Arthur, Sir Gawain is constantly being tested.  Individual readers must determine for themselves how well he succeeds in his maintaining his ideals.
