Generally, I am very critical of what is called historical fiction.  I have often found that facts are being misrepresented in order to make the story more exciting to the reader.  And thus, I rather read through pages of pages of somewhat boring data and facts than to allow myself to get the wrong viewpoint of something or someone.  So, when I decided to go on a Civil War road trip a couple month ago, I bought a guidebook to all the memorial sites open to the public and I also remembered that years ago, I bought "Gods and Generals", but never actually read it.  

I read both books at the same time and found them to be very complimentary.  The facts that were depicted in the guidebook left me with the curiosity to learn more about specific characters and places.  "Gods and Generals" satisfied this curiosity.  Shaara has the wonderful ability to bring facts to life.  Written from several viewpoints, "Gods and Generals" depicts the events of various pre-Gettysburg battles.  Engaging and entertaining, the book proved to be a real page-turner.  I enjoyed the detailed descriptions of people's life, their religious beliefs, the weapons they used, the interactions they had with each other and the landscapes where the battles took place.  The book offer s a true insight into the emotional decisions people had to make when they country became divided and how difficult it was to take up arms against friends, acquaintances and former classmates from West Point.  I very much enjoyed that the story was told from various angles, may that be the viewpoint of General Lee or General Hancook.  Explanations and graphical depictions of various strategies were helpful in understanding the decisions made by the Generals and gave a wonderful insight in how battles were fought back then.

Overall, I would highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn more about the Civil War; someone who is not just interested in the facts of the war, but also in the difficulties and sorrows that the war brought upon the people who fought in it.  This is also very good book for younger readers or anyone who is going to visit the many battlefields that are accessible by the public.
