While I understand and am sympathetic to the passion the topic of outsourcing generates, there is no doubt in my mind it is here to stay.

I know from my personal experience, the cost savings are enormous.  I also know from my personal experience, outsourcing adds complexity to a project.  Paul Davies, an international businessman and consultant, has written a timely book addressing these issues.  He offers valuable insight into the advantages and benefits of outsourcing and off-shoring projects to India.  While acknowledging the substantial cost savings, he is not blind to the other side of the equation.  Citing Gartner Group analysts, he acknowledges about half of all outsourcing projects fail.

Davies devotes the first part of his book to background on India as a country and as a worldwide services provider.  He offers insight into the types of services U. S. and European businesses can take offshore and how to select the right business partner or supplier.  

Next, he offers valuable insights into the Indian culture.  These lessons will help the newcomer avoid many of the problems newcomers to Indian out-sourcing experience.  Davies explores the mind and culture of the Indian people.  He offers valuable insights into local concepts of time and working, dressing, eating, traveling and tipping.

Finally, he offers suggestions for successfully doing business in India.  Davies offers suggestions on how to write a business plan, due diligence, navigating risks and negotiating and haggling.  The early savings, he notes, are pale compared to the long-term benefits that will come from a long-term relationship.

This is a timely book on a controversial subject.  I have personally lost work to out-sourcing; I have also out-sourced projects.   While I prefer the old days, I am convinced they are done.  The cost savings generated will not be ignored.  They represent a major competitive advantage for business opting to take advantage of them.  I agree with Davies that ultimately they will trigger new investment and more prosperity here at home
