This study is a worthy addition to the literature on Social Darwinism, eugenics, and the origin of Nazi `social hygiene'.  Weikart's starting point is recognition that the interpretation of human nature as animal-the core premise of evolutionary anthropology-denies the sense of life's sacredness.  This is a truism.  But truisms of great moment can be obscured by the confusion of culture wars.  It may be argued, for example, as some animal liberationists do, that the demolition of belief that humankind is made in the image of God opens a new moral horizon in which care and sympathy are extended to all creatures.  But one may equally argue, as the Nineteenth Century Nihilists did, that the death of God means that everything is permitted, including celebration of chaos and violence.  When evolution theory asserts that change is driven by natural selection, or survival of the fittest, yet another horizon emerges: Social Darwinism.  Here universal compassion for all our animal kin is replaced by the opposite belief that our kind, like all creatures, are natural born killers and must persevere in our vocation if we are to survive and prosper (a revival of  homo lupus).  Weikart's book is thorough, dispassionate examination of the career of Social Darwinism in Germany 1860-1920.  The authors and literature examined are little known in the Anglophone culture, partly because of the language barrier, but also because (as I know from my own experience), much of the literature may be accessed only from specialized libraries.   For that reason I strongly commend this study to anyone interested in the historical or philosophical themes pursued here.  That said, a few critical remarks.

1. The author's attention to the literature critical of Social Darwinism, which must be brief, is a little too abbreviated.  For example, he notes only in passing the clash between arch-Darwinist Ernst Haeckel and the eminent cellular biologist/physical anthropologist Rudolf Virchow.  This deserves a page or two, since Virchow challenged the dogmatism of the Darwinian world view as an attempt to pass off an error-infested philosophy as science.  In this he was seconded by the equally eminent biologist Emil duBois-Raymond, author of the `ignoramibus' statement of the seven issues critical to a scientific biological philosophy where ignorance of the facts defeats the closure that dogmatics claimed.  

2.  Weikart's trace of the influence of Social Darwinist writers on Hitler's world view in conducted, as it should be, with careful attention to the principal alternative interpretations.  His sifting of the evidence, and evaluation of probabilities, leads to the conclusion intimated by his title that Hitler indeed assimilated the true sense of Germany's leading scientific exponents.  In particular he shows convincingly that Hitler, and Nazi propaganda, made a clean break with Christian morality.  This is a conclusion of fundamental importance in an age when the appropriation of the science imprimatur for social policy figures prominently in political contests.  It is not a novel outcome, but Weikart assembles the evidence with a new force and clarity.  My criticism?  The author relegates to footnotes evidence assembled by German scholars showing in detail how Darwinist opinion favoring abortion, euthanasia, and sterilization of the unfit infiltrated Germany's state-of-the-art public health service, and indeed even church-supported health service (Catholic Caritas), during the Twenties.  Since this outlook infiltrated our own health services and law courts from the early Seventies, it deserves prominent notice.  Another similarity is that the advocates of these progressive positions contrast them aggressively with the irrationality of the religious affirmation of life's sanctity.  

3.  The thread from Darwin to Hitler is evolution by natural selection, or survival of the fittest.  Darwin's apologists would cut the thread at the root, affirming that the only thing Darwin had in common with Social Darwinism was the name.  In particular, James Rachels, whom the author briefly acknowledges, has assembled arguments that Darwin's teaching on morality lead to vegetarianism and animal liberation through the moral instinct of sympathy (see Rachels' Created from Animals: The Moral Implications of Darwinism).  Weikart has in effect responded to Rachels by his alternative interpretation of Darwin's statements on morals and social instincts, integrated into the Social Darwinism literature, which Rachels doesn't acknowledge.  Why, one may ask, did the animal libbers of Darwin's time (`anti-vivasectionists' in those days) not see this connection?  Why indeed did Darwin defend vivisection?  This said, I am not satisfied with Weikart's evaluation of Darwin's position.  He attributes consistency to it when in reality it is a smorgasbord of conventional, inoffensive but inconsistent opinions with no indication of how they are supposed to make a system.  His sketch of how human moral instincts evolved from animal instincts is utterly incomplete (it could not be otherwise) and invokes evolutionary mechanisms, such as group selection, what Darwin elsewhere firmly rejects.  But the grandest inconsistency of all, unmentioned by Weikart and Rachels, is Darwin's appeal to Kantian morality.  He subscribed, in the Descent of Man, to the `supreme' moral maxim that `in the words of Kant, I will not in my own person violate the dignity of humanity.'  This is followed by a statement of a difference of kind between humans and animals--the capacity to compare `his past and future actions or motives, and of approving or disapproving them.  We have no reason to suppose that any of the lower animals have this capacity.'  Having imported Kant to infuse moral sentimentality with moral rectitude, Darwin declares:  `Thus the reproach of laying the foundation of the most noble part of our nature in the base principle of selfishness is removed'.  Wow!  If we ascribe to these pronouncements the weight that they prima facie claim, Darwin has renounced his evolution premise in favour of Kantian ethics!  No one, to my knowledge, has ever proposed such an interpretation.  Indeed, I know of no acknowledgement of his astonishing departure from the moral views otherwise so prominent in the Descent.  But this is my point: Darwin's mature writings yield no consistent position.  

Does this mean that the thread connecting Darwin to Hitler is after all broken?  Not quite.  It means that to make the connection, one must ignore Darwin's inconsistencies.  
