Marcia Willett's "A Week in Winter" is a very much modern day novel woven in a familial paradigm spun from threads of characters who appear in all dimensions absolutely real and vibrant and full of life. This is a book that comes as a refreshing read and employs a realistic portrayal of life in ficton. "A Week in Winter" as the title itself suggests is the life of a famly during Christmas and in a limited space and time windows the sudden and occasionally abrupt changes in the lives of a plethora of characters ranging from one-year-old Luke to old Maudie Todhunter. This is a moving story about human passions,dreams,hopes,expectations,acceptance and inability to go beyond the insulated boundary of perception,a riveting tale about man's tryst with inevitability and most importantly his own self.

Set against the backdrop of a week during Christmas time,Marcia Willett's amazing piece of literature revolves around Moorgate,a house of contention on the edge of Bodmin Moor in Cornwall,England. Indeed it is the proposed selling of Maudie Todhunter's late husband's home that spells troble which ripples diasaster and severe coldness across the family. Maudie is the second wife of Hector Todhunter and has never been able to make the transgression from a stepmother to a mother for Selina and Patricia,Hector's daughters from his first marriage to Hilda. Selina has been an eternal enemy to the hapless Maudie whose life has been rendered forlorn by her husband's death. Her only means to gain some respite from the gloomy atmosphere is exchange of emotions with Daphne,Hector and Hilda's old friend,and occasional but just as buoyed and joyous visits from Selina's daughter Posy. A disenchanted stepdaughter,a huge figure's death and financial insecurity are not enough to conspire and rip apart Maudie's life,and now that she has put Moorgate on sale,things are going radically out of hand.

Selina is fuming with rage at the inevitable sale of her father's home and like one of her realm---that of emotional unbalance and indecision of mind---is making all sorts of execuses to impede the sale. She coaxes,pleads and even threatens her husband Patrick Stone,a disillusioned and resigned-to-fate man,to but Moorgate but the odds are heavily stacked against her. "What is one man's meat is other man's poison". In this case though,the adage becomes "What is one man's poison is another man's meat". Rob Abot is the caretaker of Moorgate but given the splendor and charisma of the house he's steeply in love with it. He has not enough finance to buy it but an unconceived meeting with Melissa---who lives in London along with her writer brother Mike and his son Luke,and is a prospective buyer of the property---sripts a fantasy tale that is full of promise and anticipation Rob and Melissa both fall in love at first sight with each other and the five days spent together at Moorgate are the few moments of unassuming glory and fun before the threatening darkclouds swallow them up.

"A Week in Winter" is not just simply a novel about the selling of a house and the consequence of this act;its moral conviction and conjuring up of vivid truths of life are more taut ideas. The book has a tragic note right from the very inception and this sombre picture is carried throughout until the end punctuated by happy incidents. This shade of pessimism might be the flip side of the book but then again,life at its best never promoses any fairytale gratifications. The best feature of this book is the picturisation of the characters of the characters as possessing stories of their own;each figure has its own story to tell,a story patterned in overlapping patches of black and whiteand all stories are distinctly different and so all the more better for the construction of the plot.

Marcia Willett's magic lies in her well-drawn characters all aspiring to jump out of the pages,turn to life and form a part of the reader's environment. Each character is well-defined and massively crucial for the gradual unfolding of the story. "A Week in Winter" is an ebullient book that mirrors life in its exactitude and involves condensed descriptions and measured glimpses of intrinsic emotions and feelings. Patrick Stone's sudden realisation of his position and his metamorphosis,Daphne's acknowledgament of a dark secret,Selina and Maudie's relationship and a slight repitition of feelings of one generation in another are the most critical junctures of this lovely and exotic book. The authoress makes her book an absorbing read and we seem to live the experiences of the fictive characters ourselves. A fluid narration held by certain dynamic reflection moods,invokation of tragedy,romance and Nature and a brilliantly construed idea make this book a wondrous book,one that never attempts to gallop away from life's destined campaign
