Rodney Stark uses a sociological perspective to reconsider the development of Christianity from the early first century until it became the dominant faith and official religion of the Roman Empire in the fourth century. Stark, who is currently a university professor of social sciences at Baylor University, begins with the basic premise that the development of Christianity is not purely a social and political factor, but rather the product of human faith that stands up to all social phenomena: from interaction with pagan values and persecution, to the various social crises such as epidemic and political disorder. Stark writes, "Whatever one does or doesn't believe about the divine, obviously God didn't cause the world to be Christian." That the world has become Christian and will continue to be Christian depends on human effort that is based on the reflection and commitment of that Christian faith and community. 
Stark states that the early Christian community gained it converts through a social network built by intimate interpersonal attachment. Interpersonal relations within the early Christian community built a strong social network that allowed the steady growth of conversion during the first centuries. In this context, it becomes important for Stark to reconsider what was the social basis of the early Christian community. Many historians and sociologists in the twentieth century claim that Christianity and all religious movements are driven by the lower social strata in a community. For Stark, this assumption is no longer accurate because of the fact that the early Christians consisted of the privileged and the middle class in the community. Christianity was pardoned by the political authority because it included members among the family, friends and relatives of the early believers. Had the early Christians consisted of merely the poor and the oppressed, the Roman authority would consider it as "a political threat, rather than simply as an illicit religion." 
By explaining the fact that early Christians consisted of the privileged, Stark doesn't mean alienating the poorer class within the early community. Rather, he relativizes the assumption that most new cult and sect movements, as Christianity was, are driven by those who were poor. In addition, Stark is convinced that, whether power is held by rich or poor, all members of a religion have the same desire toward "the rewards that do not exist in this world." Moreover, it is the vision toward the other world that sustained the life of the early Christians, so that they became a solid social community.
