Path of Minor Planets is Greer's first novel, coming before Confessions of Max Tivoli, which has garnered more attention and praise.  Personally, I preferred Path to Tivoli, finding the writing equally strong but the story even better.
 Path opens with a group of astronomers and their students gathering in 1965 to watch the return of Comet Swift (named after the organizer of the gathering).  Here we're introduced to all the  major characters at their varying stages of life-established professors, ambitious/nervous grad students, young children, people at the end or beginning of marriages, etc.  During the viewing, they all witness the accidental death of a young island boy and the story moves on from there, using the return of the comet to structure the novel.
  The time structure works well as we jump ahead in these lives to see how they've changed.  While the comet's cycle forms the novel's backbone, Greer doesn't hold to it slavishly, allowing himself in each cycle's section to meander back and forth over the intervening years.  Along the way we are treated to the events, both minor and major, in the characters' lives and the way their lives, like the comet and earth, keep circling each other.  Again, due to the difference in ages, there is a lot of variety here, as some characters find first flush of love disappearing, some find their career ambitions thwarted, others move into the twilight of their lives while some into the energetic adolescence.  Narrative perspective shifts among the characters and Greer does an excellent job capturing this variety of voice and tone. The characters sound authentic across the spectrum of age and gender and personality, and this authenticity continues throughout the novel as they move into various life stages.  
  The story is layered and gently, quietly unfolds in the voices of its characters, never lapsing into cliche or predictability.  The characters are complex creatures that are likable at times but not at others, admirable one moment, insufferable another.  In other words, they're like real people.
  Stylistically, the book is generally strong, though Greer has a noticeable habit of swinging for the fence for too many lines.  Metaphors and similes are especially frequent and while some are just wonderful, the sheer quantity of them means others are a bit clumsy or contradictory.  And at times, after reading a string of them, you want to yell at him to just say the dress was white, the hat red and move the damn story along, but noticeable as this is, it doesn't detract much from the book's pleasures.
   There isn't a lot of action here; some will no doubt find it a bit slow, but give it time. The end effect of the style, structure, and characterization is a moving, affecting work that slowly, smoothly pulls you in and envelops you. In the end, you're sad to let go of these characters, always a good sign.  Very strongly recommended
