        Starting "The Corrections" I thought (wrongly) that it is Franzen's debut novel and I was wondering if the style can be similar to Dave Eggers' debut "A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius" (which I did not particularly like) - probably because I heard about both these books at the same time and read Eggers first, which was a mistake, because I was prejudiced towards Franzen before reading "The Corrections".
	The common denominatives of both novels are: the very general subject - contemporary family life, and relatively young author. Except that, they differ virtually in everything. Franzen writes about average family, even painfully normal, whose problems it is easy to identify with. Eggers describes an exceptional situation, his book is in fact a very exhibitionist memoir, satirical in concept.
	As I found our, "The Corrections" is Franzen's third novel (after "The Twenty-Seventh City" (1988) and "Strong Motion" (1992)) and rather a different one. The first two novels were characterized by the fast, very thoughtfully invented plot. "The Corrections" show various shades of feelings in one traditional American family, which despite the "good" lives of all its members, failed as a whole.
	The main characters in "The Corrections" are three grown up children - Gary, Denise and Chip, and their parents - Enid and Alfred. The plot is very simple, and definitely cannot be called dynamic or fast flowing. In fact, very little is going on in the present, there are mostly retrospectives from the lives of all family members.
	The whole plot can be reduced to Enid's frantic efforts to bring the scattered family together for Christmas, maybe for the last time, as Alfred is fast deteriorating in the grip of Parkinson's disease. The effort is (partially, as we see at the end) successful (or maybe success is a failure in this case?). But before Chrismas, all the children, considering the invitation, are pondering on the meaning of life. The parents too, although the author concentrates rather on the children, and here lies the main strength of this novel. Each family member had their share of success in life, but none of them are completely happy or satisfied - and cannot be. The readers may ask the characters' questions himself: are they happy with their life, even doing whatever they always wanted to do and all their plans were successful; can anything be changed? Or should it be? What does the family mean?
	The subject seems to be banal and exploited enough, but Franzen's prose is erudite and light, so that despite a relatively complex form, it is easy to read. The novel is full of humor, but at the same time serious in the key issues. The only weaker point is Chip's involvement in Lithuanian political scandals... This is also the only thing opposite to Franzen's motto "to write about a society, one must join it" (famous, controversial "Harper's" essay from 1996, where the writer analyzed the state and future of American novel). The Lithuanian events are completely unrealistic and unbelievable.
	Franzen admits in the interviews (for example in "Esquire") that during the writing of "The Corrections" he used and processed his own family experience. His father had Alzheimer's disease, what the writer also described in one of his articles for "The New Yorker" (where he is a regular contributor). Jonathan was also the youngest of three siblings, and each of them had a strong personality, so there was constant tension in the family.
	I liked this novel, perhaps for the personal touch and depth, despite the joking tone. It is very well balanced
