"What next?"  This common theme in Gail Godwin's The Good Husband seems to be fitting when you finish reading this articulate story of life, love, death, and everything that is encompassed within these complex experiences.  The story focuses upon the lives of two professor/novelists (or should it be novelist/professors) and their spouses.  The intricacy of every interaction, of how life and death can change one's mindset and of how love can be wrong, fade, or at least become skewed throughout a person's lifetime, with the interactions and cross-interactions of Magda Danvers, her husband Francis Lake, Hugo and Alice Henry make this novel go.  

Magda Danvers and Francis Lake make an interesting pair; she is a pure academic whose mind never stops wondering or questioning, while he is a caretaker who emphasizes the physical, often overlooking the intellectual.  During her dying months, Francis tends to all of Magda's needs, except the one that she really wants him to - her mind.  Magda has no qualms about taking her frustration out on him about this, even though he always keeps the composure of a man of God, which he was once studying to be.  At the beginning, you get the sense that the good husband is just a description of Francis; however, Magda makes a reference to her good husband as death.  But, of course, this allusion is over Francis' head, just like all of her others.

At the same point that Magda Danvers is on her last leg, Hugo and Alice Henry lose their child during birth.  The significance here lies in the fact that with this loss of child, so goes the loss of their relationship.  However the question must be asked if they would have had a healthy birth of their child, could that have saved their marriage?  Alice begins visiting with Francis regularly during Magda's illness, grows a strange attraction toward him.  He is very different from Henry, but is that the reason for her attraction, or is he simply a better fit for her personality?  Love can be a confusing thing, and this strange love square, it offers no solution to this quandary.  

When I began reading this book, I became bored and uninterested.  The overuse of unneeded repetition throughout the beginning chapters, the all-to-simple metaphor of their front yard's demise corresponding with Magda's, the sometimes jumpy narrative style, and the storyline that seems to be going nowhere left me pained during reading.  However, Gail Godwin comes back strong from these annoyances with a story that is more about the reader's self reflection than anything that she could possibly put down on paper.  This idea of one's death as a final examination left me pondering my own life for hours after I had laid the book down.  The way that she shows love in all its intricacy (and delicacy) through the point of view of omnipotent narrator allows the reader to see perspectives that might have never been able to come from one single person.  

After reading this book, I have some new ideas concerning love and its role in my life.  I am trying to sort through the parts of my life that are what matters and what's ... garbage.  I also have contemplated how I want my final exam to look ... even with the possibility that we might all get the same grade.
