Although I had a rough and slow go for the first 10 pages or so, I gained interest once I could understand who was who among the characters speaking and being mentioned. The further I read the more I enjoyed this book that opened a window onto the unnerving and harsh social protocol and class-conflict prevalent in Edwardian England. Brace yourself; the end delivers a powerful wallop. 

Readers relate to this story in different ways. To me, "connect" was the essence of Forester's message. When I got to the end I realized the profound significance of two words spoken by Margaret Schlegel: "only connect". People need to take a good look at themselves and account for their behavior. They need to grasp their surroundings and get a good grip on the world they live in. In other words they need to connect their lives with the realities of the world and with society at large.

The case in point is the Wilcox males. The father Henry and his son Charles live in a cloistered world full of nothing but old cronies like themselves who are each one wealthy, arrogant, ruthless, uncaring, and completely disconnected from the rest (the dregs) of society. Their world was limited to the confines of their own pampered surroundings. These men remained protected within an impregnable fortress built to uphold their lifestyle and prevent them from ever connecting with the greater of society. Snug and cozy, coddled in their fortresses, they are oblivious to the plight of others. They are aloof and convinced that their wealthy social status gives them a green light to do anything as they please, regardless of moral issues and negative consequences to others. As upper-class gentlemen with God-granted rights to abuse and bully anyone else lower than them, they considered their elevated social positions to be even above the reach of the law of the land. 

Opposite of the Wilcox's are the Schlegel sisters who are genuinely good-hearted and good-natured but also rich and pampered, and thus disconnected with the rigors of the poor who are trying to eke out a living.  Although the sisters realize that they should do something to help the poor, they aren't exactly sure what to do and aren't fully aware of the strict protocol and taboos placed on both the rich and the poor in accomplishing their objective. The two sisters, social reformers ahead of their time, happen to make the acquaintance of a poor, lower-class young gentlemen name Leonard at a concert. While their intentions were good, they take it upon themselves to make Leonard their pet charity case. But in trying to help him advance, it never occurred to them that others, even those on the receiving end, aren't as open to or appreciative of their concerted efforts. The ensuing story is a classic example of the types of social conflicts existing in Edwardian England between the upper and lower classes in terms of not only their disdain toward each other but also their reactions to charitable efforts by social reformers such as Margaret and Helen Schlegel.

As enlightening as the story is in terms of British customs and social norms, the storyline frustrates you because of the activities, behavior and attitudes displayed by the super wealthy who are downright condescending to all persons and things "below" them. As readers, we are helpless to do anything to support those wronged by arrogant, aloof, and money-hungry aristocrats symbolized by the Henry Wilcox's of the world. 

Ahead of its time, this novel broaches several social issues, from women's rights, charity to the poor, to the ills of the wealthy. Finally, this book not only contains an enormous bite to chew and swallow in terms of the social conflicts it brings to the table but also it ends up tasting so good in its imaginative and flowing prose that I think you will like this book by E. M. Forester.
