Part mystery, part character study, and part treatise on the ramifications of race, Country of Origin is probably one of the most unique books to come out this year. With a stark, concise, yet distinctively competent style, Lee has written an engaging and quite illuminating story set against the background of Japan in the early nineteen eighties when there is a lot going on in the world - the Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan, the Olympic boycott, and the Iranian hostage crisis. The story centers on the disappearance of the young American mixed-race girl Lisa Countryman, and the efforts to find her by the American Consular officials and the local police in Tokyo.  The narrative cleverly jumps backwards and forwards in time - from the night of her disappearance, told from Lisa's point of view, to the present to where Tom Hurley, the young consular official is looking for her. Throughout this all the characters, whether mixed race American or Japanese wrestle with the questions of race and identity, and the whole effect is like a type of dark, foreboding Lost In Translation with America clumsily, and at times, not very successfully interacting with Japanese culture.

Lisa is in fact both neither white nor straightforwardly American - she is of African- American and Korean heritage - and it is her quest for her real origins among the sleaze of Japan's sex trade that ultimately get her into danger. Lisa wants to recognize where she came from and who she was; "she wants to have a history." When she tries to claim racial solidarity with a group, people don't believe her and she ends up being labeled as a "radical-chic colour of the month." The truth about what happens to her turns out to be unfortunate, and also rather sad; it has more to do with her own angst, stupidity and irresponsibility than with the maneuverings of any malevolent exploiter.

Much of The world in Country of Origin centers on petty bureaucracies of the United States Embassy in Tokyo. The Americans who work in the embassy are assertively individualistic, and they constantly confront a Japanese conformist community that is hidebound by tradition. But beneath the surface of American confidence lurks extraordinary anxiety about identity. The characters are all insecure about themselves and each other, and no one appears they seem. Tom Hurley is half-white and half-Korean, but he routinely lies and says he's Hawaiian. Tom's fellow officers at the embassy, Benny, who is black, and Jorge, who is Chicano, complain endlessly about race. Julia, the woman who Tom is having an affair with is an American wife of a Japanese CIA operative, and she misleadingly tells Tom that she is privately schooled and from old money. The Japanese are conveyed as culturally xenophobic - Kenzo Ota labels whites as "gaijin" who emanate a ''butter stink'' from eating too much dairy. Ota, a compelling and fascinating character, is the middle-aged Japanese detective, who recently stigmatized by divorce, is convinced that something sinister has happened to Lisa. 

The novel conveys a country in the throws of a profound change, and a society that is unavoidably bound by loyalty. Loyalty is the basis of the Japanese economic system and "is behind the structure of global alliances between their government bodies and private corporations." The most interesting aspect of Country of Origin is the account of Lisa's months in Japan leading up to her disappearance - the author describes some fascinating locales making the reader feel as though they are right at the heart of Japanese nightlife.  There are a many surprises as the novel concludes, although some readers may the final twist in Lisa's story rather anti-climactic and emotionally somewhat lightweight and predictable.  Mike Leonard August 04. 
