While one cannot seriously dent the opinion of the public on who contributed the most to the founding of our republic: and thus the auras of Washington, Adams, Hamilton, and Jefferson reign supreme, one cannot seriously dismiss John Jay.  Jay served in all but one of the branches of our early federal government and secured the final treaty which ended the Revolutionary War.  Tne boundary issue with English owned Canada was also settled through his diplomacy.  Tne borders of Maine and Minnesota being points of contention.

Jay was a statesman and a great writer.  His contributions to the Federalist Papers, albeit they are limited, served as a guidance to future government.  He served at the state level as governor of New York and helped to create political parties, although he struggled with his aversion to factionalism.  As a member of the Constitutional Congress, Jay maintained vital relationships with friends in England whom he needed to make the American experiment work.

During his era, the right to navigate the Mississippi was an important issue in America and especially to the commerce driven economy created by Hamilton.  Like Jefferson, Jay envisioned a larger America.  He wanted us to expand and evolve.  Therefore he wasted no effort in taking the Mississippi away from Spain, France, and England.  Jay clearly viewed the United States in terms of an opportunity for expansion.

As a man, Jay was a committed Christian.  He founded many churches and lived out his life in Christian fellowship.  His wife was clearly the greatest of the founding mothers.  The letters between Jay and his wife were full of love and undying admiration, but also full of ideas.  Unlike Abigail Adams, she was not a prude, a story-teller or a whiner.  She worked very hard to see her vision of America come true.  Alas she died early at age 45.  There should be statues put up for her!

Jay was simply the best America can produce.  His mind was better than Washington's, his vision equal to Jefferson, and his love for his country unequalled.  Stahr captured all of this in an easily readable book.  I look forward to his next project and hope he may tackle some lesser lights in our nation's founding.  What a wonderful opportunity for all of us to learn about someone deserving of much applause, but who biographers seem to have passed by.  If you get a chance, please get to New York and do a tour of his home.

I truly loved this one and if you want to know who did the tough work on our founding here he is in all of his glory.  A great man and a great book
