I am an African who first read Elizabeth Elliot's book "Passion and Purity" when I was a newly divorced mother of four.  I was in my early thirties then and lived in Africa. Although I was raised as a Christian, I have never heard that it was possible to not date as I was influenced by western songs and western movies to think that dating was the norm.  What I found, much to my surprise, when I started dating as a single mother, was that my body was different - perhaps because I had given birth.  I could not control myself when I when I started being physical with a man.  I had to go all the way, even though I was a Christian.  My biological urge was greater than my sincere convictions about Christ.  Then I read Elizabeth Elliot's book, and the light came on!!!!

I now live in the Northwest Territories in Canada, and I met Elizabeth Elliot's nephew who used to be a pastor here.  He forwarded a letter from me to her, and she wrote a letter back to me.  I am now 56, and still not married, but I so value her advice in her letter to me, which was that I seek first the Kingdom of God.  That to me means that I do not have to look for Mr. Right.  God will bring him to me in His time.  I feel very peaceful therefore.  

I have bought Passion and Purity for a couple of churches which I have attended in Canada.  I have also given her book to some young women.  I am currently in the process of writing to the various school boards in the Northwest Territories, telling them about this book, as the rate of venereal diseases is very high here.  I want them to at least plant the seed in people's minds that one does not have to date.  I have also listened to a tape from my church which said that dating is a North American idea.  In Britain, so it said, people used to go out in groups.  I do know one church in Edmonton where they encouraged going out in groups among the youth.  

I am immensly grateful to Elizabeth for turning me into a pure woman.  For me, it is strictly no dating and no touching until marriage
