Like Lenin's life, this book goes through slow, quiet times as well as periods of frenetic activity.  Especially interesting are sections on Lenin's childhood and family, the October Revolution itself, and Lenin's final political struggle with Stalin as he battled his failing health.  The chapters dealing with his nearly 20 years in exile are a bit of a slog, but do necessary justice to this phase of his life and illustrate that Lenin spent most of his adult life in petty but ruthless fights with other Bolsheviks.
 
Robert Service does not paint a pretty picture, but no honest biographer could with the today's open archives.  Lenin was ruthless in pursuit of his socialist vision, destroying political rivals, horrifying many erstwhile allies with his ferocity, and never hesitant to use violence, and deceit.  A bookish intellectual, Lenin advocated terror but let others do his dirty work.  Lenin demonstrated remarkable tactical flexibility (several amazing flip flops are documented) even when his primary goals and assumptions never changed.  As a young man, Lenin refused to engage in famine relief work with his family noting that peasant suffering and starvation will push Russia through necessary stages of economic development towards the inevitable communist utopia.  With this, and other similar episodes, Service argues that Lenin was motivated more by hatred and revenge towards the tsarist regime than any sympathy towards the poor.

The book is quite successful as a biography in that it gives you a feel for Lenin's personality, family, likes and dislikes.  He has a cosmopolitan love for European culture and a general disdain for all things Russian.  Lenin is fastidious, cannot stand noise while working, and is obsessive about keeping his pencils sharp.  His outward politeness disguised an inner ruthlessness.  He is something of a spoiled "wonder child", adored and idolized by his mother, sisters, and wife.  The biography does justice to the complexity of Lenin's character, and Service occasionally allows himself a little affection for his subject without ever condoning or whitewashing the horrors he perpetrated.

Note this is primarily a biography of Lenin, not a history of the Russian Revolution.  Lenin's contributions and reactions to key events are given more attention than narration of the events themselves.  Depending on your interests, you may want to consult a general history of the Russian Revolution instead of, or in addition to, this book.  Sheila Fitzpatrick's "The Russian Revolution" is a concise and solid introduction.

This may be the best all-purpose Lenin biography out there.  The treatment of Lenin is balanced, and Service presents alternative viewpoints fairly even when he dismisses them in favor of his own opinions.  I preferred it to Volkogonov's biography, which is really directed at a Russian audience. 

