Well... Earl Doherty has some wonderful arguments. In a way, he is correct and in another, he is incorrect. The Jesus of the Gospels never existed as translated (more often mistranslated), instead, another Jesus did-same name, different biography, one which peeks out here and there in the gospels, but whose real and complete story is still missing and may never be found. 

I could reiterate all of the errors and contradictions, the Greek words which translations have been slanted (Almah, Betulah, Anepsios, Adelphos, etc., etc.), the error of Qyrenius as governor during Mary's pregnancy, and many, many, more. The key in the 5400 fragments and entire gospels now extant, are the consistent changes over the centuries, the stories dropped and added, the reality that the earliest Gospels being copies of copies, of copies, of copies and even they were from the second century. The unearthing of the Nag Hammadi with it's rich variety of gospels, buried in the second century or later displayed a somewhat different Jesus-a Jesus with a ready temper and a Jesus with an affection for Mary Magdalene, but not even these are the true solution to the Jesus mystery. Contemporary with Jesus were men like Honi the Circle Drawer, Hanninah ben Dosa, and Apollonius of Tyana, the former two Jews, the latter a Roman, all of whose works were amazingly similar, if not duplicates to those of Jesus, and there was also the 'unknown prophet', another man named Jesus who for several years disturbed the peace by shouting a prophecy of the razing of Jerusalem to come soon. This Jesus was arrested and scourged, let go and shortly before the destruction of Jerusalem  and was subsequently was killed by an errant catapult shot. 

Honi the Circle Drawer, Hanninah ben Dosa, and Apollonius of Tyana, all healed the blind, raised the dead, cured the lame, but stopped short of their own resurrection.

The reality of Jesus existence is not the question, he did exist, the question is, why were not the apostles and everyone he knew crucified with him? Crucifying the only the leader of any movement is unprecedented in Roman crime and punishment. They crucified 6,000 0f Spartacus' followers, and acted consitently in like manner, but why did they ignore Jesus' followers? 
They did because Jesus was not crucified for his religious beliefs, but because his call for The Year of the Lord in Jerusalem, which was a call for the Jubilee Year in which landlords and land commercializers like the Herodian Priests owned land in violation of their code and were most likely dealing with corrupt lower level Roman officials-the consequeces of such ownership is death for treason and misuse of office. The pay back for these violations was stoning for the priests and worse for the corrupt Romans. That is the only explanation for the quick arrest and murder of Jesus-they did not want him to expand on his "Jubilee Year" theme, it would have meant returning seized lands to the families of those from which the exploited lands were taken. There were ample disagreements among various priestly sects and the Pharisees were, in contradiction of the Gospels, actually in agreement with Jesus on immortality, the soul, angels and more, while the Sadducees agreed with none of that. Religious differences arguments were as common among the Rabbis in Jesus era as they are today.

The Christian myth of Jesus being sent by his Father to absorb sin and die for them is illogical. Could a near omnipotent Creator to need to send a redeemer is a puzzle. The God who supposedly created a functioning engine, an electro-mechanical universe of immense proportions riding on a quantum, and every creature within, all of which function within their environment, perfectly in tune with an evolutionary cycle, be perfect at the engineering of the universe and everything within it, but a failure in his design of man, strikes one as an incredibly false note.

We are what God meant us to be, nothing more, nothing less. The only evil man can do is misuse his dominion with avarice, betrayal, torture, murder, and Imperialism, the things at which politicians, industrialists and their followers excel. 

Jesus, the one who lived in the years from about 4 BC to about 25 AD-29 AD, seems, from the available material, including Jewish Talmud, Midrash, and related writings, to have been a prophet, perhaps a messiah, but the `Good News' he brought was a reminder of immortality, which some sects denied, not that he was to die for their sins, although in a way, blood ransom was a popular theological belief.

In summary, in my studies and research, the Jesus who lived and the Jesus of the gospels differ in one respect, the itinerant preacher healer was one of several of his genre, and the gospels present a semi-fictional figure whose present day persona is more a creation of Paul, Augustine, Athanasius, Tertullian, Origen, and codified by Constantine's influence and need for order and conformity. The Greeks and other Gentiles had no comprehension of "Messiah" they would buy nothing less than a god as their leader, and so the human with divine powers, one of several of his era, was reborn as a god/God
