
I've read the book and, like many of the other reviewers, was aghast to have my idealistic view of John and The Beatles altered so irrevocably.  I can't pretend to know what percentage of this book is actually true or what exactly Mr. Goldman's "agenda" was.  

One thing I do like about the book is the insight about John and Paul's relationship and their contributions to The Beatles music.  Like many of you, I've always been a devout student of their music and really tried to learn as much about who wrote what song and how the creative process of the band really worked.  I've always been a bit confused by the general perception that "Saint John" was somehow the greater artist of the two and Paul was the cute tunesmith who wrote silly love songs.  If you think that, I'd love to have a one on one debate with you.  Along with reading this book, the debate would make you reconsider your view.  

John was supposedly the "leader" of the band, yet, as the book shows and nobody disputes, at the most critical junctures of the band's artistic evolution, it was Paul who rose to the occasion and brought them to the next level, while John was off on his latest self indulgent, navel gazing search for himself.  Paul was the chief architect of Pepper and John's contributions were relatively minimal.  While Paul was writing and producing with George Martin the groundbreaking elements of Abbey Road, John was taking the usual path of an artist who's run out of ideas - going back to basic rock and roll (and stretching an average song fragment like "I Want You" in to an eight minute song by playing it three different ways).  If it weren't for Paul, the story of The Beatles would have ended much sooner and we'd have less great music to cherish and enjoy.

In short, John was the second best musician and songwriter in the greatest rock and roll band in musical history.  He contributed some of the greatest songs and lyrics the band produced.  That doesn't make him a great man.  If you want to idolize a great Englishman, read one of the many books written about Winston Churchill - a man of truly great character who did a tad bit more for world peace than sit in bed with his wife.

If you think Goldman was wrong about John as a person, you have a remedy.  Do your research and write an 800 page book about what a selfless person, loyal husband, great father and all around great guy he was.  Lotsa luck.

