Heidegger made one of the most original reformulations of the discipline called "ontology" by illustrating how it can be conceived as a study of the meaning of Being in general [= presence in the sense of the Latin word "praesens" (in 1928, Basic Problems)], by way of studying the meaning of Dasein's ("human") Being. Dasein's Being is Care [understanding, mood, interpretation] and its meaning is temporality in its authentic form as Being towards death ("future"), repeating one's thrownness into the world "for no reason" ("past"), and the moment of vision or considering presently possibile authentic choices concerning ways of being in the world ("present").

Heidegger's letters reveal that he had a philosophical crisis, his words, in 1930, in which he came to reject Being and Time and to abandon its approach. Before he made the "turn" to poetic thinking, Holderlin etc in the mid-1930s, his 1930 crisis was resolved by reconceiving authentic existence as a mode of existence of a cultural group (the ancient Greeks and 1930s Germany being his two main examples). This 1930 crisis occurred before, and independently of, his thoughts about National Socialism, which gave him a concrete instance of a cultural group as a candidate for authentic existence. After "the second revolution" desired by Roehm and Heidegger, etc., was rejected by A.H., in winter 1934, 6 months before Roehm was killed, Heidegger and other "second revolutionists" were marginalized by N.S. leaders; upon learning that A.H. rejected the second revolution, Heidegger stopped believing Nat. Soc. was a candidate for authentic existence. For Roehm, the second revolution involved the SA becoming the sole military force in Germany; for Heidegger, it involved himself becoming the sole philosophy professor in Germany (see Jaspar's comments)and the Nat Soc. party becoming an authentic Volk with him as its spiritual-philosophical leader. Derrida's book, explaining the significance of Heidgger removing the quotes around "spiritual" ("Geist") is the most insightful explanation I have read of Heidegger's post 1930 philosophy. Heidegger's students for his 1935 lecture on metaphysics naturally understood the hidden "inner greatness" sentence as being about the unrealized possibility of the "second revolution", which would give the Volk authentic existence. The metaphorical "worship" of ancient Greece [philosophers and playrights] and so-called "Aryan German history" [esp. Nietszche and Holderlin] was the official and widely adopted attitude of N.S. and this, not all the speculated reasons in Heidegger scholarship, was the reason Heidegger lectured and wrote about Nietszche, Holderlin and the ancient Greeks and German poets/philosophers in the 1930s and early 1940s. Despite there being no second revolution, Heidegger thought 1930s Germany was still "the best culture since ancient Greece" and so followed this party line about ancient Greece and Nietszche, Holderlin, etc. Political philosophy or historical commentray is fundamental to Heidegger's work from the 1930s onwards. Note the beginning of his talk of "the night of Being" after 1945. What brought on the night and what was the night? Germany lost WW II. The reawakening of something like N.S. in its potential "second revolution" form would be the end of the night. The writings after 1930 can be understood if one sees how it is a reflection of his interpretation of current social-political events and one "derives" Heidegger's ideas in part from his foundational idea that democracy is evil and dictatorship "self-evidently good". Since we believe the opposite, this makes it hard to understand the often "obvious meaning" of his writings. I would say the three most influential events on his later thinking was his 1930 crisis, the winter 1934 rejection of the second revolution by A.H., and Germany's losing WWII.

    I disagree with Heidegger scholars about the main influences on BT. I have not seen discussed or mentioned that the main influence on the first half of BT is Max Scheler's two essays: "Theory of Three Facts" (1911-1912) and "Ordo Amoris" (1914-1916). Jasper's large book in the early and mid 1920s  on what we now call "existential psychology" is the main influence on the second half of BT. Jaspar's 3-volume PHILOSOPHY (early 1930s)in turn was heavily influenced by BT (1927)
