Hi.  I grew up in Houston and lived in NY for about 3 years.  Let me just say it straight:  The Yankees is a cult for social club zombies.  There is no such thing as the Yankees.  There is only such thing as other teams' MVPs.  (Kinda like that song OPP.)

Living in NY and hearing people idolize the Yankees really grosses you out if you are on the outside looking in.  Watch the YES network and watch Yankees highlights from 300 years ago, reminding you of the history of your cult.  I'm glad the Yankees do horribly.  Yes.  Glad.  And you know why.  Writing about is is redudant, for now I will only poke fun at the modern Yankees.

I was raised in Houston, so painfully I was an Astros fan for a couple decades now.  I laughed hysterically when the Stros NO-HIT the Yankees with like 6 pitchers I believe.  I even kept the Newsday paper it was printed on the back cover of.  Priceless.  Then the Fish beat them in the WS.  Classic.  Then, lo and behold, the Red Sox resurrect themselves against the Yankees and reverse-sweep and reverse their curse on to them.  I don't care if humanity gets wiped out by aliens or nukes or whatever - we MUST preserve what happened in 2004 between the Yankees/Red Sox.  Hey, why don't we start by replaying it over the YES airwaves for the next 60 decades.

There is this guy that I lived with who was a hysterical Yankees cult zombie.  He claimed that "nobody can beat the Yankees, the Yankees beat the Yankees, they beat themselves only."  Now it is true that the Yankees beat themsleves (if by "Yankees" you mean Steinbrenner) but oh my do other teams whoop them silly.  The Angels, Fish, Red Sox... Devil Rays.  Do I care that other teams own the Yankees?  Nope.  I care that people are so brainwashed by Yankee propaganda that they actually do, and not only do, but can't accept reality about such things.  If you are a Yankees fan: Sit down. Take a deep breath.  Now let it out.  Relax.  The Yankees are a bad team and they are owned.  There.  That wasn't so hard now was it?

Here is why people hate the Yankees.  If you have a team with a low or medium pay roll, and you have a player who is special and pretty much carried your team for a season, kiss him goodbye, he's a Yankee next season.  How fun is it to have that on your conscience every time somebody is a great player?  I'll tell ya this, and I'm sure you will agree - it ruins the sport.  I am not a football fan, but I do love the playoffs in football.  Why?  Because of the variety of the champs.  They win with what they have.  Sure they trade, but they don't buy everyone's MVPs the next season.  They have their team captains that sail the ship and a solid coach.  Every sport is going to have its Clippers, Browns, and Devil Rays.  That is not the issue.  The issue is that if the Rays had a shining star, there is only a dust cloud where his body once played the season before.  Other sports will surround their special talents with other players who share the same determination to win.  The salaray cap helps this happen.  

Here, let me break it down for you yet again.  After the Yankees "beat themselves" to the Angels (for the second time within 5 years), there was an article in the newspaper with a "sports writer" discussing his "plan" for 2006.  It involved attaining Torii Hunter, Barry Zito, Rafael Furcal, Manny Ramirez, and John Olerud.  He even talked about getting Johnny Damon and some other guys.  Case in point?  Another Frankenstein team featuring stars from other teams as the solution to the problem.  Yes, bring in more people who don't know each other to magically fix the problem that has started before they came into the picture.  No. This is not a sound solution to anything.  How does this happen?  No salary cap, greedy players, and a sport with no soul.  May I suggest, mr. sports writer that you make better with what you HAVE and building a team rather than next year's side show you only love to hate?

Consider the fact that they get bought from other teams as heros and leave as zeros.  Why do they go from moutains on other teams to valleys in pinstripes?  Because the Yankees headquarters looks desperate and pathetic begging for others to come in and save them.  I mean it really is sad.  But if you can't try to learn from your mistakes and keep repeating them, you don't get my sympathy.  Only a couple laughs.

It isn't homeruns the Yankees need, its a personality, a heart, a team.  They don't need guys who think homeruns and strikeouts are owed to them, but guys who will break and bleed for them.  Its not even HOW you spend the money but WHY.  If you're spending alot on a big name just to fill seats, you have received your reward.  If you spend big just because you don't want your rivals to have a player, you roll the dice on the field and in the clubhouse.  You see the Yankees is a Rubick's cube of a team.  A Frankenstein.  An arm from Seattle, a leg from Pittsburgh, a toe from St. Louis, an ear from San Diego, and half a cheek from Cleveland.  They went looking for pieces but have no heart.   Aside from Tino and Jeter, there is no such thing as a Yankee anymore.

The only time I cared about the Yankees was when they had O'Neil, Brosius (sp), Sojo and all those guys.  They were fun to watch because they weren't all superstars, and you wanted to see the skills of guys who wanted to fight for their championship.  (Even though I still rooted against them back then, I never hated them.  I'm a NL fan, what do you want from me?)

Yankees Cult Graveyard - R.I.P.
Benitez
Weaver
Brown
Vazquez
Mondesi
Leiter
Pavano
Loaiza
Womack
(waiting for 2006 season)

Hmm...  Read the book, it is way better and funny.   5 stars
