The House on the Borderland by William Hope Hodgson
Review by Nickolas Cook

	There are classics of the genre and then there are CLASSICS of the genre.  "The House on the Borderland" is a CLASSIC.
Hodgson uses the plot device of a found tale, as two weekend campers find a crumbling manuscript in the ruins of an ancient house in the woods.  Creepy enough already, but when the campers begin to read the lost story of a recluse and his sister it gets even more foreboding.
Lovecraft cited this as one of the best horror novels ever written, and it's easy to see why the man who made his name writing 'cosmic horror' would find it such a compelling read.  Hodgson is the father of Lovecraft's fears. 
Hodgson has actually written two separate novels in "The House on the Borderland".  The first is by far the most frightening of the two pieces, as swine-like intelligent creatures siege the house and the protagonist must battle them for his life.  There is a dream sequence at the beginning that sets up that the house is really more than a simple domicile, is, in fact, a sort of extra-dimensional time and space nexus, something that becomes even more apparent in the second half of the book.  Through this dream sequence our protagonist finds that there is a monstrous collection of gods that watch the house and its inhabitants from a vast blank desert field.
After his battle with the swine creatures our protagonist descends into the belly of the earth, through a cave in his backyard (which we find later is actually connected to the cellar of the house as well).  What he finds there is just as cosmic in its revelations, but he goes no further and barely escapes with his life.
Then comes the second part of the book.  And this is where it becomes true 'cosmic horror' as the protagonist is given a glimpse of what the far-far future holds for the universe.  As he sleeps, he is thrown headlong into the future and must watch as his own body rots away behind him.  He sees the death of the sun, and eventually the death of the earth, and the other planets in the Solar System.  Finally, he must face that monstrous collection of gods once again and stay sane.
By book's end we are left with the impression that the world is an unstable collection of facile life and dust, under the control of some faceless entities that give not a wit for mankind's fate.
That's true 'cosmic horror' at its best.
Hodgson's other works were hit and miss with readers, and none ever reached the pinnacle of "The House on the Borderland".  This is a truly inspiring work, made all the more so as it was written long before Lovecraft, Machen, or Lord Dunsany tried their hands at 'cosmic horror'.
This review does come with one caveat: The grammar and style is a bit outdated, and may be a barrier for those unwilling to traverse an age or two of craft. 

--Nickolas Cook
