Everyone has their preconcieved ideas & expectations of someone as famous as Lauren Bacall.  Put them aside for a day or two while you read this book, for Lauren Bacall let's you see inside her PERSON; she shares an intimate portrait of a life.  She will be the first one to admit the luck (and gratitude)she feels, to have shared her life & enduring friendship with people who to all of us are only icons.  As with her own life, her friends are those whom we've only glimpsed in their public personnas.  We have seen them and devoured their movies and their "private life" in the arena of the world press.
Lauren Bacall shares her life, her fears, her triumphs, loves and friends with you in a setting so personal, so intimate, that you feel you actually share a kinship with them as you read this autobiography.  That is the great thing about this book.  She puts herself out there for you to care about or not, she offers no apologies for any choices she has made.
From the time she was a small child growing up in New York, Betty (her real name) knew she wanted to be an actress.  She was the child of an immigrant family from Romania and an American father who was absent from her life totally, to all intents and purposes.  Her mother tried to love her enough to make up for any lack on his part, and her mother's family were devoted to loving and caring for her too.  So surrounded by love but little in the way of worldy goods, she turned to her inner strength and her imagination.  Some of that inner strength came from not having a father, but knowing he was "out there somewhere", but did not care about her, some of it came for the poverty and want she experienced in her childhood.  Both her reserves of inner strength and determination would serve her well throughout her entire life to the present day.  She is now 80 years old as this book ends and very much her own strong and inspirational woman.
She was "discovered" by Howard Hawks who saw her modeling in an ad for the Red Cross which ended up on the cover of Harper's Bazaar Magazine.  As was the case in those days of the studio system, she was brought to Hollywood and groomed to portray a certain kind of woman, a fantasy of Howard Hawk's design.  No one really cared back then, who you really were on the inside, they tried to mold you into a hot commodity.  Bacall, an innocent, had entered into the "star system" of glamourous & smoldering sexuality and contractual servitude.
In the same sort of way as what happened to Orson Welles, her first picture thrust her into the straosphere of stardom on the screen and into the imagination of the American people.  She reached a pinnacle while still in her youth.  Yet Lauren Bacall managed to make for herself a lasting and lifetime career of spectacular achievement, not even dreamed possible by female actresses of the time from that luminous beginning.  She is still making films, has starred on Broadway & stages of the world (both in musicals and dramas), acted on live television, appeared in mini-series', and written a remarkable book.  In her tenacity she will try anything (despite her fears and insecurities) and that attitude has served her very well.
Before going to Hollywood, she had put herself "out there" countless times in her attempts to make her dreams & ambitions become reality.  She had the courage to try anything and to put herself in the right place at the right time.  Well before she ever was brought to Hollywood, she made what would be some of the most lasting friendships (and connections) in her life.  She knew Burgess Meredith, John Carradine, Diana Vreeland, George S. Kaufman and many, many others from those golden days of Broadway in New York.  They shared a mutual respect for one another, trusted one another and loved their chosen vocation.
During the making of her first movie, she met and fell in love with Humphrey Bogart.  He was married at the time to a self destructive and viciously jealous alcoholic (who died after Bogart & Bacall were married).  Bogart was resigned to spending the rest of his life in a loveless marriage with this woman because he felt her owed it to her to stick it out, no matter what.
Although surrounded by true friends, Bogart hungered for a more fulfilling life.  When he fell in love with Bacall, he could not help himself from feeling that she was what he needed to fill the emptiness his personal life had become.
Lauren Bacall writes honestly and lyrically about their love and their life together.  She marries Bogie and gives him a home and children and all the love he could ever need.  He gives her a life of undreamed glamour and luxury and entree' to a world she'd only fantasized about.  He shares honestly with her his way of dealing with those who wish to use you toward their own ends.  He teaches her the "ropes".  He lives in honesty and pragmatism.  She learns survival from him. Their marriage was a meeting of two forces of life; they fought and drank (he did) and loved and settled down together to make a home.  Bogart finally seemed to have it all; the love of a woman he adored and considered his equal, two beautiful children, and a welcoming home that was always open to friends and family.
Their 10+ years together are the stuff of Hollywoood legend but beneath that legend, that hype, Bacall lets us really see into their home and their relationship.  She lets us share in Bogart's courage and the heartbreak of his decline and his death
She let's us see what happens when they find out that Bogart has cancer.  (It's so interesting to read now of how little there was available back then in the field of medicine and how lucky we are to be livng in this age of rapidly emerging medical research).  Back then, cancer was almost always a death sentence, no one ever came right out and said that out loud though.  Cancer also carried a stigma in those days and it was kept quiet.  Bogart did not feel that way about it.  Together they bravely fought it with whatever the medical world could offer (little) and also let the world know he had it.  It could have ruined his career but we'll never know.  He and Lauren Bacall fought the good fight and lost.  Bogart became an enduring legend.  Lauren Bacall had to move on and fashion a life for herself.  In order to do that, she had to move away from being identified as "Mrs. Humphrey Bogart".  If she couldn't do that, she would live in his shadow forever.  She took the treasure of what would be the greatest love of her life and carried on toward her own fulfillment as an actress and a woman.
On page 303 of her book, Ms. Bacall says, " I want whoever reads these words to have a sense of Bogie-what he was, the personal mark he left on many varied lives".  Her portrait of him is so successful on that front that you feel her loss (and that of everyone else who loved him) acutely.
After the death of Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall is left a widow with two small children and a $500,000 legacy.  What she does with her life from here on out is of her own sense of determination and guts.
Although the book was written more than 25 years ago and recently reissued with another chapter of her life since then, it remains fresh and fascinating.  You will find her inspirational and accessable.  I read the book the first time it came out those many years ago and read it again this time with just as much relevence, joy and anticipation.  Her life resonates on many levels and it is filled with the genuine kind of friendships we wish we all had.  Of course, few of us will be in a position to know people intimately and as fascinating a Tracy and Hepburn or the multitude of others in the "biz" whose names she drops.  We will have to be content to read a book like this one; a book that is insightful and honest.  Ms. Bacall is an outstanding writer and chronicler of her own life.  I wish she would write fiction too.  I have a feeling she'd be great at it!

