I picked this book up on ACCIDENT, not realizing (despite the mention of Jesus on the back cover) that this is a Christian chick-lit book.  I don't normally read this genre, having been punished in my earlier attempts to be open-minded when I encountered "Christian" chick lit that turned out to be judgemental and racist, but claimed exemption of those accusations by hiding behind Christ's name.

So imagine my surprise that "Considering Lily" is REALISTIC, OPEN-HEARTED, OPEN-MINDED CHRISTIAN CHICK LIT.  There were no offensive or racist comments, it was never preachy or self-righteous, and there was even some acknowledgement of so-called Christians' biting and mean-spirited criticisms ("Well, we know how judgemental Christians can be," Lily thinks when mentally defending her friend who wears a bikini to the pool rather than a conservative one-piece).  I also really appreciated that there were "non-Christian" characters in the book who were not viewed  as interlopers/heathens/evil incarnate, and even when the non-Christians attended church services (lost a bet, to appease a boyfriend, etc.) or developed relationships with the Singles in Lily's group, it was never in a proselytizing/saving/conversion way; the non-Christians were left to keep/develop their own beliefs without harrassment; we don't know if they will ever embrace Christ or not, but the reader is left feeling positive about those characters.

One of the best things about this book is that, aside from not being overly judgemental, none of the characters feels it necessary to thrust their beliefs into every facet and interaction of their life.  The humble way that the Christians in this book keep their faith as something that is mainly personal shows how sincerely and deeply they experience Christ's presence.  Lily's boyfriend is even somewhat of a closeted Christian.  Plus, how cool is it that he has "a past" that we can only imagine-- mainly because the guy's made peace with it and doesn't need to flaunt his adventures or use it as a televangelistic cautionary tale.  This guy is a true model of living the faith, accepting one's faults, repenting for sins, and moving on.

I'm only giving "Considering Lily" four out of five stars because in some parts it does get boring.  However, there are so many things that are RIGHT about the way this book was written that I can overlook some low-interest scenes here and there. There are great lines scattered througout the book, and while San Francisco (my birthplace) is only the setting and could be interchangeable with any major city, the authors depict it respectfully and avoid stereotyping the people who color this great cosmopolis.  

I am not a Christian, so take into consideration how much more weight my endorsement of this book carries.  My congratulations to the authors
