I'm a feminist who doesn't read a lot of feminist fiction because I find a lot of politically-oriented fiction -- well, really boring. All politics upfront but no heart to the characters or wit in the prose. Joanna Russ's "Picnic on Paradise" is the exception that proves the rule, a joyously written novel that carries it feminist ideals front and center and yet gets at something truly wonderful. (Virginia Woolf has nothing on Joanna Russ!)

The plot: Alyx is a woman plucked from a distant era in Earth's history (possibly ancient Greece or Thessalia) by a travel agency in the distant future that caters to bored, rich, jaded humans who pay good money to be taken on an adventure. Tough-as-a-cookie Alyx, gloriously gritty and real, guides her little group of fatted sheep... I mean, tourists, through mishaps and dangers, striving to maintain the perfect balance between the illusion of danger and actual perfect safety, only, of course, things go awry and suddenly the tourists find themselves on a very real, very dangerous adventure. The plot of the novel is fairly straitforward and pure -- what makes the book so interesting is everything else. 

What I loved the most is the extraordinary vividness of the writing and the emotions. Russ's prose is very beautiful, almost startling and convoluted as poetry. She writes about future alien worlds and wonders with gorgeously visual words and paints pictures of the strange new world Alyx has been dropped into, and all of it glows with the humor and chic toughness of Alyx's POV. I can't say enough about Russ's prose, or her handling of Alyx as a character: it's almost cliche, but Alyx's like an onion: pearly layers, strong-smelling and real, slowly peeled off one by one as the story goes along, until at the end, I felt a sense of intimacy with her that I didn't thought possible when I started "Picnic". You can probably tell I'm more than a little bit in love with Alyx. I think most narrative fiction lives or dies by the strength of the characters, and I truly think Alyx is one of the great and interesting heroines of literary science fiction. 

The story has it all: feminism, strange new world SF, a great central character, an emotional arc, linguistic playfulness, and even a touching love story that defies almost every convention about love stories. A seriously beautiful book; highly recommended.
