In my opinion, the play Death of a Salesman was both positive and negative. Like any story, this one had its ups and downs which in a way are good to help the reader relate to the characters in different situations. Willy Loman, the main character, and his family had confrontations which are normal in a household occasionally, but the Loman family had them quite often, practically normal ion their daily routine. Willy's attitude were at first a turn-off for me, but upon further observation and seeing the whole story, behind Willy's hurt and pain, it is realized his disappointment seemingly toward everyone else honestly is aimed toward himself. Willy's ungrateful and unsatisfying spirit caused a downfall to both his family as well as himself.  Nevertheless, I could have done without the use of all the profanity.
I believe Arthur Miller's main purpose in writing this piece was to brutally share his opinion of the "American Dream". Willy's search for happiness never came and all he had done didn't amount to anything when everything was said and done. Willy worked and worked, driving to Boston each week, hardly making enough money to cover the gas he spent on his trip there, for the satisfaction of his customers. Years passed and his customers were now either retired or dead, but Willy holds on to the faith that this new generation will give him the respect he needs and deserves. He is wrong and Willy is crushed by the harsh reality that he is a no one now and he feels useless and that his life is over, because he no longer received his "smile or a shoeshine."
	Although this has not been my favorite play this year, I have learned a lot from it. Actually, I have learned something from each specific main character. From Willy, I have learned to be grateful for the family I have no matter how dysfunctional it may be. I have also learned to live each day to the fullest and to do what I love with my life because it will be gone before I have truly experienced happiness if I'm not careful. From Linda, the sweet and caring wife, I have learned to be more straight-forward with my concerns. She kept a lot of issues from Willy because she was afraid of hurting him, I noticed in my life I have that problem too, hoping and wishing it will go away but not taking action myself. She has taught me to be more aggressive with issues I face. Biff, the star child has taught me to do what I want with my life. Ultimately it is up to me what I will be and how I will succeed and that I shouldn't have to live in the shadow of anyone who has gone before me, whether they are a parent or close friend. Last but not least, Happy has taught me to not try to please others so much. It was ridiculous in my opinion to read abut him competing for attention form his own father, but in the end, he was the one trying to fulfill his fathers dream. 
	Despite the parts of this play I truly didn't agree with, concerning Willy's affair, I believe I would recommend this book to someone if I felt they were heading down the path Willy went. This play had a lot of double meanings though, so if I was to recommend it, I would also recommend a commentary of some sort, to help them analyze each situation as they read along, as we did in Drama class. I enjoyed this play and I am appreciative of Arthur Miller's bluntness toward his subject. The play spoken in modern-day English was also a plus for me because it lessened the confusion. In conclusion, I would like to say, be all you can be and live for yourself, not for those around you. 
