One of a handful of books that made me cry. And not just get teary eyed, but actually cry.

This one is the first book in Brockmann's Navy SEAL Team 16 series. I got this one to read after randomly reading the 6th book in the series.

Anyway, good book. It's about team commander Tom Paoletti who is on medical leave after sustaining a head injury in a helicopter explosion. He has residual dizziness, and possibly paranoia as side effects. So he goes back to his hometown where he was once a total bad boy. At the same time he's there, the girl he was in love with as a 19 year old (she was 15...they only ever kissed) has returned home to take care of her dying father (she's a doc.). At the airport, Tom thinks he sees a man who is a terrorist known as The Merchant. The only problem is the Merchant is thought dead. Tom doesn't know whether he really saw him or his head injury made him think he did. The book, then, is about his romance with Kelly, and the terrorist.

Brockmann's style in these books is a little difficult to get used to. The book isn't just about the male/female pairing and the suspense plot. She actively uses supporting characters as more than just people to move the story along. They have full-fledged roles and romances...not as focused on as the main two, but still fairly major roles. Sometimes they are other members of Team 16, sometimes they are relatives of the other characters. Also in the 2 books I've read, she has sections that look back on some point in the past. With this book, it was scenes involving Kelly's father and Tom's great-uncle and their time as spies in WW2 France.

At first, it's a little difficult to keep your head in the book because the scenes are going back and forth between all the characters involved and the history scenes. But then once you get into all the stories being told, you don't really mind. There was a really great romance between Tom's niece, and this geek named David. The history scenes were interesting, maybe longer than they needed to be, but they were a pretty big part of the story as they explained why Kelly's father and Joe's uncle acted the way they did, which in turn played a role in how the book ended. So everything tied together.

The end made me cry. It was so sad/tragic/poignant. And absolutely fitting. I think I liked it better than the other one I read, #6, but I'm not sure. The books are in a way very connected. The characters don't just pop up in their individual book, they have roles in the other books. The male/female lead from #6 are first introduced in #1, and the male/female lead from #1 are major players in #6. It adds a completely new aspect to the 6th book (which is why they should be read in order). So I kinda see some of the things from #6 in a different light now that I've read #1.

Rating: 4 / 
