Miss Jean Brodie is a spinster and a teacher who can teach anything to her students. But she is a peculiar teacher. She doesn't care spending her class times with mathematics, history, English and all other regular subjects. She prefers to explore life, to teach her set of students --the chosen ones-- how to deal with life, love, friends and have good manners. Of course she will have problems with the school administration. 

This is a summary of Muriel Spark's most important novel, "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" in a nutshell. And however the book is really short, it has a wide range of subject and characters. The writer explores not only the life of her heroine but also the existence of a couple of her students. Part of the characters is very human and part is rather archetypical. It would top notch if the author could have transformed all of them in human beings. However it turns out not to be a problem, since the narrative is quite entertaining and an interesting portray of a time.

The best creation is, of course, Miss Jean Brodie. She sounds stereotypical some time, some times a little naïve, but never uninteresting. She has advices for everything: "speech is silver, but silence is golden", a window can be opened more than six inches, it would be too vulgar; and so it goes. While for her girls they are quite important, for the readers they can be rather amusing. It is impossible to one not the wonder weather those advices are for real or some far fetched thoughts from Miss Brodie's mind.

Using the style of anticipation, early in the narrative we learn things that will only happen many years later, like the fact that one girl will betray Miss Brodie, and that another one will become a Sister. This device may put off some readers due to the fact it cuts short the surprise in the narrative. 

However much I liked Miss Brodie and her adventures, I've never felt really connected to the book. There was always something missing to make me sink in the narrative and in the lives of the characters. Maybe a lack of emotion --most of it read a little to superficial to me--, or the theme --this may be a novel that have more connection with girls. But, I still recommend "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie". It is a fast an interesting read. 
