The connection we have with our mothers is sacred.  They are what brought us into this world, but the only thing that could separate us tighter is death.  Our spirits and memories are ours to keep, but there is no longer any physical connection.  In &quot;A Very Easy Death&quot;, a relationship with a mother and daughter had gotten closer because of a death.  In this death is what bonds the daughter to give full dedication and devotion to be with her mother. Unfortunately, the death that is connecting both daughter and mother is the death of her mother that is about to occur.  Cancer is what is taking her mother away from her.  While her mother is suffering and fighting against the cancer, the daughter is there by her side.  She notices, &quot;a full-blooded, spirited woman lived on inside her, but a stranger to herself, deformed and mutilated (Beauvoir 43).&quot;  Simone, the daughter, sees her full-hearted, spirited mother inside, but the cancer is the stranger of her body that is deforming and mutilating her. Although, Simone shows no suffering when she's around her mother, but she is indeed disturb when she's alone.  Her mother is leaving her.  Simone state &quot;everyday had an irreplaceable value for her.  And she was going to die.  She did not know it:  but I did.  In her name, I revolted against it (Beauvoir 83).&quot;  Simone is spending precious time with her mother - spending valuable time, but the cancer is what is stopping her mother to notice it.  The cancer has taken over her mother's life.  This still does not stop Simone from being with her though. There is nowhere in doubt I'll leave my mother while she's miserable and suffering all at once.  I cannot bare to think my mother actually leaving me, but it has to happen eventually.  In &quot;A Very Easy Death&quot;, Simone's mother demonstrates a role model on her own daughter and me.  She displays a true role model that is fighting against her death.  I enjoyed this novel dearly.  It showed me that I should always keep that connection I have with my mother until the day &quot;I&quot; die
