Scott Isaacs with Todd Leopold, Hormonal Balance (Bull, 2002)

Scott Isaacs' diet book is not the kind of thing people pick up, flick through, and try. Which is a shame, really. Hormonal Balance doesn't just hand you promises of "lose this much weight in this much time" and cover it with a thin scree of what looks like science. In fact, the science behind the diet covers the first three hundred pages of the book. Thick reading for the diet book crowd indeed.

Another difference between Isaacs' book and most of the others is that Isaacs, when talking about the various hormones, what they do, and what problems deficiencies or excesses may cause, is not afraid to let the reader know when he's heading out into uncharted or controversial waters. For example, many diet books tell you to get away from aspartame, but don't bother to tell you why. They don't tell you this because much of the research on which they're basing that advice has been debunked, or was never scientific in the first place. Isaacs, on the other hand, is more than willing to say when something he's talking about hasn't been tested on humans, or is still in the hypothetical stages. This leads to more of a sense of the ability to trust the man; always good when looking to someone for health advice.

The book's difficult going, but not too much of a bear. Hormonal Balance is written not to be read by other endocrinologists, but by John Q. Public, and Isaacs never forgets that the average joe knows nothing, or less, about what he's on about. The end result is a readable book about a subject many doctors are still in the dark about.

As for the diet itself, it's far more of a common-sense thing than most of the popular diets of the past thirty years; balanced food, lots of fruit and vegetables, egg whites or egg substitute, as much diet soda as you want (finally, someone willing to concede that not all soda is packed with sugar and calories!), etc. The kind of thing you'd probably be doing, if you didn't have that all-consuming obsession with chocolate, ice cream, that sort of thing. You know.

Solid stuff. If you're sick of diet books, pick this up. You probably won't need another one. *** 
