When I read and reviewed O'Reilly's IPv6 Network Administration by Niall Richard Murphy and David Malone, I called their book "a must-have book for all network administrators."  Upon seeing Apress' Running IPv6 by Iljitsch van Beijnum, I wondered if I would waste my time reading and reviewing another book on IPv6.  Now I'm glad I digested Running IPv6 -- it's my first must-read book of 2006.  The books are complementary, so I recommend them both.

Three years ago I read and reviewed van Beijnum's book on BGP, which I liked while thinking it was somewhat terse.  In Running IPv6, van Beijnum strikes the proper balance between explanatory language and technical details.  Every chapter in the new book taught me something useful.  In Ch 1 I liked comparisons involving IPv4, IPv6, IPX, DECnet, AppleTalk, and OSI CLNP.  In Ch 2 I enjoyed sections on using 48 bit MAC addresses in IPv6 addresses.  Ch 3 featured tips on the "on-link" assumption.  As would be expected in a book by a BGP expert, Ch 4 provided lots of guidance on routing IPv6.  Ch 5 included history on the evolution of DNS for IPv6, with RFCs 1886 and 2874 competing for primacy.

Ch 6 covered issues that applications might encounter when handling IPv6.  Ch 7 introduced the "HD ratio," which estimates the point at which the effort required to manage increasingly "used-up" address space suggests that expanding it would be more efficient.  Ch 8 mentioned the headaches caused by automatically generated, multiple MAC addresses for IPv6 multicast.  Ch 9 scared me with use of the multicast ping for host discovery.  Ch 10 was the first time I saw an effort to show how to use Tcpdump with IPv6.

I had no real issues with Running IPv6.  I found a few production errors and typos that can be fixed in later printings.  All are obvious, except the use of the word "maximum" in the first sentence of the last paragraph on p. 153.  (I think that should be "minimum.")  

Like IPv6 Network Administration, I liked van Beijnum's attention to command syntax for multiple OS' -- especially FreeBSD.  He even covered Cisco and Juniper in the same book.  Since I suggest reading the O'Reilly and Apress titles, I recommend reading the former first and the latter second.  Van Beijnum's book is best read by those with a little more exposure to IPv6, but it can certainly stand alone if need be.

If you plan to ever have anything to do with IPv6, you must buy van Beijnum's latest book.  Bravo
