Anthony Esolen does it again to bring us a powerfully translated and  edited poem, originally in Latin, now for the modern reader. This is a dark  and brooding poem that was written by Torquato Tasso when he was slowly  going mad.  His fixation was on the subject of the first Crusade to free  Jerusalem from the Moslems, which was led by Godfrey of Bouillon and the  peers of France.  This was a subject of Tasso's interest since he was an 18  year old boy,who published a poem about Rinaldo, one of the key figures in  the current story.  Tasso eventually extensively revised &quot;Gerusalemme  liberata&quot;, removing its amorous portions to publish &quot;Gerusalemme  conquistada&quot; at age 49.  The darkness of the original poem is tempered  by the love stories, but it remains a violent story with a concentration on  the horrors of war and of love also.  For example, in the middle of the  story of an intense battle, Soliman, the powerful Turkish sultan, sees his  young page cut down: &quot;Sees how the trembling eyes so gracefully shut,  and the neck falls limp, as if in sleep; so sweet the whiteness of his  face, so sweet the pity his dying semblance breathes, that deep in his  then-stony heart something grew soft and the spring burst through his  anger: he must weep.  You, Soliman weeping...who stood by while your realm  was destroyed, and your eyes dry.  But when he sees the enemy's sword still  slick and steaming with the blood of the young lad, pity gives way to anger  boiling quick and all the tears within his heart are dead&quot;(Canto 9,  #86-87).  The contrast of darkness and jumping-out vividness in the story  cause Esolen to refer to Tasso as a Caravaggio of poetry, an apt  comparison.  Although the story gets off to a traditionally slow start, it  builds to a fever pitch and you suddenly are hit by what makes this a great  poem.  The poem is divided into 20 songs or Cantos for a total of  396  pages, complemented by an erudite Introduction and a discussion at the end  of the book about the use of allegory, a list of the cast of characters,  and 47 pages of notes that help to put the story into literary perspective.   I recommend just reading the poem first, and then consulting the notes,  since sometimes too much of the overall plot is revealed in a brief  description of the characters or in the notes
