After twenty years of writing experimental fiction and Hollywood screenplays, Faulkner seemed destined to create a novel like "Intruder in the Dust"--a noir-ish mystery set in Yoknapatawpha County, Mississippi, that incorporates his signature prose style into a continuing commentary on race relations in the South.  The premise of the accusation of a black man for the murder of a white man may seem too facile, but the novel does not rely solely or even primarily on plot-driven intrigue; it is the criminal aspect only as it relates to the prevalent social attitudes that generates interest. 

One day a local white man named Vinson Gowrie is found shot to death, and a black man named Lucas Beauchamp is arrested at the scene and charged with the murder.  In this part of the country at this time in history, a black man who is even suspected of murdering a white man is in danger of being lynched, especially by people like Gowrie's relatives, who are from a particularly rough and bloodthirsty enclave living in an area called Beat Four.  

The story is told in the third person but from the viewpoint of a white boy named Charles "Chick" Mallison, who in the past has tried to befriend the solitary but kind Beauchamp and is convinced of his innocence.  With the help of his uncle Gavin Stevens, a lawyer who decides to represent Beauchamp, his black friend Aleck Sander, and an elderly spinster named Miss Habersham, Chick investigates the matter and discovers, unsurprisingly, that there is more to the case than initially meets the eye.  

This sounds like generic pulp detective stuff, and indeed there is not much to say about the plot except that it involves a lumber scam, quicksand, a false grave, and a real culprit who is not too bright; but what makes this novel worth reading is the insight it gives about how easily in this milieu a black man can conveniently take the heat for a white man's crime, regardless of provability of guilt, and the ethical implications that arise from this situation.  There is a particular manner in which the characters communicate with each other that reveals this information, conveying Faulkner's sublime sense of the range of personal moralities. 

Faulkner has several narrative modes at his disposal, and the one he chooses here is similar to that of "Absalom! Absalom!", employing impossibly long and syntactically deformed run-on sentences that compress copious visual detail into quickly moving scenic impressions.  This technique could annoy many, but for those who know how to "read" Faulkner, it may be accepted as a characteristic part of the package.  I'd place "Intruder in the Dust" somewhat below "Sanctuary" as an aesthetic achievement, but I still commend it as satisfying, like that tasty last bit of dessert after a full meal.

