Historian Paul Johnson provides an extremely well written, in depth investigation into the 4,000 year history of the Jewish people.

This is an incredible study, written with due precision and well worth a place in anyone's library.

From a Christian perspective the author acknowledges at the outset the enormous depth that Christianity owes to Judaism and his discovery that, contrary to his earlier teachings, the New Testament had not replaced the Old.

Within the context of Jewish ancestry, the author cites early in the text of this excellent work that "the Jews are thus the only people in the world today who possess a historical record, however obscure in places, which allows them to trace their origins back into very remote times".

The study, spanning some 600 pages, reaches back to the time of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob (Israel) and the Genesis account, before extending through the millenia to the present day. The periods of exile and the rebirth of their historic Jewish nation/homeland are also commendably studied together with the ongoing regathering of the physical descendants of Israel to their historic homeland. 

Further content includes the Arab/Israeli conflict, wars and ongoing terrorism including anti-Semitism within the surrounding Arab/Islamic world and the role of the UN.

Attention is also paid to the immense contribution of Jews to science, physiology and medicine etc., etc. and the subsequent awards of numerable Nobel prizes.

It becomes evident as the reader progresses through this study that, despite the Diaspora, a Jewish presence has remained in their ancient homeland throughout antiquity, showing the Jews to be the only truly indigenous people in the Land. A worthy factor to be considered by students of this subject.

The book comprises of seven major sections (each with sub-sections of it's own), namely;
Part One; Israelites.
Part Two; Judaism.
Part Three; Cathedocracy.
Part Four; Ghetto.
Part Five; Emancipation.
Part Six; Holocaust.
Part Seven; Zion.

Through the immense content, the reader is provided with a considerably detailed account of how, despite innumerable pograms, forced conversions, persecutions, ethnic cleansing from somenations during their Diaspora, and even the more recent pursuit of their genocide in Europe, the Jews have still retained their distinctive nationality, recognizable identity and traceable ancestry. 

Reference is made to how, wherever & whenver possible, Jewish communities have still continued in their Jewish lifestyle, religious practicies, traditions, feasts and festivals.

The reader is shown how since the Diaspora beginning some 2,000 years ago, at Passover the Jews have optimistically looked forward to leaving their homes in exile and celebrating the "next Passover in Jerusalem", fulfilling the ancient dream of being a free people in their own land.
 
"Next year in Jerusalem" being the wish of Diaspora Jews, scattered from their homeland yet acknowledging their spiritual and historical home is Israel, specifically, Jerusalem. 

Psalm 137 referred to as the well-known lament of the Babylonian Jews who wept "by the rivers of Babylon" and declared, "If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand wither...." 

The attempts throughout history, not least during the Holocaust, to destroy or assimilate the Jewish people are given due attemption. The failure of such being documented. That said the study shows in no uncertain terms that this process of hatred is still ongoing, citing the anti-Semitism in the Arab world and the international community, not forgetting the UN itself.

The plight of exiled Jews under both Islam and the Church also receive due recognition. Not least of these are the "dhimmi" status of Jews in Islamic nations and how the "Christian" doctrine of "replacement" theology (where Israel is replaced in Scripture by the Church etc.) gave rise to so much anti-Semitism. 

The reader receives an awareness from the text of how "replacing" Israel within some "Christian" teachings is an expedient way of de-legitimising the place of the Jews in the Hebrew Christian Scriptures. Similarly the reader also sees how any talk of alleged assimilation of the Jews with the peoples of the lands to which they had been exiled, expediently invalidates any claims that the Jews of today are the people of antiquity returning to the homeland of their ancestors. The considerable detail provided shows such alleged assimilation to be a myth.

It is impossible to avoid noticing from the text how so many entities, religions and nations have done their utmost to destroy the Jewish people and to ridicule the place of the Jews within the Scriptures and cast disdain upon Israel as a nation within the Middle East.

Might I respectfully recommend to those interested in the issues addressed here, an excellent book by Professor Moshe Gil entitled "A History of Palestine, 634-1099".

This outstanding work details how, again despite the Diaspora, at the time of the Muslim conquest in 7th century AD the majority of the population of what was then "Palestine" was indeed Jewish. Jews who referred to the Land as al-Sham (the Samaritans also being inclusive in this majority). 

The Jewish population itself illustrated to not only be "survivors from the revolt against the Romans", but also to consist of the "direct descendants" of the generations of Jews who had lived there since the days of Joshua bin Nun. 

In other words, a continual Jewish presence spanning some 2,000 years prior to the Islamic conquest. Thank you for your time.
