James delivers an exquisitely descriptive account of the only slave revolt that ultimately lead to the founding of a black republic in the heart of the Caribbean.  This well written book reads like prose making it an easy  read.  James does an excellent job of letting the reader know who the  players in San Domingo were before and during the revolution including -  the big whites (planters); small whites (artisans and professionals);  mulattoes and blacks.  The psychological make up and desires of each class  is fully explained so that the reader instantly understands why alliances  between the groups were formed and dissolved over time and their effect on  colonial government.  The character of Toussaint L'Ouverture, the black  general who led the slave revolt and administered the colonial government,  is discussed throughout the book and insights into his thinking and  perspective are gained through his written correspondence and his  governmental orders.  This allows the reader to gain an in-depth  understanding of L'Ouverture as a 3 dimensional persona.  The book contains  an excellent bibliography for reference.   	Black Jacobins however is  not without some minor flaws. First, although James gives a good account of  the desires of various sectors of French society, he fails to give as rich  an account of the motivations and perspectives of the French statesmen  operating in France.  Second, James discussion of Dessaline, L'Ouverture's  general who persecuted the revolt to its end, is not dealt with in the same  depth as the other major personas.  Other writers have undoubtedly covered  Dessaline but it would have been nice to gain James' perspective.   	 Critics of James have gone as far as to suggest that he subverts racial  dynamics for class dynamics.  Two points on this issue refute this notion.   First, James provides ample information on the role of race in shaping the  motivations of the major partisan groups.  Indeed, the reader gains a real  appreciation for the prominent role mulattoes played in the revolution and  how their attitudes on race and liberty helped shape the alliances they  made.  Second, writing as a son of Haitian immigrants, I can attest to the  fact that Haitians don't perceive race prejudice in Haiti the same way  blacks to in the United States.  This is not surprising considering that  blacks constitute not only the social but also a political majority in  Haiti.  Rather Haitian society is more sensitive to distinctions in color,  education and background.  Since color distinctions was the only factor  relevant during the revolution, James only deals with that particular  distinction and he does so in a balanced manner.   	Finally, the  prospective purchaser of Black Jacobins should be aware that James espouses  a Marxist worldview.  However, his ideology is not so pervasive as to  render the book unpalatable to non-subscribers of Marxism.  James provides  ample independent references for his historical accounts and the critical  reader will find that the conclusions he draws are credible.  I would  recommend this book
