This book by social psychologist Jonathan Haidt is a great read even if there is nothing exactly new in it. Its strength lies in its breadth and consolidation of information. 

It begins with information about the evolution of the brain and Haidt uses an apt metaphor of our conscious self being the rider of our much larger unconscious elephant self. Our conscious rider-self is both enabling us to live in very large social groups and acting on behalf of the interests of our instinctive elephant-self. The rider is like a lawyer fighting for the elephant in a public court.

Haidt says that reciprocity is the basic currency of social life. Reputation is also very important. Happiness is highly heritable but still requires good relationships and engaging work. He discusses the role of oxytocin in our development of attachment relationships and the role this may play in our sense of belonging and ultimately our religious or mystical experiences of merging with all life and the calmness it brings.

What it boils down to, as it so often does, is the individual in relation to the group. While we have evolved mechanisms to live in groups we also have problems either for some individuals within groups who feel poorly treated or conflict between groups. Haidt discusses the importance of the social inclusion of diverse groups but that this also needs a consensus regarding moral norms and values. 

The author considers the costs of the inner chatter we live with as a consequence of the development of the rider-self which was crucial to the development of human society. Happiness comes from our rider-self working well with our elephant-self and with the (particularly social) environment. There are some suggestions on how to work towards this and positive psychology is making some useful contributions. Though Haidt touches on evolutionary psychology there is much more within this field that can raise our biological/evolutionary consciousness and shed further light on our 'elephant selves', our inner conflicts and our social conflicts.

As long as religion or mystical experience which Haidt discusses at some length does not blind us to the biological and evolutionary reality behind such experiences - and we face the facts of self-interest and 'us and them' consequences - then 'religious' experiences, with or without God(s), can be appreciated as a factor in human happiness. This is my main concern about the book but it is certainly worth reading
