No really, I mean it. 

Or anyway, it will be, once you calm yourself, little aphid, and penetrate to the heart of "Throwing the Elephant", Zen Master Stanley Bing's exegesis on the sublime art of applying the infinite wisdom of Siddhartha himself to the sinews, guts, entrails and viscera of the business jungle, and mastering the King of the Beasts himself. 

No, silly, not the Lion. The Elephant. 

You don't know about the Elephant in the room? Sure you do. 

Let's step back a moment: let's meditate. Calm. Relax. Get in touch with the great infinite blackness of stars and even more stars wheeling and dancing and colliding above us and about us, and what the Hell, after a few vodka gimlets down at Dorsia, maybe even *through* us. 

Did you know see that star overhead? See how it twinkles? Now imagine: the light from that star has taken thousands, perhaps millions of light-years to travel from Constellation Seti Prime, which means that by the time we see it twinkle, the star itself may very well have exploded. Or subsided into the stellar senesence of a red dwarf. That is to say, that star you're wishing upon may already be long dead. 

Kinda puts the McGillicuddy Account in perspective, huh? 

I could end this review with that, but I'll proceed a bit further: sit beneath the bodhi tree with Zen Master Bing. He'll teach you about the Elephant. He'll teach you about the Great Nothingness which flows around and through you. He'll teach you, as Sidhartha taught him, that desire is suffering, that there is only the dharma, and at its heart, Duty. 

Duty? Why yes: to serve and keep and feed and groom and care for the Elephant. To not annoy it. To console it when it is sad, and galumph about with it (beware the feet!) when it is joyous. To sweep up its poop, and to clean off its poopy hindquarters. To leash it, to ride it, and ultimately, to throw it. 

But let's talk, quickly, about the Elephant. All offices have one, perhaps a few. The Elephant has its pen in one of the corners of the executive suite: good digs, maybe even a working fireplace up here on the 37th floor, possibly a wet bar, maybe even an in-house masseuse. 

Can you smell the sweet rotten reek of straw and sweat and blood and tears and dung? Yep, the Elephant. It will sally forth, to trumpet and do other bellicose things in the jungle: the lowly creatures in its vicinity (hint: you) will keep their heads down, fall silent, try not to make sudden moves or loud noises.

The Elephant will make you fear for your career, your home, your wife, your small children, your very life. It will make you work over the weekend, or cut short the long-planned trip to Bermuda. It will force you to work long hours and give lots of face time. 

Ah, yes: now there is recognition. The Elephant. 

So with that, then, this quick little primer---Bing the Bhodissatva practically puts the KO in Koan---will teach you how to abide, control, and ultimately master this fell beast, without being stamped to jelly. And it's a tasty little read, that goes down like cucumber paste. How cool is that? 

As the Buddha himself once said, as he sat beneath his bhodi tree: Very.

JS
