As always, the first thing one must answer in regards to the worth of a book from 1818 is whether it has any application to the present day? In the case of Clausewitz's On War, we can answer with a definitive yes. This is not a work only about armed conflict. It addresses many aspects of psychology and human behavior. The chapter on Tactics does have some dated elements such as those concerning bayonet charges and defiles, but the virtues of the surprise attack and the need to concentrate on the enemy's weakest point remains integral to modern warfare. Of most value is the Strategy section, which can only be described as timeless. That public opinion must be considered before interventions are planned is quite current (to say the least). Throughout the strategic discussion, I could not help but think of the star-crossed General Gamelin who was exactly the opposite, in practice, of the author's ideal leader. He violated every principle as he used fortifications as an end in themselves rather than as a means to defeat the enemy outside them. The folly of forever remaining on the defensive was all too apparent to the world back in May of 1940. That a successful leader is one who makes heroic decisions based on reason is undeniable and this is the quintessential characteristic of inspired leadership. Risk, audacity, cunning, shrewdness, and strength of mind are attributes of which all men are not made which is why greatness is such a rarity. Such features were certainly present in Churchill, and entirely absent in Gamelin. As an aside, I had to laugh though upon encountering a sentence wherein he instructs his Royal Highness that he "must become acquainted" with the ideas discussed. To speak in such a fashion to a monarch must have been most unusual for a servant in those days. Once again, Clausewitz's On War proves how much the past continues to say about the present. 

Lastly allow me to make mention of a personal experience I had while rereading this the other day. I was going into a federal building and knew that I'd be in for a long wait at my destination. I brought the book with me and, upon entering, placed it upon the conveyer belt before walking through the metal detectors. The guard on the other end picked it up, looked at the title and scrunched his face up. I thought, "Oh no." He then gave it to me with a smile and said, "Looks good." Quite right.
