This book was the best I have read of Picoult, though I don't think she knows how to write a bad one! It explores the Amish community and the story takes place in that setting.

A young Amish girl, Katie had a baby and denied she was pregnant, as in the Amish community, which is very strict, girls bring a lot of shame to their families with sins such as these. And Katie denied it the whole time she was pregnant, managing to conceal this from her family the whole time. Until of course, when she goes into labor, and walk out to the barn to have the child, whome she lies in the hay after having it, and goes back into the house. Of course the child was discovered the next morning dead, the police are called in, and Katie is one of the girls questioned. She denies it ever happening, even when the police noted her gowns covered in blood. She gets hauled off to the hospital, and there it was verified that Katie did indeed have a child, but she says there is no way. No one is going to believe her, of course, and she gets arrested for highly suspected murder in the first degree, especially when it was found that the baby had a shirt around him, seemingly to cover him up, or smother him? The answer is revealed later.

Anyhow, Ellie a hotshot defense attorney who knows how to get her clients off the hook, is appointed to Katie, and under her strict custody as the only way to keep her from going straight to prison. So Ellie packs up her bags, and has to adapt to a whole new world for some time until Katie's trial begins. And, this way, she will also get to know Katie and try to dig up the real story about what happened. But everytime they talk, Katie changes her story, ending up in tears. So to build her case a bit more strongly, Ellie consults her former lover Coop, of who is a shrink to let him question/examine Katie. It is then that Katie begins slowly, to tell what happened, finally admitting to the pregnancy. Once she does, she must confess to the Amish church, and after confession, she goes under the 'ban' they call it where she is shunned by her entire family; parents and everybody. 

Katie had an older brother, Jacob, who broke all the Amish rules, and was of course disowned by his own family. Katie had a once a month time where she herself broke away from the tight, strict Amish circle, and would visit Jacob, and be like any other teenager. It was there that she met Adam, and the two enjoyed romance together. This is where the pregnancy happened.

As the story moves on, the trial is coming around. A jury will decide whether or not Katie is innocent or guilty of killing her child. The book is really not predictable here, and leaves you in suspense all the way as to its conclusion
