Henry Mintzberg is Professor of Management Studies at McGill University and Professor of Organization at INSEAD. Bruce Ahlstrand is Professor of Management at Trent University in Ontario, Canada. Joseph Lampel is Professor of Strategy at City University Business School, London. All authors have written extensive numbers of articles and books on management issues. This book was published in 1998.

The first chapter provides an explanation for the title of the book. "We are the blind people and strategy formation is our elephant ... The next ten chapters describe ten parts of our strategy-formation beast." Each chapter discusses one "school of thought", whereby each school of thought "has a unique perspective that focuses ... on one major aspect of the strategy-formation process." The authors argue that strategy requires five definitions, which they term the "five Ps of strategy". "This book departs from this traditional view in its attempt to provide a more balanced survey of the field, with all of its contradictions and controversies."

In each of the following 10 chapters, there is a basic introduction on the premises, a discussion of recent developments and a critique of the individual "school of thought", followed by a final concluding paragraph which includes the authors' opinions. It is important to note that each chapter has a subtitle which gives away quite a bit on the school of thought.

The second chapter discusses the Design School: Strategy Formation as a Process of Conception, which is the most influential view of the strategy-formation process. "Its key concepts continue to form the base of undergraduate and MBA strategy courses as well as a great deal of the practice of strategic management. " The design school model places primary emphasis on the appraisals of the external (threats and opportunities in the environment) and internal situations (strengths and weaknesses of the organization).

The Planning School: Strategy Formation as a Formal Process is discussed in the third chapter. "The central message of the planning school fitted in neatly with the whole trend in management education and big business as well as big government practice: formal procedure, formal training, formal analysis, lots of numbers."

The Positioning School: Strategy Formation as an Analytical Process which is discussed in the fourth chapter opened up the prescriptive side of the field to substantial investigation by focusing on the content of strategies. "The positioning school ... argued that only a few key strategies - as positions in the economic marketplace - are desirable in any given industry: ones that can be defended against existing and future competitors."

The fifth chapter - The Entrepreneurial School: Strategy Formation as a Visionary Process - introduces the first school of description, which seek to understand the process formation as it unfolds. "Not only has this school focused the strategy formation process exclusively on the single leader, but it has also stressed the most innate of mental states and processes - intuition, judgment, wisdom, experience, insight."

The sixth chapter discusses the Cognitive School: Strategy Formation as a Mental Process, which is about understanding strategic vision as well as how strategies form under other circumstances. "That is the job of the cognitive school: to get at what this process means in the sphere of human cognition, drawing especially on the field of cognitive psychology." The authors believe that if it the cognitive school can deliver on its intentions, "it could very well transform the teaching and practice of strategy".

The Learning School: Strategy Formation as an Emergent Process, which is examined in the seventh chapter, suggests that strategists learn over time. "According to this school, strategies emerge as people, sometimes acting individually but more often collectively, come to learn about a situation as well as their organization's capability of dealing with it." It questions most broadly and forcefully specific aspects of the traditions of the design, planning, and position schools and as such turns on their heads most of the basic assumptions and premises.

The Power School: Strategy Formation as a Process of Negotiation is the subject of discussion in the eight chapter and the authors explain that "the power school takes off the gloves altogether, and characterizes strategy formation as an overt process of influence, emphasizing the use of power and politics to negotiate strategies favorable to particular interests." It is important to note that the term "power" refers to the exercise of influence beyond the purely economic and therefore is very close to politics.

The Cultural School: Strategy Formation as a Collective Process is the reverse image of the power school. In the ninth chapter, the authors explain that "culture knits a collection of individuals into an integrated entity called organization." It focuses on common interest and "concerns itself largely with the influence of culture in maintaining strategic stability, indeed sometimes in actively resisting strategic change."

The tenth chapter discusses The Environmental School: Strategy Formation as a Reactive Process. Unlike the other schools, the environmental school sees the set of forces outside the organization as `the' actor. "This reduces strategy making to a kind of mirroring process" and the authors believe that this school merits a detour on the strategy safari. It positions environment alongside leadership and organization as one of the three central forces in the process.

The message of The Configuration School: Strategy Formation as a Process of Transformation is "all of the above." In the eleventh chapter the authors explain that this school "differs from all the others in one fundamental respect: it offers the possibility of reconciliation, one way to integrate the messages of the other schools." It is important to note that there two sides to this school. One describes states as configurations, whilst the other describes the strategy-making process as transformation.

The twelfth and final chapter starts with a review of the various attributes of the schools of thought discussed and can be seen as a summary of the material of the chapter 2 to 11. The authors then attempt to address the various issues that cut across the whole field of strategic management. Finally, they discuss some ways in which glimpses of the strategy-formation beast might be caught. "There has been at least one consistent ambiguity throughout this book: whether these schools describe different processes or different parts of the same process." The main concluding message from the authors is that "we have to get beyond the narrowness of each school" and that, although we shall never find the whole strategy-formation beast, we should be able to see it better by going beyond this narrowness.

Yes, I do like this book. The book is ideally suited to serve as the textbook for the strategic management-elective in MBA-courses. The authors introduce two ways to look at strategy-making: the first is through identification of the various approaches to strategy formation and the second is by placing the schools of thought within the single process that is strategy formation. Each of the chapter provides a good introduction including a decent literature review, a discussion of recent developments, a critique of the individual school of thought, and a concluding paragraph. The final chapter summarizes all these schools in useful tables and figures. Although I believe that the book deserves a little update by the authors (published in 1998, reason for 4 stars), it is the best textbook that I have come across on this subject. Therefore highly recommend to MBA-students
