This is an enchanting biography of the most important and charismatic figure in Russian history.  Its virtues abound; it is deeply researched, it is well-written, it is balanced, and it does an excellent job of placing Peter into the context of his times.  While it's not a classic scholar's history, chock-a-block with footnotes and citations to other literature, in the 25+ years since it was originally issued, there have been no serious criticisms of Massie's broad themes.

Make no mistake: this is a definitive biography.  We travel the full length of Peter's life, from his earliest education and his days playing at soldier, past the intrigue over his accession to the throne, to his days as mature and sole autocrat. The development of Peter's personality is shown artfully. We see Peter's development from a curious, bright and energetic youth, to a young and not wholly serious sovereign, and, over the course of the Great Northern War, to a leader of his nation who becomes aware of his role and its burdens.

Massie shows all sides of Peter; this is not fawning hagiography.  Peter's virutes, his generosity, his energy, his intellectual curiousity, his personal loyalty, his desire to build his nation, his zest for manual labor, his lack of personal pretentiousness, are matched by his weaknesses, his irascibility, his wild carousing, his ruthlessness and his savagery. 

To tell the story of Peter's life is also to tell the story  of Russia in the late 17th and early 18th centuries, and Massie helps readers who are not historians understand the world in which Peter lived.  He achieves this by providing mini-portraits of many of the other world leaders with whom Peter interacted, such as George I of Hanover and England, Louis XIV and his successors, Charles XII of Sweden and literally dozens of others. Beyond mere character sketches, Massie also provides social, military and economic background to the events that affect these other nation states and Russia.

The central struggle that defined Peter's reign was the long war against Sweden and its allies. Because that war was long, and in the manner of European conflicts of that era, constantly marked by shifting alliances among the combatants and allies, the history of that war takes up the largest chunk of the book.  So we get detailed descriptions of the major battles, but also the diplomatic counterpoints, how Peter and his court sought to assemble allies and break down Sweden's alliances.  And from an historian's perspective, it is entirely fitting that the Great Northern War form the centerpiece of his biography.  The war dominated Peter's adult life and the eventual Russian victory dethroned Swedish dominance in the Baltic region and established Russia as a major European power. Some readers may be put off by the level of detail regarding the military campaigns, but I would say this is an example of what makes the book so valuable, its incredible depth.

But Massie does not ignore the social changes that Peter brought to Russia.  There are chapters on the overhaul of the Orthodox church that Peter imposed, on the reform of the bureacracy (and the creation of the later infamous table of ranks), the spread of education and the westernization of Russian society.  Massie also discusses in detail the founding and subsequent rise of St. Petersburg, which, along with the founding of the Russian Navy, may have been Peter's greatest legacy to the Russian people.

Some reviewers have complained about the length; for all the reasons I have outlined above, I found the depth of Massie's work a huge plus, and not a hindrance.  And because the book is so well written, I didn't bog down reading it at all.  I think Massie's Peter well rewards the time spent reading it.

