I had never read any of Dr. Schlessinger's books until about a month ago when I read her book "The Proper Care and Feeding of Husbands". It was a magnificent read and prompted me to pick up this one, 10 STUPID THINGS COUPLES DO TO MESS UP THEIR RELATIONSHIPS. The problem is, I should have read this book first, and here is why; Proper Care was such a masterpiece that I expected as much from this one, and though it is a wonderful dissertation and full of valuable advice, it doesn't come close to being in the same category as Proper Care. Had I read this book first, my expectations would not have been as high and I probably would have rated this one higher. 

With this book, you get much of the same valuable perspectives on marriage, but this one is rather discombobulated in its' outlay and at times does not seem to fit the intended structure. There is also considerably more content devoted here to listener comments than from the Doctor herself, making this more of a compilation of letters, emails and interviews and less of a seasoned and highly competent professional lending her expertise on the subject matter. 

Couples and individuals alike will certainly garner critical information on selecting the right individual for a mate. However, if you have an expectation of finding marriage building type information here, you might also be disappointed as this is geared more towards how not to mess up a relationship than it is toward building one. As with Proper Care, you will glean bits and pieces of profound information here that will certainly make you think about your relationship and yourself as a part of that relationship. 

Overall, this is a good book, well worth reading. My only recommendation is, if you are new to Dr. Laura and seeking to strengthen your marriage, read this book before you read Proper Care. Though Proper Care is focused more on a female audience and this one is for either gender, you will have more an appreciation for this book if you read it first.

Pastor Monty Raine
