Have you ever wanted to see a Pulitzer Prize-winning author sitting on the pot? Well, here's your chance with Dave Barry's book, Dave Barry Is Not Taking This Sitting Down! While the cover shot may have visions of the scatological Farrelly Brothers doing the can-can in your head, you can put a lid on that: Barry's humor is irreverent, yes, but it is tidy-bowl clean. 

Although I appreciate a good laugh as much as anyone, I have a rather serious countenance. I'm the kind of person that total strangers come up to and command, "Smile!" Another oft-posed question is, "Why aren't you smiling?" Like I'm supposed to be standing in line at the Post Office or the DMV grinning like an idiot. One possible solution could be Dave Barry Is Not Taking This Sitting Down! This book did have me smiling a lot, chuckling, and even - lo and behold! - laughing out loud. (This gets an entirely different reaction while standing in line at the Post Office or the DMV... It has fellow line-loungers casting furtive glances at the "wanted" posters on the walls.) 

Dave Barry Is Not Taking This Sitting Down! is a collection of the humorist's previously published columns. Barry has been with The Miami Herald for nearly 20 years now, and his commentary has been syndicated all over the planet - in case you are wondering (as was I), he received the Pulitzer Prize for commentary in 1988. According to his bio, "Barry writes about various major issues relating to the international economy, the future of democracy, the social infrastructure and exploding toilets." 

I have read several of Barry's books before, and while I prefer the ones on a theme (Dave Barry Does Japan is my personal fave), the compilations are fun too, because I'm always bound to find a little something that tickles me. The only complaint I have about these compilations, and this one in particular, are when timely themes are included. They "date" the book, and even though it's brand new, it seems old in some places (one I can recall offhand is mention of the impending Y2K problem that never materialized).

There were quite a few bits and pieces that struck a personal chord with me. As the driver of a little sports job, I was howling with laughter at Barry's rant on SUV drivers:

"...What people mainly do with Sports Utility Vehicles, as far as I can tell, is try to maneuver them in and out of parking spaces. I base this statement on my local supermarket, where many of the upscale patrons drive Chevrolet Subdivisions. I've noticed that these people often purchase just a couple of items - maybe a bottle of diet water and a two-ounce package of low-fat dried carrot shreds - which they put into the back of their Subdivisions, which have approximately the same cargo capacity, in cubic feet, as Finland... Then comes the scary part: getting out of the parking space... I drive a compact car, and on a number of occasions have found myself trapped behind a Subdivision backing directly toward me, its massive metal butt looming high over my head, making me feel like a Tokyo pedestrian looking up at Godzilla. I've tried honking my horn, but (they) can't hear me, because they're always talking on phones the size of Chiclets (The Bigger Your Car, The Smaller Your Phone, that is their motto)."

And forget Mars and Venus - Barry knows guys better than Gray could ever hope to. He has a reoccurring report in his column on Stuff That Guys Do, and a couple of them are presented here in the chapters Rubber-Band Man ("...Guys like to do stuff. This explains both the Space Shuttle and mailbox vandalism."), and Rock of Ages ("At some point or another, almost every guy wants an electric guitar. Electric guitars exert a strong appeal for guys, because they combine two critical elements: 1. guitar, 2. electricity.")

This is the sort of book that you'll want to read passages from, aloud, to anyone within earshot whether they like it or not. Barry has something to say about everything from the government's spending habits to the climate in Florida. Even if you're not especially interested in the government's spending habits or the climate in Florida, I bet you'll get a snicker or two from Dave Barry Is Not Taking This Sitting Down! You really can't go wrong with this book.

Let's just say Dave Barry is the American Standard of humorists working today. He goes to the head of the class. He's a damn sight funnier than Harry Potter. And as I mentioned previously, Barry's humor is clean: With the holidays coming up, you can safely buy this book for all the Janes and Johns on your list. (Okay, even I'm flushed with embarrassment now...)
