Eugene O'Neill saw success as an author during his lifetime.  O'Neill was awarded three Pulitzer Prizes between 1920-1925.  However, O'Neill's final and poignant piece Long Day's Journey into Night was first published in 1956-three years following his death.  O'Neill requested that Long Day's Journey into Night be published twenty-five years following his death, due to its autobiographical nature, but his wife, Carlotta, never followed his request.  Long Day's Journey into Night earned O'Neill his fourth Pulitzer Prize in 1957 posthumously.

Long Day's Journey into Night is organized into four acts-morning, afternoon, evening, and night of a pivotal and difficult day for the Tyrone family.  The characters Mary, James, Jamie and Edmund are seen as a typical family: loving and supportive, but also separate and unique.  However, as the day progresses, O'Neill continuously alludes to severe problems within the family unit including drug addiction, depression, alcoholism, and a serious infectious disease, with increasing detail.  

Throughout the entirety of Long Day's Journey into Night the characters would further explain a past problem, through coded speech.  For the Tyrone family, the past is never to be spoken of, but is always hanging around the next corner.  

I found that O'Neill's talent is shown through his ability to portray the complexities and the sensitive nature of his characters through their interactions.  He is able to contrasts the powerful love they feel for one another with the unique bitter resentment they feel as a result of their difficult, emotionally draining lives.  The ending of Long Day's Journey into Night ends with each character emotionally drained by the other members of the Tyrone family.  Long Day's Journey into Night shows the Tyrone family continuously snapping at one another, making hurtful remarks and then recognizing the pain they have inflicted upon their love one, trying to lovingly make reparations.  The interactions of the Tyrone family, remind me of a typical American/Canadian family.

While O'Neill's Long Day's Journey into Night is a play to be witnessed through performance, O'Neill's eloquent writing style and knowledge of the stage allows the reader to create a picturesque portrait of the Tyrone family.  While Long Day's Journey into Night is a purely honest recount of how the O'Neill family interacted with one another; it can be emotionally draining to read, due to the character's frequent emotional roller coaster.  Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey into Night offers its readers a better understanding of their own personal family life.
