This is an excellent story about real people who have real struggles and yet, through it all, are seeking God and His will. Francois is a modern day Jacob who wrestles with God and refuses to give in until God blesses him. All the people in this story disappoint at one time or another. However, that serves to illustrate God's love and faithfulness all the more. It is a true example of Romans 8:28 - All things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.

Because the book is a compilation of private letters, there is a real sense of the pain and struggle that Francois is going through, and of the sympathy and compassion of Pastor Trobisch. One can easily relate to the characters.

As one aspiring to become a pastor this book was incredibly helpful, the compassion that Pastor Trobisch shows toward Francois while at the same time being firm and clearly and convincingly discussing Biblical principles regarding sex, love, and marriage, is truly moving. It was an excellent example of how to counsel someone who is truly struggling and seeking God.

And as a young man myself, it was helpful to see I have a brother who struggles with love, hope, and disappointment. The words Pastor Trobisch writes to Francois were very helpful and encouraging to me as well.

Some secondary issues: Because Francois is a young African man, the problems he faces, and the interaction between him and Pastor Trobisch - a European missionary - has an added color which both makes the story interesting and demonstrates the difficultly of trying to balance Biblical principles, and respecting cultural traditions. Furthermore, Francois, despite being spiritually immature in many issues demonstrates a remarkable understanding for the importance of the Lord's Supper which is lacking in most Western evangelical churches. Also, church discipline comes up a number of times and demonstrates the human tendency to be a pendulum. The African churches misuse church disciple, using it to punish instead of draw people to repentance (I Cor. 5). At the same time, it is obvious that the Western church has neglected the use of church discipline out of fear of misusing it. It should be noted that although the African church was too strict and unforgiving, Francois would not have been driven to write to Pastor Trobisch if he had not be disciplined. By neglecting church discipline churches damage their members instead of showing them grace and mercy.

This is an excellent book, and, although not without its faults, certainly worth the money and time. I strongly recommend it
