I read this after "The Book of Evidence" had introduced Freddie Montgomery, in this sequel of sorts out of prison and under an assumed name continuing his forays into the art world's underworld. Descriptions of various paintings he analyzes in the style--at least in the first few--of a catalogue raisonne make for a challenge, as it forces you as the reader to imagine what FM conjures up by words from what he only sees as art. It makes for a great distancing effect, one that another novelist might have undercut if he had insisted upon including (cf. W.G. Sebald's entries of prose, postcard, photo within his similarly undefinable free-floating books of associations--the comparison is not meant to criticize Sebald) reproductions themselves. 

This book's less witty, and brims less with black humor, than "The Book of Evidence." Reading it for the erotic bits would be akin to picking up Joyce's "Ulysses" or Beckett's prose for their sexual scenes. Like his Irish predecessors, Banville chooses to focus not on the act so much as the desire, and this makes for more elusive, if more realistic--a word not otherwise applicable to this mise-en-scene--sensation. You do hang suspended in the introspective, self-absorbed, obsessively ruminating realm that Freddie creates. Perhaps only the philosophically or aesthetically rarified few readers will persevere. Still, Booker Prize winner that Banville now is, perhaps more will make the effort to explore his past fictional landscapes of devotion and desolation. 

The ending, as with many of Banville's novels since the 1990s, gives a twist, here only in the very last pages. It did surprise me a bit, but not that much, for Banville's narrator throughout's a slippery character among many just--if not more--as chameleonish. This does make for some imprecision that weakens slightly the storyline in its final resolution. This shape-shifting milieu I wished had been clarified a bit more than it is, and the welcome reappearance of Inspector Hackett is not as sustained as this character deserves. Yet on the whole, readers of Banville will be satisfied again by this installment. His character of Aunt Corky, in her slow decay, is as funny and as harrowing a figure as he has ever attempted to sketch out and then fill in on these pages. 

As I have in my other responses via Amazon to Banville's books, I want to include a couple of my favorite snippets to show you his command of what he evokes in his spare but detailed style. First, as he delves into "this Bermuda Triangle of the soul," he addresses his appeal to A., the recipient of this book-length outpouring of longing. Freddie's extended letter of love and loss and lust, who represents the "ineffable mystery of the Other (I can hear your ribald snigger); that is what I have plunged into again as into a choked Sargasso Sea wherein I can never find my depth. In you I thought my feet at last would reach the sandy floor where I could wade weightlessly with bubbles kissing my shins and small things skittering under my slow-motion tread. Now it seems I was wrong, wrong again." (47)

Later as he recalls his embraces of A., now speaking to her as in the third person: "devouring her slowly, minutely, as in an enraptured cannibalism of the senses. How palely delicate she was. She glimmered. Her skin had a grainy, thick texture that at times, when she was out of sorts, or menstrual, I found excitingly unpleasant to the touch. Yes, it was always there, behind all the transports and the adoration, that faint, acrid, atavistic hint of disgust, waiting, and reminding. This I am convinced is what sex is, the anaesthetic that makes bearable the flesh of another. And we erect cathedrals upon it." (121)

Certainly the polarities of attraction and repulsion have been diagrammed in so many books for so many millennia, but here once more I believe Banville shows his skill in making such magnetism and rejection fresh and as powerful as they have been expressed in Joyce or--here especially--Beckett.
