I picked up a copy of Goldberg's book on a discount shelf in a very liberal city while I was out and about.  I had never heard of him but found it amusing that he was on that very shelf in that very town.  Ironically, I heard an interview with him on the radio that very day on my return home.  I was then certainly ready to read his book because he stressed in that interview that he was writing to point out the problems where they existed, not with a biased anti-liberal finger.  After reading Bias, I was truly sure of that, given his own candid observations.

Goldberg hints to his personal liberalism throughout the book.  It is from this view that he launches his exposition of the bias in the media.  What he finds truly insidious is the fact that the major media outlets will not even admit that they are biased.  They remain solidly behind their ideals as the, not acknowledging that they are liberal so much as they are correct.  This is precisely what perturbed Goldberg.

Additionally, the author approaches the fact that the media often pushes agendas without even realizing it.  Facts get distorted based on whoever the current president is.  Stories get covered because of their relation to bigger agendas.  Hate speech is decried in one place but allowed in other places.  All of this is done, and the media is not willing (and often not even able) to admit it.

The weakness of Bias is the fact that it relies heavily on anecdotes and doesn't go much deeper than that.  The analysis is relatively shallow and could have much greater of an impact if Goldberg had presented a more unified thesis on the unacknowledged bias in the media.

Overall, I think that this is a timely book that should be read by all.  Goldberg is strong in that he is not on a hunt against the media as a whole but only wants to open the doors for the possibility of dialogue on the issue of bias in general, although it is particularly directed toward the often-unknown hidden liberal bias of main-stream media
