
Michael Medved is a great man.  He almost gets it right in this
book, but he doesn't go quite far enough.  He is far too easy
on the liberals who took over the entertainment industry and 
have used it ever since as a weapon against normal america.

There is no question that the american entertainment industry
(film and television) is out to destroy, religion, the family,
patrotism, trust in our leaders and support for our troops.  
While at the same time, the industry promotes socialism, crime,
secular humanism, sexual deveintism and drug use.

There is also no question about the number of people that the
film industry has destroyed.  Medved is very good at chronicaling
the destroyed lives they have caused.  And how they turned the
country against our troops during the vietnam war.  He is also
good at showing cause and effect.  Liberals teach children to
have sex which causes them to get pregenant which the liberals
then solve by getting them to murder babies.  Those involved are
so tramatized by the experience that they fall into the trap
of illegal drugs prepared for them by the liberals.  Its all 
part of one larger effort to destroy america.

Medved misunderstand how this situation came to be.  He misses
how criminal gangs (so-called labour unions) run by communists
used violence to intimidate the hollywood studios into hiring
degenerate criminals and firing anyone with morality who stood
in their way.  Louis Mayer made good family films at MGM that
were very popular.  Yet he was fired at the peak of his 
popularity and MGM started to turn out endless hate america
movies by communists like Stanley Kramer.  Popular stars were
let go and replaced with moral degenerates and drug addicts.
Great moral epics like the Sands of Iwo Jima and Hondo were
replaced by films about drug dealers or bikers or human rats
infesting our cities.

This was not done for profit.  The movies long ago lost their
mass audience and it didn't bother these people a bit.  They
need only to reach people one or twice over a few years to
spread the disease of communist ideas.

Michael Medved also doesn't go far enough in seeking a cure
to the problem.  I think the start is for communities to stop
putting up with immorality.  We need laws and judges that will
shut those making obsene works down.  Where we should start is
by reforming the academy awards.  Membership in the acadamy
should require good moral character and love of America and
freedom.  The Academy also needs to start to look like America.
It wasn't America that gave the top award last year to a film
about sending poor women out to fight for the amusement of 
others and then murdering her because she was sick.  The people
who cast those votes need to be sent to france or somewhere else 
outside america.

Medved has always been on the side of right.  No better example
can be seen than in how he treated "the last temptation" and
"the passion".  In the case of "the last temptation", all 
hollywood was cheering for anti-christian hate film that nobody
wanted to see anyway.  Then in the case of "the passion" all
the same hollywood liberals were angry and disguested that
such a film could be made or released.  Medved was on the
side of right in both cases against the liberals.

The side of good is winning back America and the day will come
when the criminals are brought to justice.  A day when we will
have entertainment for America again rather than filth and
disease for a handful of liberals.  First it was the presidency
and the congress, next it will be the courts, after that comes
education and entertainment.  America will be redeemed and
its institutions will begin to serve it again rather than a
bunch of weak liberal intellectuals.

