"How Europe Underdeveloped Africa" is among the most insightful analysis of the reasons behind the underdevelopment of the African continent. The book, published in 1972, was written in a Marxist context. The author demonstrates exceptional analytical depth and critical research into how European colonialism and capitalism were a double edged sword in creating deep rooted underdevelopment of the continent which has been very difficult to uproot.

Since the book was published, a lot has happened in the world which would appear to expose some flaws in the book, particularly his views that socialism or Marxism are the correct vehicle for the development of the African continent. However, the Marxist philosophy is now almost completely discredited. The few states worldwide that still practice unadulterated Marxism are impoverished pariah States tottering on the brink of collapse weighed down by the irrelevance of the Marxist dogma (they are indeed slaves of a dead philosopher). However, this hardly diminishes the legacy and impact of this great and famous writer in his exceptional exposure of how Europe underdeveloped Africa. His basic message of the need for the generality of the African peoples to enjoy the vast resources of the continent is still a cherished dream.

The profound underdevelopment of the continent highlighted by Rodney is still with us today, although the blame for this should now be shifted to African leaders. In fact, the legacy of colonialism has been the rise of some political leaders who mimic the colonial masters in their ruthless exploitation and subjugation of their people and their grotesque excesses. The various territorial conflicts on the continent are largely the result of the creation of the artificial borders during the partition of Africa, with no regard to the cultural affinities of the indigenous populations. The brain drain that started with slavery 400-500 years ago continues unabated to this day, with most of Africa's brains working outside the continent.

Because of his principled stand for the downtrodden Africans in Africa and the diaspora, Walter Rodney was assassinated in 1980 in his native country Guyana. However, his legacy and thinking will never die. The book is a must read for people who seek a just and equitable world order and those who wish to understand the history of Africa.

