Upstate New York is a territory well-explored by Oates, and in FOXFIRE:  CONFESSIONS OF A GIRL GANG, she again triumphs in creating another highly original, compelling story about the working class section of the state.  In FOXFIRE, she tells the story of a group of teenage girls growing up during the 1950s.  There are five to begin with:  Legs Sadovsky, enigmatic founder and leader of the gang, and Maddy "Monkey" Wirtz, the gang's official recorder, among them.  They start out merely as a group of young women rebelling against authority, vandalizing property and going for joyrides in stolen cars.  But gradually, as their gang grows in numbers, the girls are driven to further acts of violence; it seems to almost become an obsession for them, and it isn't long before they're in over their heads.  Events follow that will force the girls to face the consequences of their actions--actions that will end Foxfire, their beloved girl gang, forever.  

At the center of this cumpulsively readable story is Maddy, Oates' narrator, who has unearthed her old Foxfire notebooks years after the end of the gang.  Maddy tells the story of the young women who shaped her teenage years feverishly, passionately, as if the story of Foxfire is one that she has no choice but to tell.  Her narrative is fluid, fragmented, and rushed, told in a distinctive voice--a voice illuminated by Maddy's lost youth, a voice desperately in love with Maddy's lost Foxfire.  Maddy's compelling narrative also nakedly reveals the character of Legs Sadovsky, Foxfire's indestructible and bold leader, a girl who, underneath layers of bravado, is just as lost as the girls she claims to protect.

The more JCO I read, the more convinced I become that she's a genius.  Using highly original stories and characters, Oates deconstructs big issues in her narratives.  In FOXFIRE, she touches on themes of power, social status, sexuality, and oppression--and she does it in a highly entertaining, haunting, flawless, unforgettable narrative.  FOXFIRE is a sexy story about the bonds of sisterhood and the politics of fear that leaves the reader with plenty to ponder, and in this novel, Oates is at her finest
