C. Wright Mills' landmark book from 1956 posits that the major decisions in America are made by a unified "power elite" rather a multiplicity of competing groups or citizens. The "power elite" are the top leaders of the major economic, political, and military organizations - the President & cabinet, senators, top lawyers, CEOs, business moguls, bankers & financiers, admirals, and so on.  They tend to share a common outlook, privileged upbringing, and similar values. They also tend to be conservative, practical men with good judgment, rather than men of ideas. 

These leaders move move easily between society's top command posts as economics, politics and the militiary become more interdependent. For example, Charles Wilson, president of General Motors, famously said, "What's good for the country is good for General Motors, and vice versa," He eventually became the secretary of the Department of Defense. It's this kind of mobility, along with the shared outlook of leaders in top posts, that creates a single-minded military-industrial-political complex -- not some kind of intentional conspiracy.

The masses, in Mills' view, have little power and influence over decision-making.  They are passive spectators who take little independent action to directly influence policies, beyond voting occasionally. Furthermore, the elites can influence and manipulate the masses through public relations, propaganda, and irrational appeals via the mass media. 

Overall, this book was clearly argued and well written. Then, as now, its thesis chafes against the spirit of egalitarianism, pluralism and democracy in America. Also, some might go on to argue that since this book was published in 1956, things have changed -- consider the civil rights movement or ERA, both of which weren't initiated by the elites. Yet parts of Mill's analysis have stood the test of time. Presidents and Senators still tend to be much richer than the average American. Corporate CEOs and Generals move into and out of government (consider Dick Cheney, Colin Powel).  Citizens & workers don't get to vote directly on whether to invade a country, or to close a factory. 

Mills' book is certainly a famous one that every sociologist (armchair or otherwise) should read. So if you're interested in the structure of power in America, this book should be on your reading list.
