Politics Among Nations, is articulated, well organized and integrated with numerous crucial elements of politics. The systematic presentation of the definition of national power, the limitations of national power and the ways to peace not only illustrates the historical development and the trend of international politics, but also brings some insights to the reader.

I would like to draw your attention to Morgenthau's "nationalistic universalism", he believes that "...the nationalistic universalism of our age claims for one nation and one state the right to impose its own valuations and standards of action upon all the other nations"(p.273). Indeed, Morgenthau not only explains the ideological conflict between two superpowers during the Cold War, but he also foresees the motives of American foreign policy nowadays. Last but not least, Morgenthau successfully predicts that a united Western Europe (European Union) will be formed in order to strengthen its power in resisting the nationalistic universalism from the other states; the united Western Europe will expand its influence to others too (civilian power or soft power).

Classical realism is very useful to explain the motives and actions of various powers, however, it cannot be fully applied to the cases of middle power, small power or the potential great power. For example, realist's balance of power fails to explain the state, who is not a member in the alliance system, not a buffer state, and not the balancer. However, the role of this kind of state is indispensable in balance of power, because of her certain influence on other states. India is the best example to illustrate the above argument.

Potential great power such as India has addressed the importance of multipolarity. After the Second World War, India adopted the non-alignment policy. On one hand, India did not want to line up with the Soviet Union. On the other hand, India surely wanted to lay down her regional power status by resisting the American influence. The role of India in the balance of power is vague in the above situation. Although India was totally no match with the two superpowers, India still found an important role by extending her influence among the developing countries. In this case, potential great power searches all the ways to become or create one of the blocs within the system, but this power is hardly to upset the existing balancing order. Thus, I suggest if you are interested in studying the role of state, especially from the structural perspective, you may read the following book.

Kenneth Waltz's structural / defensive realism, Theory of International Politics.
