I have two rules I try to follow in huge fantasy series.

1.	When reading the first volume, don't put the book down in absolute bored disgust `til page 200.
2.	Don't decide you're a fan of a series `til you've read the first two volumes.

I finished Prince of Dogs in 1.5 days.  I can now say that I am a Kate Elliott fan because, as most of you know, Prince of Dogs is the second book in the Crown of Stars series, and I loved it.

Prince Sanglant is once again the influence for the book's title, though, some can argue that Alaine can also be a sort of "Prince of Dogs" as well.  At any rate, Sanglant has been captured by the Eika king Bloodheart.  Bloodheart keeps Sanglant chained with a pack of fearsome dogs to an altar close to his throne.  Everyone thinks Sanglant is dead.  No one save Sanglant seems to remember the magical aegis his mother set upon him.  The Dogs torment and protect Sanglant, and, ultimately, change Sanglant forever.

Most of the kingdom morns Sanglant's loss, but none more despairingly than King Henry and Liath.  Liath's				 sorrow makes her vulnerable, and, if it can be possible, more fearful than in King's Dragon.  I do admit to getting a little frustrated with Liath, but, at the same time, I appreciated what the author did with her.  Fear is a part of Liath's character, and, as much as we want our fantasy characters to grow, there are just some things people can't get passed.  I've grown a lot in my life, but I'm still afraid of large crowds.

Hugh returns in this book.  Both he and Liath spend most of their time in the King's progress.  Liath's interactions with Hugh, while frustrating, have a ring of realism to them.  I like how Kate Elliott obviously is all for women empowerment, but also isn't afraid to sometimes portray her female characters in a negative, and occasionally sexist, light.

And as for Hugh, Hugh is a wonderfully complicated and complex villain.  In most fantasy books, the evil characters are irredeemably evil, crewel, and simple.  Hugh is certainly irredeemably evil and crewel, but he definitely isn't simple.  I think some authors forget that the devil has a honey tongue and a beautiful face; Kate Elliott makes no such mistake.

Alaine is tested by the Lady of Battles in this book.  What exactly Alaine's purpose is and why he has strange visions remains a mystery, but we get more insight into why and how he can change the world around him.  Alaine is an excellent character.  He sees the harsh world around him and reacts to it in such an innocent way.  I wouldn't call Alaine ignorant, though.  He has an interesting strength and wisdom about him.  Kate Elliott knows how to make faceted fascinating characters.

The number of characters and PoVs doesn't bother me.  I'm a veteran of several huge and complicated series.  A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin has over 1,000 characters in four books, and The Wheel of Time has over 1,700 over eleven.  And that's just to name the two most popular series out there.  Crown of Stars probably has over 1,000 characters, but it also has an incredibly intricate story.  I do think some of the threads are difficult to keep track of, but this is my first read through.  I don't expect to pick up everything the first time around.

The religious aspect of Crown of Stars is unforgivingly relentless.  I like how Kate Elliott's world mirrors our middle ages in nearly every way.  Our own past was directed by religion and blind faith, Crown of Stars is no different.  In our day, people don't like reading, learning, understanding, respecting religion, but it's a necessity if you ever want to understand literature and our past.  Most readers put down this series because it, quite frankly, is about religion, but I think setting aside a good story because it goes against a modern paradigm is a serious mistake.

The prose can be repetitive and choppy, but it's worth ignoring for the story.

I give this book 4 out of five.
