Hemingway invented a terse style using King James biblical cadences with an awful lot of and's and very few commas in his rhythmic sentences.  Certainly no semicolons, God forbid.  The shorter the word, the better.  The more ordinary, the more often in common usage, the better--but sprinkled here and there we find a highbrow word thrown in as if for spice.  In The Old Man and the Sea, which is a short story posing as a novel, Hemingway offers an example of the Sisyphean heroic tale.

Each day for eternity Sisyphus rolls a heavy ball up a hill and at the end of each day the ball comes rolling down again.  Albert Camus famously said that one imagines that Sisyphus was happy.  The old man of Hemingway's story embodies the karma of the Sisyphean hero in that most days throughout his long life he has gone to the ocean to fish.  And each day he comes home, and then the next day he goes out again.  The forces he is up against, the sea itself, the leviathan monsters of the deep, the unpredictable weather, the seasons of dearth and plenty in unpredictable fashion--all of these things and more, including the wiles of women who are influenced by the moon, all of these things are like the ball and the force of gravity that Sisyphus labors against.

And for what?  And to what avail?  It is the struggle itself that is the glory and the purpose and the reason for being.  So saith Hemingway in the way he meticulously details the laborious struggle of man versus fish: of the old man, not as strong as he once was, not as full of the desire that once burned in his soul, not as keen in discernment or vision, yet still a man with a man's pride and a man's duty; and the primordial fish, the great marlin, powerful and beautiful, full of great dignity, smarting now, suffering now with a hook in its mouth.

Who will win?  Will the marlin break the line or will the crafty old man lead out just enough to keep him hooked, and then as the fish tires, slowly gain a little line, inch by inch?

Some great or seemingly great event may define a man's life.  Here it is the off chance of hooking an especially huge marlin, and with diminished strength, bring him in for all to see, that defines the old man's life.  It is good that it comes late when for most the highlight of life was long ago.  It is good that the effort nearly kills him, and it is especially good that there was much doubt about the outcome.

This is the heroic or machismo view of this celebrated novel.  Since this was first published in 1952 its reputation has waned, or not so much waned as become something seen from another direction.  Instead of the heroic old man and the gallant marlin we see a kind of anthropomorphic delusion in which a hook of steel and a large brain torture a huge, dim-witted creature to death.  Instead of an epic struggle we see one predator taking advantage of another.  Instead of heroism we see a kind of tedious Darwinian incident made into something akin to a Greek myth.

And so it is with Hemingway himself.  Now seen as incorrigibly sexist and as more of a stylist than a writer of substance, Hemingway is no longer revered in the English departments of our great universities.  Instead he is remembered for shooting defenseless animals in Africa and imagining that such activities made him a man.  Instead of being one of America's greatest writers, he is now recalled as a good short story writer whose stylish mannerisms eventually grate on our sensibilities.  From being a great artist he has fallen to being a minor one, from being a best selling writer, the literary lion of his time, Hemingway is now remember as the man who blew his brains out because, as he is quoted as saying (in anticipation of course), something like, "I could no longer make love good."  Too bad he lived before the age of Viagra.

Note the psychologically correct  use of the adjective "good" instead of the grammatically required but artificial adverb "well."  Hemingway, like Mark Twain, made a point of not being a slave to grammar. 

Regardless of the rise and fall of his reputation and even regardless of the lack of political correctness of his writings, it is nonetheless the case that The Old Man and the Sea is a striking piece of work, sentimental to a fault, simplistic in philosophy and even shopworn in theme, yet still it is a book that must be read if only to add to our understanding of the progression of popular American literature from James Fenimore Cooper to Mark Twain through James T. Farrell and John O'Hara to Larry McMurtry and Stephen King.

The Old Man and the Sea is in a sense a story best experienced young, which is one of the reasons it is on the high school curriculum.  It is striking and totally fulfilling the first time it is read.  Read it a second time and the mannerisms and the mock heroics begin to be discerned.  Read it a third time and it becomes tedious.  If read a fourth time the temptation is toward parody and burlesque
