Garry Wills is an excellent scholar and writer, with a wide range of interests.  His book What Jesus Meant is a great read, and he makes a herculean effort to break out of the mold of much recent scholarship, particularly the Jesus Seminar.  However in the end he succumbs to many of the same maladies he identifies in those he criticizes.

His forward on the nature of translation and the characteristics of KOINE greek does as good a job of illustrating the limitations of using the details of language to make theological points (i.e. the traditional conservative approach to original languages) as any I have ever read.  He also does a great job of placing himself within the tradition of the historical Jesus debate as one who accepts the record as it is recorded-the only Jesus we have is the Jesus of faith.  He finds all the attempts to identify "authentic" sayings of Jesus to leave us with a boring not very moving character.  He places great value on the portrait of Jesus found in Paul's letters because they were written earlier in the transmission process than the Gospels and are closer to the original bearers of the tradition.  I thought his discussion of the temptations of Jesus might have been the best thing in the book.  Absolutely brilliant. 

Wills does a great job of telling Jesus story.  He attempts to do a Jesus narrative based on a harmony of the Gospels based on his own translation and understanding.  It makes a great narrative.  He reminded me ofhow much we have lost by turning the gospel story into a collection of related pericopes.  His Jesus is no Jesus meek and mild, revealing a God of Looooooovvvvvve.  (mispelling intentional, sound it out and you get the message). He places himelf in the group that regards Jesus as an apocolyptic visionary.  He rejects every effort to try to turn Jesus into an ethical teacher.  He places him as concerned with the Kingdom of God which is only found outside the constraints of time and space as we know them. Ultimately however he locates the Kingdom's expression in the interior life of the believer found through the access to the Father that comes through Him.  

Ultimately, however, Wills paints himself in the same box he finds others in.   Because the ultimate source of expression is within the self, he discounts much of the ethical teaching he disagrees with (i.e. homosexuality).  Thus while fundamentalist of every stripe (left and right) are shown to be putting God in a box, I find Wills doing the same thing.   However, I have a suspicion this may be due to our human limits-if we can eliminate all those contridictions we might make ourselves god.

All in all an excellent book, with parts that are stone brilliant.  Highly recommend with slight reservation
