I don't know Mark Herrmann, but I feel his pain.  Every attorney over 40 will recognize him/herself in Mark's curmudgeonly advice to the next generation.  Hopefully, every attorney under 30 will take heed and follow unless they have a better mousetrap to offer (and those of us over 50 shouldn't doubt that they do!).  In the absence of that mousetrap, no young attorney could go wrong picking up this book and heeding the advice from a very successful (and funny!) lawyer in his, ahem, middle years; one who is generous enough to donate the proceeds from the sale of this book to the American Bar Association.  

That said, here are my favorite "bits."       

THE C:  Rule No. 10 from "How to Fail as an Associate" -- So long as it's clearly marked "DRAFT," no one will care if its incomprehensible

MY COMMENT:  Nor, may I add, spell-checked. A memorable moment in one of my own associate's short careers was this response to "why are there so many spelling errors in this?" "Because," the associate replied, "I knew you'd revise it anyway so why should I bother?"

THE C:  "What They Didn't Tell You in Law School" -- To be on the wire is life; the rest is waiting.

MY COMMENT:  And don't think this applies only to the law. One of America's finest poets, W.S. Merwin, passes along the following advice from one of his mentors, the great John Berryman:

he suggested I pray to the Muse
get down on my knees and pray
right there in the corner and he
said he meant it literally . . . .

I had hardly begun to read
I asked how can you ever be sure
that what you write is really
any good at all and he said you can't

you can't you can never be sure
you die without knowing
whether anything you wrote was any good
if you have to be sure don't write

W.S. Merwin, Berryman, from Flower & Hand 

THE C:  The Curmudgeon's Law Dictionary: Objection -- An attorney-client communication made during a deposition for the purpose of ensuring favorable testimony.

THE C:  Seven Hours Locked in a Room: Beginning lawyers also sometimes worry about how they will work with exhibits when taking depositions. This is the process. Mark. Identify. Authenticate. Then, ask whatever the heck you want. 

MY COMMENT:  And if you don't know how to authenticate a document, look it up! It's right there in the Evidence Code. Take a cheat sheet with the statutory language to the deposition with you. If you manage to properly authenticate all exhibits to a deposition, you'll be better than 99.9% of the lawyers taking pre-trial testimony every day of the week. If you also establish the business records exception to the hearsay rule, you might achieve associate heaven -- the partner in charge of your case will be so delighted with your work that he'll excuse you from spending four weeks in a storage shed in Plano, Texas, reviewing documents.

THE C:  The Curmudgeon Argues -- If the judge poses a question to you, there's one rule: Answer it. Answer it directly, in a single word, if possible. "yes" or "no" are fine candidates.

MY COMMENT:  In the old days, when they used to let associates do scary things like argue appeals, one of three appellate judges leaned over the bench with a look you'll eventually come to recognize -- he's about to pull your intestines out through your throat. 

"Ms. Pynchon," he said, much too sweetly, perhaps sensing the truth -- I was a first year associate and this was my first appellate argument -- "doesn't your argument require us to split a cause of action?" 

SPLIT A CAUSE OF ACTION??? I'd never heard of such a thing in my entire life. My civil procedure professor had never mentioned it and the term appeared in neither party's briefs. SPLIT A CAUSE OF ACTION??? OMIGOD. I felt nauseated; faint, even; the room actually began to grow dark around the Judge's (now sinister) face.  

Then I recalled something my boss told me just a few weeks earlier. "If you don't know the answer to the question, don't 'wing' it and for god's sake don't avoid it. Admit you don't know the answer and offer to brief the issue. When the Court asks questions, it's not testing you; it really needs to know. You do the entire panel a favor by offering to file a post-argument brief."

So that's what I did.  I said, "I'm sorry; I don't know the answer. I'd be happy to brief it for you." I watched a cloud of disappointment cross the old Judge's face. I'm certain I ruined his moment, if not his entire day, by not properly playing my role -- young, dumb and female. I hadn't dodged, shifted or weaved. Most importantly, I no longer felt nauseated or faint. I won that appeal, but could just as easily have lost. I assure you, I'll never forget the lesson learned nor what it means to split a cause of action.

THE C:  How to Enter Time So Clients Will Pay It -- Record your time promptly. 

MY COMMENT:  Anything else is just suffering. The second best thing about being a mediator is no time keeping. Why do we hate it so much? I don't know. But I do know that I've spent agonized hours trying to reconstruct a day during which I know I worked non-stop for at least ten hours but could only recall two that were billable.  Don't do it. Don't put it off. Do it, in fact, now. Why are you reading this blog when you should be billing your time??????

