Chieh Chieng's "A Long Stay in a Distant Land" is written with a structure  reminiscent of Faye Myenne Ng's "Bone", jumping between acts or scenes scattered over many years, but it doesn't have the same narrative flow, the sense of inevitability as Ng's teller decides what more needs to be said at each point, peeling away layers of incident and family history, circling in on the central event of her sister's suicide.  Though the chapters here are all related as part of the Lum family story, they are almost independent short stories, vignettes or even sidebars,  without a similar central organizing question.  

Formally, the main character is young Louis Lum, and the book revolves around two problems in the "now", 2002.  Louis's mother Mirla recently died in an accident caused by a sleepy driver, whom his father Sonny is threatening to kill, so Louis moves in with Sonny to prevent his doing something foolish.  Also, Sonny's brother Uncle Bo moved to Hong Kong years ago and married there, but after his wife died Bo, never a great communicator, dropped totally out of touch, refusing contact; halfway through the book, Louis volunteers to go to HK and look for Bo.  

Scattered in among these threads, and at times overwhelming them, we are given snapshots of family history going back to the courting and marriage of Louis's's grandparents, Melvin Lum (long dead) and Esther, now the family matriarch.  Melvin's decision, much to the dismay of his family and new bride, to enlist in the army in WWII not only forms a chapter, but is part of the family gestalt.   

"Long Stay" is written with humor and a cast of quirky, quietly bizarre characters.  Louis is convinced that a personalized Death is stalking his family, unleashing a string of unexpected deaths (listed on page 20) as revenge for the "steel rain of death" Melvin himself had unleashed during the war.  Sonny is an ardent fan of gangsta rap, and a man of "unclear livelihood."  

The writing is fun, but overly clever and self-conscious, striving too hard for effect.  E.g., "That night, Louis dreamed of Jesus in the corporeal form of Max von Sydow standing in one corner of a boxing ring. ...  The Son of Man unleashed a spin kick that landed square on the left side of Death's face...."  It's a little too obvious that Chieng "graduated from a creative writing program" (UC Irvine) as the bio says.  

Still, in all, it's an excellent freshman effort, and Chieng is an author worth watching. 
