I will admit that I bought this book for the title alone ~~ So Many Books, So Little Time. And that is the truth. I never realized that it was a memoir because when I bought it, I was not going through any nonfiction phase at all. Now that I am, and this book hits home. Finally, there is someone else out there that haven't read McCullough's classic, "John Adams" ~~ which has been on my TBR pile since last summer when I pilfered it from my father's bookcases.

Nelson writes with wit, humor and depth as she tells her goal of reading 52 books a year, one for each week. While she didn't tell the reader much about the books she did read, she did share a lot of funny and entertaining thoughts about different books, the authors, the publishing world and life itself. She writes on how sometimes the book just pick her and how sometimes, she can't even finish a book. She raves about her favorite and she's very polite when she doesn't like something. She shares a lot of insight with the reader and while it wasn't what I expected, it was definitely a good read ~~ a fast read too as I couldn't wait to see what else she would write. 

She claims to be a reader that doesn't like to read the top bestseller fiction and even takes books along with her on vacations to impress other people. At least she's honest. Thanks to her, I now have more titles to look for when I go rummaging through garage sales and rummage sales. 

It is a fun read ~~ and one that every serious (meaning like her, you have four different books all throughout the house and one in the glove box of your car in case you need something to read ... and even taking four books on a trip so you won't run out of reading material!) reader should read because she/he will find her/himself in those pages. Who hasn't packed a lot of books on vacation, intending to read them only to never open up a page? Who hasn't had insomnia and would turn on the light at 3 a.m., just to read something or even stay up all night just to finish a book? This author could be writing about me! Oh wait. She's writing about herself and that is just as fun to read! 

So it's true, not enough time to read all these yummy books out there but hey, this one is a great start for those who need something different to read!

7-9-0
