  Kinsey Millhone is an established private investigator in Santa Teresa, California. She is finally on her own, in an office that leaves much to be desired. It is spring.
   Lieutenant Con Dolan drops by. Dolan is the semi-retired head of the Santa Teresa Police Department's Homicide unit. Dolan wants to wants to reopen an old murder investigation as a way of cheering up his friend and mentor, Stacey Oliphant, who is dying of cancer. The murder is one that Oliphant investigated, but never solved.
   Dolan himself is not healthy. He has had several heart attacks, and his lifestyle invites another.
   The victim was a teenage girl, whose body had been dumped down an embankment, from a highway. Her hands had been bound together with wire, her throat had been slashed, and she had been stabbed repeatedly in the chest. She seems to have been hitchhiking through town, perhaps going northward. She had remained unidentified. 
   Kinsey agrees to help as a paid consultant, and to do the necessary legwork that Dolan and Oliphant are not healthy enough to do. There is already a very likely suspect for the murder, Frankie Miracle, who is on parole after serving time for another murder. But, Kinsey and the others can't quite manage to find the evidence that would pin this murder on him. They keep digging, and things get complicated.
	They find someone willing to go to great lengths to make sure that the past remains buried.

	In my opinion, the novel opens brilliantly. Con Dolan and Stacey Oliphant are characters that readers will care about and find interesting, and the case that they want to re-investigate is intriguing. 
	The story develops logically. The writing, as with all Grafton novels, is interesting and often amusing.
	This novel contains an especially good portrayal of the deleterious effects that false information can have upon police work, and how a change in just a couple of supposed facts can completely re-orient a case. It falls mainly to Kinsey to do the constant digging, constant theorizing, and constant winnowing of new theories that is necessary to finally arrive at a theory that is not false. Kinsey is shrewd enough to do it.
	"Q" is for Quarry, like other Kinsey Millhone novels, is worth reading largely because of the characters, the interactions between them, and because of Kinsey herself. Especially strong characters are Con Dolan and Stacey Oliphant, and Henry Pitts, the retired baker who is Kinsey Millhone's landlord, and Henry's wacky friends.
	In other ways, Q is for Quarry is a letdown, especially after the excellent P is for Peril. Toward the end of the book there is a proliferation of named characters who are hard to keep straight. There are silly patches. Very few small town women, for example, would divorce their husbands after decades of marriage simply because they learned that he had not been a virgin on their wedding night.
	People have a remarkable propensity to confess things to Kinsey that they have not told to those closest to them, even though they frequently dislike Kinsey. Sometimes it is because Kinsey pursues the truth like a terrier, but sometimes it just happens.
	The novel has Kinsey's (and Grafton's) personality woven into it. Crooks who successfully work the system, or who try to work the system, are favorite objects of scorn. And as Grafton has observed elsewhere, "You can't save anyone except yourself."

	This novel is based on a genuine cold case. An account of the true crime and a reconstruction of the victim's features are given after the novel in hope of inducing someone to come forward with relevant information
