"Mission of Gravity" by Hal Clement was first published in Astounding Magazine from April through July of 1953.  Hal Clement is the pseudonym of Harry Clement Stubbs.  He was originally a high school teacher, and his approach to science fiction established the sub-genre known as hard science fiction.  "Mission of Gravity" is undoubtedly is most well known work, and it was recognized by the fans and fellow authors numerous times.  In 1955 it was nominated for the International Fantasy award.  In 1956 it tied for 18th on the All-Time Poll for best science fiction book, and was ranked 15th on the same poll in 1966.  Locus readers rated it 16th in 1975 for novels, 36th in 1987 for sf novels, and 37th in 1998 for sf novels written before 1990.  In 1994 it won the Ignotus award for best foreign novel.  Lastly, it was nominated for the retro Hugo award for the year 1953 for best novel.

Hal Clement used the scientific theory and facts of 1953 to build an unusual world and shape an intriguing story.  He created Mesklin, a disc-shaped planet with a very wide radius at the equator and much smaller between the poles.  As a result the gravity changes radically depending where one is on the surface, from as little as three times that of Earth at the equator, to several hundreds of times that of Earth at the poles.  The planet is inhabited by Mesklinites, who are a millipede type people much smaller than humans.  The premise of the story is that an Earth probe which has crashed near one of the poles needs to be recovered, but it is impossible for humans to survive in such an environment and so they enlist the aid of the Mesklinites to recover the needed data.

In addition to the science of the story, Clement does a good job of creating an alien society, where trade and profit are the prime factors.  He also creates interesting characters and an engaging story.  The most interesting character is the alien commander, Barlennan, with whom Charles Lackland, one of the humans, communicates and works throughout the story.  The story has become dated, as one would expect given the advances in science over the last 50+ years.  However, in spite of this and because of the great job of characterization and story telling, this remains a book well worth reading
