Being a pretty big Buffy fan, I always give the Buffy tie-in books a chance and usually I'm severely disappointed.  But Christopher Golden's 'The Lost Slayer' (which is a compilation of a series of 4 previously released books) is actually pretty decent.  Though its not without its faults, its one of the better Buffy novels I've read.

The story basically goes like this:  taking place at the beginning of season three, Buffy is trying to keep her "regular" life seperate from her "Slayer" life.  So she pretty much disallows the rest of the gang from helping her on any Slayer-related duties which, obviously, hurts some feelings as Willow, Xander, etc. have all always helped Buffy ever since they've known her.  So while Buffy is at odds with her friends, a new uber demon/vampire named Camazotz rolls into Sunnydale and sets up shop.  Giles is taken captive by Camazotz and Buffy must figure out how to get him back.  But she learns that she has made a huge error and, to make a long story short, gets sent 5 years into the future to see what repercussions her mistake has made.

Now, the lead-up to Buffy jumping into the future and after she comes back are pretty boring.  And the actual way she jumps is kinda silly and this Camazotz is a pretty boring big bad.  But when Buffy goes into the future and sees what a vampire-infested warzone Sunnydale has become, it is excellent.  And when she finds out who the new big bad is in future Sunnydale, well...  I wasn't expecting it.  I'm sure who it is is in other reviews here, but I won't give it away in mine as I don't like spoilers myself.  But its very good and something I always wanted to see on the television show.  Usually with these Buffy tie-ins, the writing is pretty bad and the characterizations are way off.  But 'The Lost Slayer' is pretty good.  Its gets off a little easier than most though because most of the book does not have to follow canon as it is set in an alternate universe, so things would obviously be different there.  But its well written and the characters, for the most part, feel like themselves.  And Buffy vs. the future Sunnydale Big Bad is really, really good.

'The Lost Slayer' weighs in at an impressive 570 pages, so this probably isn't a Buffy book you're gonna sit down and pound out in a couple hours.  Sure, there's some slow parts, namely the opening and the kinda disappointing ending, but the middle two-thirds of the book is pretty dang good.  It really would've been something to see had a similar storyline played out on the show.  Anyway, I haven't read tons of the Buffy books(maybe five or six total), but this is by far the best one I've read.  If you're a Buffy fan, this is an interesting little alternate universe tale that you will enjoy
