I don't know if the author really talked to 101 successful entrepreneurs or not. I suspect not. Instead, this book might better be sub-titled 101 tips on financing a business. 

There are people who simply have to run their own business. It's a lot easier to work for someone else, just show up on time, work reasonably hard, go home a little bit later than most prople and so on. Some of us have a very hard time doing that. 

I've started several businesses over the years. Each one has been more successful than the one before. Experience has taught me several things.  And I'm going to use that experience to comment on some of her 101 tips. 

Tip #1 - Do a business plan. There are several software programs that are almost fill in the blank. Get one and fill in the blanks. Even if you never show this plan to anyone else, it will force you to think through your whole business. 

Tip #7 - Start on a Shoestring. It is much easier to get money to expand a business than it is to get money to start from scratch. 

Re a bunch of Tips on borrowing money - Don't. It has to be paid back. Unless you are very, very certain that you can pay it back in a very short time - DON'T! 

Tip 46-48 - Yes, yes, a hundred times YES!. Live cheaply. Don't buy the big car, big house, whatever. 

Tips 77-80 - Government Programs. Forget them, they aren't worth the time they take. 

Tips on venture capital and going public. This is a basic business decision. Do you want to run a small business or create a public company that you can get out of? 

This lady understands what she is writing about. But keep in mind that you are talking about your business, your ideas, your future. Read a book on business. 
Get a business started. 
Read a book on business. 
If it works great. If it doesn't, get a job for a while, start another one in your part time using what you learned from the failure of the first one. 
Read a book on business. 
Switch to running your business full time. 
Read a book on business. 
Repeat as necessary
