I am continually amazed at the consistently high quality of Robert A. Heinlein's writing. Whether he was writing a short story for a pulp magazine, a light adventure story for teenagers, or an epic work for adults, there was one consistent fact running through all of Heinlein's works: they are fun to read. Heinlein's work is the literary anti-thesis of &quot;watching grass grow.&quot; His dialogue was top-notch (the best since Oscar Wilde), and his stories were fast-paced and exciting. Although many claim that he lost his touch in later years and began writing overlong, self-indulgent novels that pushed his hobby horses at the expense of a narrative, his &quot;juvies&quot; - great SF adventure yarns written for teens in the 1950's - remain a fascinating and remarkable staple of this kind of literature. Although his writings then were all fast-paced and extremely fun to read, the truly incredible thing about them is that they are much more than just surface-deep: he consistently packed his books with provocative messages. Although some claim that he often beat you over the head and forced his opinions on you, one must at least admit this of Heinlein: his works were intelligent and thought-provoking; and, whether or not you agree with his opinions, you must certainly respect them. His works teach you to think for yourself - certainly a valuable asset for the growing teen. Between Planets, while not being among the top tier of Heinlein juvies (Red Planet, Tunnel In The Sky, Citizen of The Galaxy), is a fine, fun, and delightful read. Like many Heinlein works, it pushes the virtues of the military, and it features a lot of political and social overtones that may be lost among some of the younger readers for which it was intended - which is precisely why I reccommend this (and Heinlein's other juvenile books) to adults as much as to anyone. Readers of all ages can enjoy any of his works as they are invariably well-written and interesting. This book is certainly no exception. It has the quality of a mystery to it (a tactic which Heinlein did not often resort to), and it is suspenseful and will keep you reading. Many have pointed out that the majority of the story is now dated (not to mention impossible) due to subsequent advances in science - true. But Heinlein, though often classed as a &quot;hard&quot; science fiction writer, never intended for science to be the central tenet of his stories; no, Heinlein is the man who introduced the social sciences (politics, economics, psychology) into science fiction. This book is a prime example of that. Those who go around pointing out its scientific fallacies are missing the point. If for nothing else, enjoy the book for what it ultimately is: an enjoyable and delightful science fiction adventure romp. Any Heinlein fan will want to pick this up; if you are unacquainted, however, you should read some of his other works (such as the ones I mentioned, or later novels such as Starship Troopers, Stranger In A Strange Land or The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress) first
