What a struggle it must be to be the shade of Cicero!  How it must torment the soul of this most proud and ambitious Roman to forever wander the fringes of history and fame, perpetually overshadowed by both his more military contemporaries - Marius, Sulla, Pompey, and, of course, Julius Caesar - as well as his bloodthirsty heirs - the Roman imperial family?  Cicero was a man of colossal achievement, and yet, if one counts the novels written about Caesar alone and compares them to the novels about Cicero, well, it ain't even close.  

Robert Harris tries to remedy this with the entertaining, if not quite rollicking, "Imperium," a novel of Cicero's rise to political fame.  In a refreshing change from established practice, Harris has written a fantastic novel of the final years of the Roman Republican that is not awash in blood and gore, but instead offers political intrigue in spades.  This is also an impeccably-researched novel, more along the lines of Colleen McCullough's "Masters of Rome" series than Conn Iggulden's more recent four-volume "Emperor" series.  Apparently "Imperium" is the first volume in a planned trilogy, and it reads like it.  

The novel is narrated by Cicero's slave/secretary, Tiro, inventor of shorthand.  This is a clever ruse by Harris, because Tiro is logically present at Cicero's greatest triumphs in the courts and in negotiations, but he is not a protagonist.  Tiro, a real historical figure regretably lost due to the vagaries of time, is a fantastic narrator - pithy, observant, and willing to call out his master when appropriate.  Tiro also has a decent sense of humor, and makes the occasional funny observation.

How did Cicero, who came from a hopelessly middle-class background, manage to weave between the feuding aristocrats and populists to win the most coveted title in the Republic - that of consul?  By being smarter than everybody else.  That was no mean feat, given his contemporaries.  But Tiro tells this story with balance and verve, and Cicero remains refreshingly human for all his triumphs.  It's refreshing to read about how the Great Advocate barfs up his lunch on the way to giving one of his greatest orations!  Too often our Roman heroes look back upon us from history as if perpetually etched in marble rather than actual human figures, and that is just not the case here.

I reserve the right to amend "Imperium" to a five-star novel, depending on later works.  It's just so obvious that Harris has left several threads unfinished, and some characters get brief treatment here that, one hopes, will be more fully examined in later installments.  If Harris fails to do so, a mere four-star book this will remain.  If he succeeds, this will be a "great kickoff novel."  

Exciting, funny, and intelligent, "Imperium" is a must-read for any fan of historical fiction of the ancient world. 
