Here's a capsule summary of what is taught as "Catholic History" in most American Catholic schools--at least since the 1960s:

"The Catholic Church emerged from the catacombs in late Roman times only to be corrupted by wealth and political power. Once this power had been attained, the Church strove to hold onto it and that meant violently squelching all dissent, free thought, science, and human advancement. Thus, the Church was a nasty force that helped usher in the evil and backwards Middle Ages (cue menacing organ music). St. Francis was nice because he taught us to love animals, but otherwise, the Medieval Church used the Inquisition (cue organ music again) to hold back human progress until Martin Luther and Gallileo came along and forced Her to stop persecuting people who disagreed with Her teachings. This reform reached its climax at Vatican II, but the stubbornness of some Catholics and the Pope still prevents the Catholic Church from reaching the heights of openness and tolerance attained by, for instance, the Episcopal Church."

If you were educated in the protestantized Catholic school system in the United States and bought into the above, much of what appears in this book is going to come as a shock to your system. Woods' book could be called "The Secret History of the Catholic Church" as it details the incomparable achievements of the Church throughout the ages--achievements which have often been ignored or willfully misappropriated by secular and protestant scholars. Woods covers a variety of noble Church endeavors, most of which took place during the dreaded Middle Ages: the foundation of the university system, patronage of the arts and architecture, patronage of science, the creation of the idea of natural and international law, advancements in economic theory, the foundation of the unrivaled Catholic system of charity, etc. Woods makes a convincing case that without the advancements supported and encouraged by the Catholic Church, many of the celebrated attainments of the Renaissance and so-called "Age of Enlightenment" would have been impossible. Indeed, the well-known secular scholars, scientists, and artists of the 16th-19th century stood on the shoulders of Catholic giants--many of them priests, bishops, and Popes. 

A particular strength of this book is that Woods does not simply utilize the fawning opinions of Church defenders to build his case. Instead, he more often uses the begrudging praise of some of the Church's harshest critics--scholars who can hardly be accused of harboring a bias in favor of the Catholic Church.

The only flaw I detected in this book was a neglect of the Catholic study of history in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. I would have liked to have seen a discussion of the achievements of Cesare Cardinal Baronius whose "Ecclesiastical Annals" had such an enormous impact that they spurred voluminous response from protestant scholars for centuries to come. Sadly, Cardinal Baronius is almost completely unknown in the English-speaking world, while while the works of some of his unfriendly critics, such as Edward Gibbon, may be found in any local bookstore.

But this is a minor quibble. This book is a towering achievement and should be read by every Catholic high school student in America. That it won't be is a testament to how far Catholic education in this country still has to go before it is once again truly Catholic
