In his book The Power of Intention, Dr. Wayne Dyer's main point seems to be that your life is co-created by you and "Intention" (which is his word for God or the Source of all power). 

Life is a constant, eternal process that is always purposeful. In fact, Dr. Dyers says there are no accidents and each of us was intended to be here--precisely on purpose as that is the only way Intention ever does anything.

But we are not at all devoid of power or at the whim of some evil force. Things don't just "happen" to us. Dr. Dyer says we choose how we experience our lives by aligning our creative powers with the Seven Faces of Intention (creativity, kindness, love, beauty, expansion, abundance, receptivity)or by aligning with the opposite which is our tiny, fear-based ego. He says that "at every single moment of your life, you have the choice to either be a host to God or a hostage to your ego." 

Dr. Dyer believes we can live a more peaceful, joyful life by choosing to go with the flow of Intention rather than making the choice against it. But either way, it is our choice and we will not be denied the outcome of that decision.

The book is set up in three parts which are basically: background for what you need to know about Intention and how it works, a step-by-step, doable plan for putting Intention to work for you, and an insightful glimpse at what your life will be like if you work with Intention vs. ego. The preface encourages you to read the last chapter of the book first so you know what you're working towards.

For me, this book's most valuable teachings were the author's constant pairing between what choices look like from experiences based on a "for God" decision, or the "ego" decision. He uses common, ordinary examples of decisions and circumstances that we all face, and then plays them out by sharing real life experiences and encounters.

Bottom line, if you don't like the way your life is right now, you must notice and take responsibility for your part in the creation of it. You must quit complaining about what doesn't work for you or what you don't like about your life, and instead, choose your thoughts based on what you want in your life. The creative energy that forms life works absolutely perfectly for everyone all of the time and it can only bring you what you think about and ask for. 

You have the power to live a life more to your liking. Dr. Dyer never says breaking destructive habits is easy, but he does provide a very workable plan if you decide you want more joy and less pain. 

 
