Stationary Bike is a Stephen King story that is reminiscent perhaps of his days writing under the name Richard Bachman.  With this audio book format, we have a story that is strong in character development and imaginative themes.  Its only downfall perhaps is that it is to short of a story and leaves an ending that finds closure with the main character but at the same time, a somewhat uninteresting outcome.

Stationary Bike is about a man named Richard Sifkitz.  People will be able to easily identify with his character as he, like millions of people, is getting to the age (late thirties) where he is going to have to start worrying more about his health.  At the prompting of his doctor, Sifkitz decides to start maintaining his exercise regimen much more aggressively and purposefully.  He decides to buy a stationary bike.

As a commercial artist who lost his wife recently, Sifkitz suddenly gets an idea and starts painting a mural sort of scene to look at while he is riding his bike in the basement of his house.  This serene, rural landscape quickly becomes an actual world that he is engrossed in, sort of a "virtual reality" if you will.  The road gets longer, and branches off, until we, the listener, are introduced to an entire state in Richard's "state of mind".  Along this road is the meat of the story, the metabolic workman.  The construction crews are characters based off of Richard's memories, whether it is a high school chum or real life serial killer Sam Berkowitz.  Their job is simple: They are the metaphysical comparison of his metabolism.  Their own livelihood is based off of how much excess junk Sifkitz consumes.  As he rides more and more, there is less junk for the workman to work with, as more and more of it is being used for instant energy and ultimately burning off.  Soon, the man on the stationary bike on the trails of this alternate landscape that stems from his own artists hand finds himself in some dire situations.  The workmen need work, and Sifkitz is holding up progress.

The stories plot is a fun one.  Taking a painting and then making it the backdrop for characters that represent your bodies natural functions is bizarre and yet intriguing.  I suppose I was not very happy with the ending for the fact that the ending I would have wanted would have been much more macabre.  However, that would easily be seen in a full-length novel and not a shorter tale in audio book format.  Overall it was a good story and though it was not superb in any certain area, King's ability to bring out the characters personalities and past so that we not only relate to them, but also care, is seen here in prime form.

Ron McLarty is the narrator for this audio book version and does a great job.  The intermission "eerie" music that plays is also a nice added touch
