When viewing a piece of famous art, a person might ask themselves, "what exactly was the artist thinking?" or they might wonder what the artist was like to be able to produce the work that they do.  In the case of Andy Warhol, the biggest art star of the last 100 years, these questions are answered in his autobiographical work, "The Philosophy of Andy Warhol : (From A to B and Back Again)".

Famous not only for his artwork, but in fact more for his lifestyle and public image, Andy gives us a peek into his own mind through his thought processes, phobias, vices and conversations with friends whom he usually refers to simply as "B".  This book sometimes reads like an artist's manifesto with chapters on love, beauty, money, work, time and atmosphere which consists of short thoughts on the particular subject, intermingled with brief anecdotes of encounter's Andy has had which helped to form his unique opinions.  Other chapters consists may entirely consist of a conversation he has with a friend.  The chapter on Death is empty due to his relative inexperience on the topic at the time of writing.  Some of the chapters seem to be a rhetoric about a particular person or event that Andy must have felt demonstrated a particular topic.  

The only problem I had with this book was the chapter entitled, "Tingle".  This chapter consists of the details of a phone call with B who lists, in exhausting detail, her obsessive compulsive cleaning habits.  It wouldn't be so bad if it only lasted a page or two, but at 24 pages long, this is a good chapter to skip.

Most of the time, Warhol's writing style is much less carefully constructed and more of a stream-of-consciousness kind of thought pattern.  This aspect makes the book this much more entertaining as we get a better glimpse into Warhol's mind, in fact it doesn't seem that a better view into his mind would be available than this which shows his methods of thinking, conversations with himself and all written by the actual artist.

Overall, at it's worst, this book is an amusing and entertaining read that forces the reader to examine their own opinions about the topics presented.  At it's best, this book is another stroke of brilliance on the part of Andy Warhol.  Some may wonder if he knew the apparent absurdity of some of the material within, but this question is answered when reading about how careful he was with his public and private image.  The conclusion is that this book further cements Warhol's star status, a move that I can only believe was a deliberate one.
