In the opening scene of THIS BOY'S LIFE, young Toby Wolff and his mother are parked on the descent of a mountain road, waiting for the overheated engine of their cheap car to cool. An 18-wheeler suddenly blows past them, swerving wildly - his brakes are gone. Later, as they descend the mountain, Toby sees the semi has driven off a cliff, falling several hundred feet into a river below. This incident, obviously intended as a metaphor for the boy's life we are about to read, presumably signals bad things to come. Nevertheless, Tobias Wolff's boyhood memoir is a charming story of growing up in the 1950s in just this side of a trailer park culture, a story about creating adolescent identities as freely as trying on shoes until the right fit is found. 

Not surprisingly, the main identity seeker in THIS BOY'S LIFE is "this boy." Toby lives with his divorced mother and her man friend, the physically abusive Roy. As the book opens, Toby and his mother are fleeing Florida and Roy for Utah, where they believe they can get rich by prospecting for uranium (this is the early 1950's, and atomic bombs were all the rage). Roy follows them to Utah where they settle for a while, but Roy's insistence on having children prompts Toby's mother to take him on the road again. By the luck of the bus schedule draw, they end up in Seattle. Over time, Toby's mother meets another man, Dwight, eventually decides to marry him (to give Toby a father figure), and moves into Dwight's home in the small town of Concrete. Along the way, Toby has changed his name to Jack because a girl in his class was named Toby, and because he likes Jack London stories. Roy has introduced Toby/Jack to rifles, and Dwight introduces him to the Boy Scouts. 

Toby is not alone in seeking an identity. His childhood friend Terry Silver, whose father is a Jewish cantor, wears homemade Nazi armbands and yells anti-Semitic epithets at people he dislikes. Later, Toby meets a Father Karl who turns out to be a convert to Christianity and whose parents were Jewish concentration camp victims. Another young friend, Arthur, takes on the "good schoolboy" identity even though he and Toby both know that that's not the real Arthur. An older friend, Chuck, tells Toby about the marriage he has already fully imagined for himself, even as he faces the prospect of going to jail for the statutory rape of a girl in whom he has no interest. Toby's mother scuttles from job to job and man to man, choosing badly in most instances and then resigns herself to the consequences with almost Job-like endurance. Even Dwight struggles to define himself as something more than the loser he is, imagining himself among other things a great white hunter. 

The real Toby in all of this, however, is a lost child. He is constantly in trouble, hangs out with other bad kids, disregards school, steals things from stores, attempts to forge checks, takes lying to an almost obsessive level, and ultimately gets caught stealing gasoline from a car belonging to a dirt-poor farm family. Curiously, he seems completely uninterested in girls and never gets himself into the kinds of female relationship troubles his friends manage to find. His most outrageous lie actually lands him an opportunity he doesn't deserve, and although the end result was less than a success, it seems to have paved the way for the adult Toby to emerge. The end doesn't justify the means, but without Toby's chosen means, the end would likely have been bad, perhaps tragic. So who can say for sure? 

THIS BOY'S LIFE is a veritable paean to male parental dysfunction. Toby's real father, rich and living in Connecticut, is both physically and emotionally distant. The reasons are never made clear, a confusing circumstance given the apparently successful upbringing of Toby's older brother, Geoffrey (a Choate and Princeton graduate). When he finally elects to insert himself back into his younger son's life, Toby's father proves himself catastrophically useless. Then there are the physically abusive Roy and the pathologically insecure Dwight. Dwight in particular is the bane of Toby's youth, sometimes verbally abusive, other times physically so. He is a loser extraordinaire, laughably pathetic in his efforts to assert his manliness yet ominously dangerous as a consequence of his utter ineptitude. Dwight's self-esteem is so low that he exerts his power over Toby and his mother by driving drunk at high speeds with them, stealing Toby's paper route earnings, forcing Toby into meaningless "punishment chores," and partaking in weird control freak exercises like counting all the candies in the house every night to see how many Toby had eaten.  

Slowly but surely, Tobias Wolff leads us on a journey that, through many twists and turns, reveals bits and pieces of the adult. We can imagine the man based on the childhood, and the author provides enough clues to point us in the right direction. Young Toby's life was indeed something of a wild, careening ride down a mountain road with very little for brakes. Wolff skids on the shoulder a few times and bumps a guard rail or two, but in the end, he avoids the cliffs and manages to reach what we can assume was a reasonable adulthood.  

