The payoff for reading Cynthia Harriman's "Take Your Kids to Europe" carefully is tremendous.  We have a five-week trip to Europe coming up and our copy if already getting dog-eared from overreading. This guidebook is different and better.  Most "what to do with the kids overseas" books are filled with things you already instinctively knew - i.e. your kid will like Legoland and here is how to get there and the hours it's open. Harriman's guide acknowledges there is more to a successful family trip than just picking the right things to see, and she uses the reactions of her own actual kids to back up her suggestions. For example, she is a master of managing family dynamics on a trip.  Here are a few of her suggestions:

1) Everybody wants to do something different, and nobody likes to compromise.  It's just about impossible to agree, so Harriman suggests a "leader of the day" system - each member of the family gets a day or part of a day to pick what the "team" will do, where it will eat.  Everybody gets to do some of their favorites eventually.  This takes some self-discipline on the part of the parents - if the kids want to spend the morning by the pool, you'll have to agree - but you'll get to see that church you want to see in the afternoon.

2) You are looking for family togetherness but in fact that much togetherness can be stressful.  For example, your teenager is all about independence.  Go ahead and let said teenager hang out alone in the hotel room for an afternoon if that's what she needs.  You and your spouse will argue about giving directions; Harriman encourages you to loosen up and learn about each other.

3) Harriman has a lot of good suggestions about how to make a lengthy trip affordable, and gives good suggestions for budgeting in advance.

In additional to general advice, Harriman shows excellent good sense in sections on what attractions to see - she's frank about things the kids were underwhelmed by (most chateaus just aren't as interesting as you'd think to a 9-year-old), and points out things that are actually more fun than they would sound on paper.  So rather than 50 kid-oriented attractions in a country (like other books), all presented with equal breathless interest, she might have 20 - 15 her kids really liked (and why), and 5 they didn't like. 

Harriman does not recommend many specific hotels and restaurants (there are other sources for those), so you may find you supplement this book with others.  But you can't do without this one - I really love it. 

