Rediscovering an illustrator you loved as a child, even if you never knew their name back in the day, is a treat.  Julia Alvarez, of course, is an author who needs no explanation.  If you haven't picked up one of her well-known children's books ("Before We Were Free", for example) then the title, "How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents, In the Time of the Butterflies" is bound to prick up a couple ears here and there.  Illustrator Beatriz Vidal, on the other hand, was a mystery to me.  In vain I attempted to find her website or Google her so that I could learn more about her as an artist.  I had nearly given her up as a newby illustrator when I looked at some of the other books she had done via Amazon.  If you are a child of the 80s like myself then the odds are good that "Reading Rainbow" constituted some of your television fare.  And if you watched  any early episodes then you'll probably recall James Earl Jones reading, "Bringing the Rain to Kapiti Plain" by Verna Aardema and (dum dum da dum!) illustrated by the one and only Beatriz Vidal.  In this way, "A Gift of Gracias" was a welcoming return to an artist I loved especially as a child.  
	
Maria lives in the Dominican Republic with her mother, father, and the old Indian Quisqueya.  Her father's olive tree crop has been failing miserably in the Dominican soils and it looks as if the family will have to give up the farming life and move to the city.  That night, Maria dreams of a grove of orange trees planted with the blessing of the most beautiful Nuestra Senora de la Altagracia, or Our Lady of Thanks.  The oranges her father recently purchased in the big city are reaped of their seeds and planted with thanks.  In no time at all they bloom and miraculously yield a crop that would normally take years.  When her papa asks her what she would like from the city, Maria responds that all she wants is a portrait of Our Lady of Altagracia.  Her father sells every last orange to a profit but no such portrait can he find.  Fortunately, Quisqueya is by his side and in the night the man captures the stars in a blanket and presents to Maria a miraculous image when they return back home.  In the back of the book is a summary of different names for the Virgin Mary in Mexico, Portugal, and Cuba.  Julia Alvarez goes one to mention the history of this tale, the virgin's intervention, and where Quisqueya got his name.  
	
The tale is a lovely one and its even pacing and style reminded me quite a lot of the Caldecott winning picture book, "Song of the Swallows" by Leo Politi.  Both books are quiet looks at nature and the rewards that come with faith.  In this particular case, Alvarez has told a simple fable that can be embraced by Catholics as well as people of every religion and creed.  As she says in her note in the back, "whether you are Dominican or not, Our Lady of Thanks, like Mother Earth, really belongs to all of us".  This would make a lovely addition to Earth Day collections without relying on overt messages.
	
The review of this book from Booklist calls Ms. Vidal's style, "stylized folk-art".  I'm not entirely certain that I agree.  Certainly her use of illustrations have a flat two-dimensional look to them, but the result are pictures that glow with a soft inner light.  "Folk-art" suggests a similar flatness in color, something that does not exist in Ms. Vidal's work.  I should think that the cover would be enough to show that.  It's not a fancy style, but rather a majestic dignified form of illustration.  Just the right complement to Alvarez's particular tale.  In the end, I suspect "A Gift of Gracias" will find its biggest customers to be of a religious persuasion.  I would equally encourage those of you who just like a nice quiet story to also take a gander at it.  Oranges, it seems, have finally gotten their due.
