Martin Hiedigger is one of the most controversial philosophers from the 20th century.  Certainly at the very least a very dark shadow is cast over him by his association with the Nazi party in the 1930's, as well as several dispicable actions which he deserves infamy for, most notably his cruel actions towards his benefactor and mentor Edmund Husserl, himself one of the finest philosophers of the 20th century.  

Added to this is the terrible obscurity of much of Heidigger's tortured writing.  Like many German philosophers he seemed to not take much care with clear and logical expression, something more valued in the UK and the English speaking world.  Sometimes the works of Heidigger can seem as impenetrable as the Amazon rainforest.

However, with some patience, Heidigger in my view is saying something deep and profound in Being and Time, as well as his other works.  He does, despite his shortcomings, deserve to remain considered a great philosopher, not for how he behaved, but for what he thought.  

Being and time is probably his most important work and is basically an attempt to rethink the problem of human existence after the collapse of religious belief and metaphysics.  What meaning can ultimately be given to our existence in the world?  What point do we start from, if God doesn't exist?  

It is hard to pin down Heidigger in terms of religious belief, and it could be said he might be trying to work out a philosophy of Being and existence which will make it possible for us to regain the wonder of existence held by the ancient Greeks like Parmenides or Heraclitus, without falling into dogmatism.  The starting point for Heidigger is our temporality, that is, the fact we exist as beings in time.  There is no flight from our world to another world where there is no time; to properly understand ourselves philosophically we must take our temporality as a given.  There is no static humanity; hence no essence preceding existence.  The second key point is the giveness of the world, and the third is being human, we are always concerned for this world and the things in it.  All these three things are integral and one; none can exist without the other.  

Our fundamental mode of existence in this world is one of 'care.'  Because of our concern for other things and people, the world is not a formless nothing but instead reveals itself as something 'present to hand', something which arouses our interest and curiosity.  This basic fact of our existence is what creates the impulse to wonder, and hence our impulses to religion, to philosophy, and to science.  

Another critical idea in Heidigger is our relation to death.  Because we are concious of our death, we know our being is finite and is completed by death.  However, to Hiedigger it is vitally important we don't run away from our mortality but accept it and make it a part of who we are; our greatest possibility is our possibility not to be.  

Of course Heidigger's thought is immensely complex and there is more to it than just these ideas.  While we may criticize his existential analysis of our being, in my view his insights are very interesting and still worth considering, and it will be some time before the meaning of these thoughts become entirely clear
