I own multiple translations and editions of the Bible, but this Cambridge Large-Print KJV is my favorite.  I'm not sure what the book photo on the Amazon page is supposed to represent.  A version of the box it comes in?  The box mine came in is a solid gold box with red and black print.  The Bible itself is lovely red Moroccan leather with "Holy Bible" stenciled simply on the front and spine.  This and THE NEW OXFORD ANNOTATED BIBLE edition of the New Revised Standard Version are the two translations I use by far the most.  In studying the Gospels I frequently consult THE SYNOPSIS OF THE FOUR GOSPELS in the RSV version as edited by Kurt Aland, which arranges the four gospels in parallel and which I consider an essential study tool.  But for sheer joy of reading the Bible I prefer this KJV over all other versions.

The King James Version is widely reviled as inaccurate, but in fact it is a highly accurate translation of a flawed original.  The New Testament translators, for instance, worked off the Greek New Testament edited by Erasmus.  Though a great religious humanist, Erasmus did not produce a great text, consulting only six Greek manuscripts in compiling his edition.  Today, of course, scholars are able to consult a host of Greek manuscripts--both manuscripts of the NT books as well as ancient manuscripts quoting scripture--in compiling the finest possible texts.  But the truth is that while accuracy is a great thing, the Erasmus text resulted in fewer misreadings than one might expect.

The main reason to read the KJV, however, is its great beauty.  Some have argued, and with some justification, that the KJV distorts the nature of the Greek texts, creating a "high" translation of what was a "low" original.  In the Gospels, there is considerable justification in this.  The various letters, however, especially those of Paul, show someone who was highly educated and conversant with the rhetorical models of the time.  The "high" translations were in these cases justified.  But the KJV is hardly alone in cleaning up the language of the gospels and making it more sophisticated.  Virtually all translations do this, perhaps the Today's English Version less than any of them (a remarkable and underrated translation).  Still, there is a beauty and familiarity with the KJV that no other translation can come close to matching.

What I love about this particular edition is the beauty of the text on the page and the comfort of the book in my hand.  Too many Bibles cram too much text onto each page, rendering it hard on the eye.  The words on these pages are clear, distinct, and welcoming.  I love the simple, clean, and unadorned nature of the pages and do not miss the lack of critical apparatus to aid in reading it.  When I want maps and other aides I go to the OXFORD ANNOTATED.

I strongly recommend this particular edition to anyone wanting a beautiful yet plain edition of the King James Version.  I have not seen the hardback edition, but I can completely vouch for the leather
