Although information on the book jacket of The Successor claims that Albanian author Ismail Kadare is acclaimed worldwide, few English-speaking readers knew of him until he won the 2005 Man Booker Prize.  Accessibility to his works is also hampered by the fact that for various reasons, the English translations are second hand, passing first through French.

From Kadare's introductory caveat in The Successor (" . . . any resemblance between the characters and circumstances of this tale and real people and events is inevitable") and the first sentence ("The Designated Successor was found dead in his bedroom on December 14"), the reader can quickly deduce that the novel is both historical and political.  The simple plot presents the death as a mystery.  Was the Successor's death suicide (the party line) or was it murder?  It seems as though the Successor chose "to have himself hauled away by two black oxen . . .".  Details are sparse, varied, and presented in flashback by potential murders and others.  The country is Albania, but the year is not given.  Most characters have titles but no names.  The exceptions are a truly fictional daughter (the actual Successor had only sons) and another would-be successor Adrian Hasobeu.  At this point, the reader who cannot tolerate ambiguity can consult the book jacket or more elaborate resources.  Since this is a fictional account, facts might not be that important.  The text explains, moreover, that Albania is governed by a Communist dictarorship; parnoid suspicion rather than truth reigns.  Truth is not to be found, but the book presents an engaging read by holding out the bait.  While the mysterious death of a leader is more prevalent in Communist countries, such deaths also occur in democracies--John F. Kennedy.  Documented facts do not reveal the facts about such deaths.  The style of this novel suits the subject well.  It is a cross between The Trial and Rashomon (other reviewers have made the comparison).  Kadare combines Kafka's nightmarish landscapes with subjectivity and folktale elements.

Like the Successor, Ismail Kadare is also hauled around by two oxen, but one is black and one is white.  Because he had close but reputedly necessary Communist party connections, Kadare has received some controversial press from Albanians and other informed individuals.  Interesting information about Kadare can be found on blogs.  In the final analysis, however, he does write well.      
