     I read "Cover Up" because I heard the author (PL) on a very popular
nationally-syndicated radio show. He was part of a panel discussing
9-11, of course. I really couldn't decide whether PL thought that 9-11
was a govt. conspiracy, but he was very critical of a very "strident"
conspiracy radio host/film maker. PL claimed that he wrote only what
he could prove, and that the "powers that be" actually want people to
believe in vague, high-level conspiracies rather than getting at the "real"
facts. Having read many books on 9/11 that indeed point to a high-level
govt. conspiracy, I wanted to read "Cover Up" to get another point of
view about 9-11, this despite the scoffs from my friends!

     I found "Cover Up" interesting for the most part, also quite 
informative, as if a short primer on domestic terrorism (I will assume 
that PL got his facts straight), though as I'll discuss below, I am still
not certain what PL really thinks about 9-11. 

     "Cover Up" depicts shocking, outrageous corruption, perhaps the most 
egregious corruption is the FBI/Justice Dept.'s cover up of the relationship 
between a fairly high-level agent and a Mafia hitman who killed many people 
in a war among "families." While a large element of organized crime is 
apparently eliminated, laws are broken at every turn, and when the FBI 
man is prosecuted, he answers "I can't remember" 44 times, and is allowed 
to retire on full pension, and to make sure the corruption is never revealed, 
an honest cop's reputation is ruined, and he is stripped of his pension.

     If you read "Cover Up," and I recommend that you do, you will get the
tie-in between the son of the Mafia hitman and Ramzi Yousef, whom PL
claims devised the bomb that killed a young engineer in the so-called
"Bojinka" plane bombing, which the author connects to the TWA 800 disaster, 
in a convincing way. PL also connects all of this, along with incredible 
negligence on the FBI's part, with terrorism and 9-11, and the details are 
quite Interesting. 

     PL clearly spent a great deal of time interviewing the wives of the 
9-11 victims, who pressed for a very long time before the govt. agreed to 
have a commission, and he shows many aspects of blatant, deliberate 
suppression of evidence by the commission, many members of which were very 
compromised, and had much to lose by getting at the real truth.

     Yet I found the book lacking in certain aspects of 9-11, esp.
the lack of a deeper analysis of what exactly happened on 9-11. PL asks 
exactly the same questions that those who think that the govt. at the very
least knew in advance of the attacks, yet he makes no attempt to answer
them, and cites not one of the "conspiracy" books that do try to answer
the difficult questions. 

     A very key part of 9-11, as discussed in "Cover Up," is simply reported
and nothing more. Repeatedly we are told that Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, Yousef's
uncle, is the mastermind beind 9-11, yet I remember no evidence or further
details in the book, just a reference to PL's prior book on 9-11. Also KSM's 
arrest and interrogation are kept secret, yet again we are not told anything 
beyond this, and conspiracy researchers would obviously wonder what the real
story is?!

     So what we get is an interesting read but I was left wondering if what 
is presented in "Cover Up" is just a shadow of the deeper truth. Still, I 
recommend reading the book
