Here's my story. First off, let me say that I've never really been active. I'm 26, was approximately 30 lb overweight on a 5'5" frame and first started on Weight Watchers. I peaked at 171 lb and slowly lost 7-8 lb on WW. However, it wasn't the plan for me, what with all the cooking and counting points, etc. I didn't feel as though I could do it for the rest of my life. I also lacked the motivation to exercise. So I shopped around for a fitness plan that would give me quick results. I really wasn't expecting a program that promised results in 2 weeks so I was intrigued when I read David's book.

Exercise: I failed the fitness test but still found the fitness preprogram quite challenging. You start with the Cardio Sculpting routine which is a series of cardio moves: jumping jacks w/3 lb. weights, crossover/uppercut punches, mountain climbers, crunches and various other moves with the weights. Then you repeat (twice!) immediately. On alternating days, you focus on abs or legs and butt. AND immediately after finishing your routine, you add an additional 45 minutes of cardio (treadmill, elliptical, etc)- EVERY DAY. As a motivational technique, I decided not to weigh myself for the duration of the program. 

Diet: I purchased his shake mix but my taste buds just couldn't appreciate it so I purchased a different shake mix that I preferred. On the program you drink these twice a day - for breakfast and dinner (preferably). I drink only 1 shake a day because I like my solids. I tried his recipes but was uncomfortable eating new foods and increasing my grocery budget. Beware: it can get expensive grocery shopping for the foods he recommends. I bought a high-protein cookbook instead which has worked very well. The recipes are simple and require very little time and effort - 30 minutes or less. 

Setbacks: I've had quite a few due to schedule interruptions and sometimes lacking access to exercise equipment.

Why this worked for me: I actually felt great after each session and still do. My posture improves immediately and I have so much more energy than when I don't exercise. That's probably why I continue - because when I don't, it doesn't feel good.

I'm still working on building up to the actual program. As far as I'm concerned, it's not necessary to ever get there. But the effort makes for an interesting routine. The prefitness program is challenging enough and is yielding the results I want. David gives you tips on how to maintain the results and live healthier once you reach your goal weight. It can be done. And you'll look great
