The story of the vicious attack in rural Oregon of two women bicycling across the US the summer after the country's bicentennial celebration by an unknown and never apprehended man forms the foundation of the book.  From that horrific event, the author describes her years of emotional numbness and denial until, when she finds herself finally ready, she returns to the scene of the crime to try to determine who her attacker was.  She very bravely shares her obsession with the search for her perpetrator, her relationships with people she meets along the way, her slow process of emotional recovery, and her own shortcomings, including her tendency to redundancy and endless rumination in her writing.  She very honestly describes what is was like for her to live her life as a victim while fighting the urge to behave like one.  Without naming it, she reveals the stubbornness in her personality which allowed her to survive the attack, recover her physical health, and then rebuild her sense of competence as a free agent to shape her own life.  And her account transcends the personal to examine the rudimentary state of law enforcement investigation in rural Oregon at the time, attitudes towards women in the urban Northeast US versus the rural setting of Oregon, the beginning of the crime victims movement, and other socially relevant themes. Others have mentioned here that it is a long book, and I agree that it is a bit too long and not as well edited as it might have been.  In her afterword she mentions that even at the current length it is substantially pared down from her original manuscript.  I am a great fan of writing as a mode of healing, and it seems pretty clear that this book served that purpose for Jentz.  And while that kind of writing does not always make for the most polished or literary prose, nor does it necessarily make for well-shaped plots or entirely satisfying character development, it still affords a wonderful privilege for the reader looking to witness another person's growth. 
