Brady Games is notorious for putting together somewhat haphazard game guides, and the FF12 guide for no exception. What we have here is a colossal guide for FF12, featuring almost all of the information that any player needs to complete the game. It includes lists of all of the loot drops in the game, strategies on how to beat all of the optional bosses, and advice on how to build your party so that the license board does not completely perplex you. However, the guide has many inherent flaws, which make it a little less than lovable.

To begin, the guide is chock full of spoiler information. Nowhere in the guide can you go and get the quick and simple advice that you might be seeking for a part of the game. Instead, the writers have chosen to fill almost every part of the walkthrough up with unnecessary information on the storyline scenes and spoilers that which makes playing the game a little boring. The guide could easily have had 50+ pages taken out of it if the writers had avoided spoiling most of the game's storyline. Instead however, it seems that they have (with Square-Enix' blessing) filled every part of the walkthrough up with spoiler content in order to add weight to the guide when the weight is superfluous.

Another hindrance on the guide are it's strange typographical errors. Throughout the guide the reader will find instances where references to other pages are turned to question marks. For example, when going over a side quest, the guide says to look to page (???) for more information. This is rather troublesome and it leaves the reader wondering if that page is even in the guide. 

The guide also suffers from bad organization. The maps of the dungeons are small and cumbersome, and while playing through an area, players will have to continuously flip back to the page with the map and squint their eyes to find out where the treasure chest they want is located. The guide also fails to mention where some of the "good treasure" drops are in each dungeon and the player will have to refer to the exhaustive bestiary section to find out where the monster they want is located and if they are capable of killing it.

Another lack of organization is the lack of an index. The guide is set up in such a way that in order to know everything, the player will have to start using it when they start the game. If they begin to read it during any other point, they will have to flip back and scrounge around before they might be able to find a piece of information that otherwise could have been found by using an index. 

The final blow to the FF12 guide however is the complete lack of explanation of how the treasure chest system works. There are tables however, that break down the frequencies of finding an item, but it requires trial and error before the player will find out exactly how to use the table. A through explanation should have been in order to explain this critical aspect of the game.

Despite these numerous errors, the guide still is offers much to players who are in need of help for completing the game. It offers great advice on how to defeat all of the bosses (and the previously mentioned optional bosses), it gives the location of every single item, and it has a very pretty presentation, chock full of screen shots and artwork. If a player is seeking this guide, the best advice would be to locate the limited edition version of it, as it comes in a hard cover case and has an extra "art book" that comes with it
