I read entirely too much. Since I do read so much I'm always looking for new authors.  When I found this book in my local library I was quite pleased.  The recommendations from Jacqueline Carey were great.  My local, small-town library has a rating system for each book, when you're finished reading you can write a recommendation to read the book or to burn it.  So when I got home with my four book selections the first thing I did was read the recommendations in the back.  Melusine was the only book I chose with actual bad reviews.

Indifferent:
"Good story poorly written"
Don't Bother:
"The narrative and vocarulary makes me want to shoot myself"

After reading these I became even more intrigued, and rightly so.  I picked up the book right away and started reading.  I will admit that the first few sections of Mildmay were almost painful to me (sorry, but being raised in a "comfortable" Wisconsin home causes me to gnash my teeth and worse at the sound and sight of poor language use).  As I was reading I found a couple of post-it notes in the book, more little sarcastically smarmy feelings about the book from "Don't Bother."  I would just like to say that if I ever see another purple post-it note in a book again I will automatically ignore it, because I don't bother listening to people who are too good to read a book at least halfway through.  Since the post-its were only through the first chapter, I'm fairly sure that didn't happen.

Now, to examine the book more closely, I believe that both of the comments were wrong since the book really was well written.  All of the grammar was impeccable as was the structure, if you like that sort of thing.  To me, this book was a perfect cross between the writings of Jacqueline Carey and Stephen R. Donaldson.  The book was good enough that I stayed up until 4 am to finish it.

The biggest problem I had with the book (once I got entrapped in the original storyline) was the lack of a glossary.  The introduction didn't explain enough information.  Another problem I had started to occur the last few pages.  The author wrote in first person throughout the book which was a nice change of pace (and why it reminded me of Carey), but with two protagonists the switching between characters at the end caused me some confusion.  The constant Felix and Mildmay narration and the constant switching between the two characters as the main voice were befuddling, especially with the overuse of he instead of names.

My final problem with the book was the loss of characters.  The loss of Gideon, Mavortian, and Bernard into thin space was not something I'm happy about.  Also, the ghosts didn't seem to be developed enough, and there wasn't enough information about what happened to Malkar.  On the other hand Ginerva was talked about until death was too kind for her.

The protagonists were remarkably well developed, as was their interaction with everyone around them.  It seemed that Mildmay let go of people too easily, but that fit his personality.  I liked the scenes in which Felix was insane, although there were too many of them
