Wireless Hacks (2nd Edition) - Tips & Tools for Building, Extending, and Securing Your Network by Rob Flickenger & Roger Weeks is one of those book that will have different levels of appeal to each reader based on factors like operating system, technical expertise, and other various items...

Contents:  Bluetooth, Mobile Phones, and GPS; Network Discovery and Monitoring; Wireless Security; Hardware Hacks; Software Hacks; Do-It-Yourself Antennas; Wireless Network Design; Wireless Standards; Wireless Hardware Guide; Index

As all books in the Hacks series, this title contains a number of tips and tricks that you can explore to enhance your experience in the given subject matter.  In this case, it's wireless networking.  The book seems to cover a very wide range of topics and operating systems, along with a wide array of hack complexity.  Rather than concentrate on a single OS like Windows, the authors cover Windows, Mac, *and* Linux on a number of the hacks.  In fact, without counting to be sure, it almost seems like Linux is a bit more predominate than the other two.  That's probably understandable, as trying to get Linux to work with things like Bluetooth isn't as "out of the box" as it might be with Windows or Macs.  You might also find parts of the book not applicable to your situation, like if you don't have Bluetooth on your phone.  Of course, if you *do* have Bluetooth, then you've got some new toys to play with.  My personal favorite section was the Do-It-Yourself Antennas chapter, as they have some good information in there on how to improve your reception and your broadcast focus.  Since my access point is in the basement and my son's computer is two floors up, I could benefit from a homebrew reflector...

Normally I'm willing to recommend a Hacks title with no caveats.  In this case, I think a potential reader needs to be a bit cautious.  Don't count on nearly all the hacks to be of interest.  You'll either be running the wrong OS, or you'll not be very adept with a soldiering iron.  Conversely, all it takes is one or two good new tricks to make a book worthwhile.  You could well find those gems in here, but you'll have to look a little harder than normal..
