I have been a fan of J.A. Jance since I met her in a bookstore browsing through the mystery section. She convinced me to try one of her books, which I did, and loved it. She had also told me that she would soon start a new series - that was many years ago and I've been enthralled with each new book since the Joanna Brady series began. These books usually leave you turning pages as fast as you can read, but this one wasn't quite that captivating. Don't get me wrong, it was still very good, just not the excellence I've come to expect from Jance's writing. 

This is the ninth novel featuring Joanna Brady, a tough Arizona sheriff who enchants her way into the reader's hearts. In the last novel, Devil's Claw we leave Joanna as she's honeymooning with her new husband Butch, after having her home destroyed by a maniac. Paradise Lost picks up shortly thereafter. 

Joanna is once again caught in the struggle to maintain balance between being sheriff, being a new wife, and being a mother to a 12-year-old. While Joanna and Butch are at a sheriff's conference across the state, Joanna's daughter, Jenny, goes on a Girl Scout campout. Jenny and another girl, Dora Matthews, sneak off after lights out only to find trouble in a big way. They stumble across a dead body. Because the girls were breaking rules, they are sent back to Bisbee while the sheriff's department investigates this murder in Apache Pass. 

When Dora Matthews, turns up dead the next day, Joanna is worried about Jenny's safety and the balance between the various hats she wears comes tumbling down around her. Added to this second murder, is a third murder - the body of the prime suspect in the first murder turns up. Three deaths in a matter of four days are more than Bisbee has ever seen and it's up to Joanna to help solve them. 

The end of Paradise Lost is predictable and not one of the better suspenseful conclusions that Jance has created in the past. J.A. Jance has always tied up the loose ends, but this time she leaves one flapping in the gentle Arizona breeze. The subplot involving a series of carjackings is never fully developed and leaves much to be desired by the reader. She eludes to this subplot several times, but there is no meat to it and nothing ever comes of it - no tie in to the murders, no interesting side journey, just a passing mention every once in a while. 

And a low point in this book was Joanna's wavering attitude towards her overbearing mother, Eleanor. She finds neutral ground and "understands" her mother. I didn't buy it - it was too passe for me. Joanna wouldn't buy into the poor, poor me bit, the martyrdom, that her mother is excellent at portraying. But this time she does and it is very anti-climatic - I wanted a good, old fashioned tongue lashing that we've come to expect when these two clash. 

The one thing that is decided in this book is Joanna Brady will run for reelection as Cochise County Sheriff. I'm sure the next book in this series will encompass the campaigning and how it affects Butch and Jenny. It should be interesting.
