In this age, when we are talking about crossing cultural boundaries and political differences, achieving economic equality and as such trying to establish one identity for ourselves, the book "Six Degrees : The science of a connected age" seems to be an interesting one. The author Dancan J. Watts have tried to fortify the fact that we already belong to the same social network and that we are already connected to each other, a realization to lead us more towards our goal of globalization.

We have definitely heard people saying that it is a small world and even uttered the sentence ourselves. Watts with his crisp writing and enough facts of groundbreaking experiments has substantiated the phenomenon of a connected age. Starting with an approach of Leonhard Eular to observe network as a mathematical object, watts shifts his focus to social psychologist perspective to view the same network. All over the book he has played with Stanley Milgram's hypothesis that `the world, viewed as an enormous network of social acquaintance, was in a certain sense "small"; that is any one person in the world could be reached through a network of friends in a only few steps'. If so, we - the inhabitants of world are indeed the members of a very large family. The families, organizations, groups of friends are all interconnected networks of the global network. 

In this age of indifference, it is hard to observe the social bonding. But it again seems possible when Watts puts forward Mark Granovetter's idea of social coordination. According to Granovetter, social coordination does not arise from densely interlocking "strong ties". In practical almost all our social activities are contributed profoundly from our casual acquaintances.  At this point we start realizing the bondage we have amongst us, representatives of different group, cult, race; holders of formal, informal and even no relationship to each other; similar or quite opposite to each other, but strangely enough, linked to each other.

Our links to each other set us in a system where we are strong and at the same time vulnerable to epidemics and as such failure. We have to share the failures or sufferings of an element or individual belonging to our social network by default, as much as we are sharing success. As on 11th September 2001, people had to share the misery of a political attack for being a part of the system, even though they had no direct contribution on the event. At the same time whole system recovered quickly from a massive breakdown, as it kept itself going on each other's strength , even if little was left behind. 

In a social network people find their similarities even from differences, as indicated by watts "we have multiple independent ways of being alike". Regardless of our position in an organization, in a family, on the web, in a nation or in the world, we can sort out ways to link ourselves, to share success, to share pain. Watts clearly portrays this notion of belongingness in his book "Six Degrees".
