Paul Fussell draws an exceedingly thin line between history and literary criticism in his telling how the Great War will endure modern memory from the British perspective. Fussell analyzes a vast array of poetry, memoirs, and prose-written both during and after the war-to convey the experiences and emotions of British officers and men who took part in such horrible battles as: the Somme, Ypres, and Passchendaele. Fussell illustrates how the basic elements of literature such as irony, metaphor, and myth appear throughout the literary works of Thomas Hardy, Seigfried Sassoon and Robert Graves to name a few. Fussell is not out to claim that truth is stranger than fiction, however. On the contrary, he argues that fiction closely parallels truth and, it is these literary devises that have ingrained the memory of the Great War into our consciousness. Many believe that the Great War sparked the advent of modernism, and that the lives of a whole generation of youth that came of age during that war was forever changed. Fussell attempts to prove that nowhere is this more apparent than in the British literature published in the years following World War I. Fussell chose primarily British literature for his study. This is not merely an attempt to narrow the focus of his study, but rather an Anglophilic obsession for the British classical literary tradition at the expense of other combatants; the French, Germans, and to a lesser degree, the Americans. Fussell levels a number of harsh criticisms at American writers, particularly Earnest Hemingway, claiming they existed in a literary vacuum "devoid of a Chaucer, a Spencer, a Shakespeare."  Fussell points out that, just prior to World War I, England had undergone a literary surge that had transcended existing class structures. Though organized reading groups at Workman's institutes and the Home Reading Union those of modest origins, it was hoped, would rise in class standing. According to Fussell, no effort was spared. Devouring the best the British had to offer, the author contends that the British population as a whole became "not merely literate but vigorously literary." Unfortunately, Fussell fails to mention the inclusion of women in this literary upsurge as well as barely mentioning women writers, if at all. Fussell analyzes and interprets the literature of the Great War with surgical precision. The author gives some fine examples of wartime poetry, especially the works of Seigfried Sassoon and Robert Graves. Fussell plays particular attention to the element of irony, its construction of themes and its influence on future generations of wartime writers. As Fussell points out, "the Great War was more ironic than any other in that its beginnings were more innocent." The British went to war in a gentlemanly and sporting manner even going so far as to kick a football as they advanced towards the enemy trenches. Fussell emphasizes the impact these seemingly insignificant events fuelled by irony have on one's memory, however, fails to present any evidence other than the literature itself. The point is that Fussell's strength lies in literary theory, not history. All too often, the author engages in broad generalizations when he steps out of his area of expertise (literary criticism). Yet this is one of the first works to apply literary criticism to an historical even, thus it enjoys classic status
