Susan Higginbotham's big and beautiful novel traces the story of Eleanor de Clare (born 1292), granddaughter and niece of kings, who was married to one of the most notorious men in medieval England - Hugh le Despenser, pirate and extortionist, and almost certainly the lover of Eleanor's uncle, King Edward II.  Eleanor was heavily involved in the fascinating events of these supremely turbulent times.  

What I loved about the novel most is how rounded and sympathetic the characters are - the author must have put a huge amount of work into the character development, and it really shows.  These people are living, breathing creations you can feel great affection for, as the author clearly does.  I've read a lot of novels on Edward II, who's one of my favourite people in history, and I'm so sick of the way he's often portrayed, as a weakling, a coward, a pervert.  Sounds ridiculous, I know, but I really felt like crying with gratitude when I saw how sympathetically he's portrayed here.  Edward's numerous faults and mistakes are not glossed over, but become part of a real, vivid individual you can believe in.  The same for Hugh and Eleanor - Hugh's appalling behaviour, though reprehensible, at least becomes understandable here, and Eleanor comes across as a real tough cookie, who survived imprisonment, disgrace, the hideous death of her husband, the loss of several children, and numerous other tragic events.  You really find yourself rooting for her, and hoping that things will turn out well for her.

Despite my love for Edward, I think my favourite part of the novel is the later part, after 1330, when Eleanor and Hugh's children take centre stage.  I've never seen a novel which features the younger Despensers as characters, and it was great.  Susan's enormous affection for them comes out on every page, and I found myself longing for more!  (Hint, hint! :)

Unlike other historical novels I've read, where the authors seem to think that describing the setting in enormous detail and having cardboard cutouts walk through it is somehow meant to be compelling, here the characters are firmly at the forefront.  Exactly what I like in a novel.

For readers unfamiliar with the characters, there's a list at the beginning which will be helpful to keep them all straight in your head.  It could be confusing as so many of the characters have the same names (almost all the women in England at this time seemed to be called Eleanor, Margaret or Joan) but Susan manages to keep them all clear.  Another feature I especially liked was after the end of the novel, where a few pages describe what happened to the surviving characters, historically.

This novel, like the historical times it describes, has everything you could wish for: love, hatred, passion, jealousy, loyalty, betrayal, revenge, hideous executions....!  For anyone interested in medieval history, I recommend this novel highly.  For anyone not interested in medieval history: you will be, after you've read this
