While the text is a bit dated-- Allen wrote in the late 1880s-- it is a fantastic book for people interested in the history of the names of the stars. It also includes thousands of entries for stars that are no longer so well-known by name. (How many people can name the "pointers" in the Big Dipper, for example?)

The only downside is that anyone who reads it had better have at least a basic grasp of the classical Greek alphabet. To be fair, when Allen wrote this book most college-educated people had exactly that, and Latin besides. So sometimes he seems to assume that everyone can read Greek and leaves it at that (an edition with a set of transliterations would be most helpful). 

But after some struggle with learning the Greek alphabet (I couldn't really sight-read it), I found this to be a hugely rewarding book. 

I'd tell people to just start with the constellations they know, as the book is organized by constellation. For anyone who isn't already an astronomy buff, the stars that have been moved from one constellation to another (as a result of the International Astronomical Union finally "fixing" the boundaries in 1930) to be less of a problem than it might be--most stars that had that happen are pretty faint to begin with. And anyone familiar enough to even know that the boundaries have changed will have no trouble locating such stars in the sky by their coordinates and Flamsteed numbers. 

Another thing: Allen's scholarship, while very good, also suffers a bit from 100 years worth of archeological and ethnographic data that has been gathered since. But I only caught the discrepancies in areas I had happened to read about before--and even then it took a bit of digging to see why something didn't "feel" right. But unless you are a classical scholar or expert on the Middle East's ancient history it won't matter much. 

Yet what I liked best about it was the prose. It is a wonderful example of that musty old style that reminds one of (mythical, perhaps) days when an Oxford don could study a chosen field, losing himself in its beauty and detail. Allen sounds every inch the pedant, and I loved that. It is like reading some of the better work of Arthur Conan Doyle, or H.G. Wells, or Verne. It brings one back to a time when the pace was a bit slower. That alone makes this a worthwhile read. 

