This book is worth to read. You will find plenty of interesting ideas and things u can use in u life, even if u are not manager and is not planning to be. U can advance to some level by reviewing and using some clear techniques.
I have put four stars for the follows reasons. First is obvious this book is advertisement regardless of intended or not and it is more fiction then science. Most of the time u should read between lines that still have a lot of information. Second In this book most of the time leader means manager and there is bunch of correction u should make uself. Then u should adjust on political correctness and American mentality. This is ideal explanation because not all the managers what to achieve great results. Most managers want to achieve highest visibility, career grow-up and safety future (Means safe their "careers" in case of any trouble) or simple desire not to be responsible of any thing while maintaining increasing income. (For samples look in investor management problems.) There is nothing wrong with The next problem they are using classical pair leader (manager) - subordinate. What about cases when subordinate has great skills and abilities or bigger mental emphasis? What is about interaction between leader and not his team like customer that inspire the vendor company to deliver? No research is here. Ask any person that familiar with statistic about the sampling problem. People who open the successful company are already natural leaders. By statistic 60% of all companies failed. Even bad companies have advantage they alive. It is obvious 150% bias.  Let me rephrase on of the idea in this book in the other words: If you keep training, you will beat Tiger Woods in golf. Good luck here. When everybody knows something, it stops successfully works. It is a well-known problem in the world that when everybody knows something it stops successfully works. You know that u boss let say "democratic" 
Plenty of management methods was not included like "The favorite" method of management. 
A last world is strictly my opinion: The most important thing that all leaders should do is decision-making regardless of how. If u read any example in this book, you will notice it.  The primal leadership is more about execution advices
