 Kimberly Richards, daughter of the Earl of Amburough is still mourning her mother when her father decides to wed again-and his bride-to-be makes it clear she wants Kimberly out of the way. So it's off to the altar for Kimber-as soon as a bridegroom can be found. The only requirement seems to be that he not be a Scot-Kimberly's father has even less love for Scots than he seems to have for his own daughter.

Lachlan MacGregor, Laird of Clan MacGregor must seek a rich bride for the betterment of his clan. The gathering he's been invited to has plenty of such women-but he's still enamored of his host's wife (whom he didn't know WAS his host's wife, the Duchess of Wrothston from Man of My Dreams) from the time he tried to kidnap her from the Duke (Devlin). He doesn't even notice Kimberly-in THAT way-because they get off on the wrong foot and he's convinced that she's impossible-although when he calls her a shrew, the ensuing silence does make him feel a bit guilty.

This IS my favorite of Lindsey's books. I like-no love-the character of Duncan, and have since he was first introduced in Man of My Dreams. He's a bit of a scalawag-quite a bit, actually *G*-and he's irresistible. Kimberly's meetings with Duncan always seem to be at the wrong time and in the wrong circumstances-and he's always disturbing her sleep.

First, at the inn she stops at (where she meets him in the hall the next morning and takes his head off) on her way to the Wrothston's home, then at the Wrothston's home itself-and this while she's trying desperately to get some rest because she is ill. Duncan's ill-judged attempt at an apology the next morning only exacerbates their mutual dislike as Kimberly is much less than gracious about it.

Watching as Kimberly, sporting a red nose and not very attractive gowns, and Duncan, the quintessential rogue and ladies man, wrangle and bicker their way toward true love makes this one of Lindsey's more entertaining stories-she does do Scots rather well. Also, cranky women. *G* Highly recommended.

Reviewed by Lee M

 

Copyright © 2006 CK2S Kwips and Kritiques. All rights reserved
