"The Bridge Across Forever" is a reality show brought to you in the form of a book and a writer's determined effort to provide hope to the hopeless and to teach you never to stop believing in magic.  The premise of the book is wonderful, unfortunately it picks up on a very high note and quickly spirals into self-absorbed prose that almost comes across as a self-help book as opposed to a novel.  For that reason and for the smug all-knowing elusive character that is Richard Bach at different stages of his life, I give this book four stars.

This is a story about a man named Richard Bach.  He is a passionate pilot and a brilliant writer and a lost soul searching for his ever-elusive soul mate.  He is stubborn and uncompromising and abandoned in his ways.  He moves like a nomad allowing his desires to act as his compass and his airplanes to follow quick suit.  His quest to find a soul mate that fits his unyielding mold and is the perfect combination of a handful of women is almost his unconscious means of running away from commitment.  He possesses all the tell-tale traits and almost throws away the best thing that ever happened to him as his phobia attempts to wreak havoc and play the role of disruption.

The story is essentially very real - creating a place in the real world for fantasy and magic. I was drawn from the very first page --- "We think, sometimes, there's not a dragon left.  Not one brave knight, not a single princess gliding through secret forests, enchanting deer and butterflies with her smile."  Such is life today.  Only these mystical characters appear in our lives in disguised forms.  Reading about Richard's life and his quest to find his soul mate was actually more enjoyable before he actually did find her...but only because the book suddenly dove into a somewhat excruciating philosophy lesson given by Richard's many alter ego's and Leslie's know-it-all attitude and unending series of metaphors and life lessons on love.

The story could have had far more impact without dragging on as it did.  If I had to sum up the book into one major learning it would be as follows: perfection is not a constant.  It is a moving target and a relative term that takes on a different shape and form for every person.  In simple terms, the moral of the story is: don't compromise and don't lose faith.  Stay true to who you are, let fate take its course and abandon all thoughts of perfection...it is an unachievable superlative, always trumped by the moving cogs of life.  Destiny will find you where you least expect it to.  Just be. And your heart and mind will soar. 
