There are two things that are apt to happen upon reading The Colorado Kid, the latest outing by legendary horror writer Stephen King.  In fact, there are apt to be more than a few things that happen after reading the author's latest yarn, ayuh, and a fascinating yarn it is.  King remains an underrated contemporary master of storytelling and if there is any question as to whether his talent has waned over the years after producing nearly 50 novels, including the unforgettable Carrie, The Shining, Cujo and The Stand, that query is properly answered here.

What is often forgotten about King, despite the fact that he has singlehandedly changed and saved the direction of contemporary horror, is that sans horror he is an excellent storyteller.  In The Colorado Kid, King lends his talents to a line of hard case crime pulp fiction novels issued recently by Dorchester Publishing, which include other authors such as Richard Aleas (Little Girl Lost), Max Phillips (Fade to Blonde) and Wade Miller (Touch of Evil).  They are softcover dime store novel sized books your father probably carried in his coat pocket, and are designed to look like such with their Orbik drawn covers featuring sultry sirens and suspicious looking men in overcoats.

Kid is the story of two old newspapermen from Maine who spend one afternoon telling their intern about a mystery involving a man who was found dead on a beach back in 1980.  Nearly twenty-six years later the men tell the story in relish, but the more they explain to the inquisitive intern the less she understands.  What baffles both the intern and the reader is that nothing makes sense, including why the man was on the beach, where he was from, what he was doing in Maine, how he got to a remote region of Maine as quickly as he did, and last but not least, was he murdered.  	

The audience is apt to be confounded as King teases and rivets the reader to such an intriguing tale, all the while egging them on to solve the mystery before the end of the book.  With King's talent for relaying New England dialogue, the tale comes off as comfortably as a fireside ghost story, and the reader is likely not to get enough in turning this case six ways to Sunday in order to solve it.  What is also apt to happen is that the reader is likely to take issue with how the author resolves the matter, but that's neither here nor there as the issue is the mystery itself.
	
King's protagonists, Dave and Vince, are old fogeys we've seen in previous works by this author, in particular The Storm of the Century, and his ingenue Stephanie is a variation on his previous heroines.  All the same this short novel is a gem and King as comfortable and reliable as a favorite pair of shoes, taking us on a journey through not only an intriguing mystery but also once again the way of life of the New Englander, who keep secrets to themselves, say the word fair as fay-yuh, and the word ayuh as if a variation on the words Oh, yeah!
