We read THE POWER AND THE GLORY by Graham Greene aloud, and it is the ninth book by Greene I have read. 

It's not surprising that Greene (1904-1991) would have an existential slant to his work, not just as a 20th-century writer, but also as a man who suffered depression and who also attempted suicide as a young man. Throughout his life, he traveled and lived in regions of conflict related to government and military oppression. Greene's existentialism is specifically Catholic (he converted after becoming involved with the woman who would become his wife, who was herself a devout Catholic). Greene's Catholicism is an examined one, and his 1938 travels in Mexico and his horror at the persecution of the religious there informed two of his books, THE POWER AND THE GLORY and "The Lawless Roads." 

In THE POWER AND THE GLORY, the reader follows a nameless priest who is trying to stay in a state of Mexico that has exiled and/or killed all the priests after a communist take-over of the local government. The government also forces one priest, Padre Jos, to marry. The remaining priest is always just ahead of the military officers who want to kill him, and his circumstances become more and more miserable. Though he tries to leave on occasion, he is pulled back by his sense of duty as a priest to those who maintain their religious lives after the political upheaval in their state.

In the narrative of journey, this is a quintessential existential novel. The priest is driven by circumstances beyond his control into instability, incredible misery, and doubt, and is never able to rest. Force, power and oppression are issues with Greene, and in this book Greene is focusing on the theme of how idealism and reality conflict. The priest we follow offers a meaningful vision of a religious vocation in a real person, flawed, broken, imperfect, yet endowed with -- or receiving of -- the gifts his vows bring him. Even though he has broken his vows, he has a belief that God has not broken his, that the priest still, through his faith, has blessings to offer the people. The reality of this love and belief vs. the idealized portraits of saints and martyrs that appear throughout the narrative is much more moving and compelling. 

The power of resistance the book presents, the quiet, daily life of rebellion through religious or personal beliefs is compelling. And like other Greene novels, the later beneficial, and loving, effects of the efforts that the characters think are meaningless resonates deeply for the reader long after the book has been read.

THE POWER AND THE GLORY was a big success, both commercially and critically, but it was met with anger and disapproval by the Catholic Church, which is understandable given the portrayal of the priest that Greene provides. But it is a truly powerful view of the outcomes of love and faith, with a beautiful and moving "Greenian" ending. I recommend it
