Everything Bad is Good for You  is Steven Berlin Johnson's attempt to argue against the popular consensus that certain forms of entertainment (video games, television, etc.) negatively influence the consumers.  He addresses concerns that television and nintendo dull intellectual development, as well as concerns that violent entertainment lead to violent behavior.  

First off, let it be known that I play video games.  I watch T.V.  I want Steven Johnson to be right.  In fact, I chose to read his book largely to try to justify, perhaps even glorify my hobbies.  However, Johnson falls a bit short of what the title leads you to expect.  For example, he attempts to attribute the gradual rise in average IQ scores over the years to increasingly complicated television programming and cognitively challenging video games.  Although there may be some link between IQ and certain media, Johnson never provides a convincing argument that increasingly complicated media contribute to the gradual increase in average IQ scores.

I still liked the book, though.  Although Johnson doesn't exactly prove that the these "bad" things are "good for you", he does successfully show that the popular view of television, video games, and the like, do not reflect the reality of the situation.  Steven Johnson shows that violent crimes have drastically decrease over the past decade or so.  He goes on to argue that, even if violent entertainment does have some sort of negative impact on its audience, that effect is trivial compared to much larger factors.  Additionally, the gradual increase in average IQ scores shows that, even if T.V. and video games do have some sort of dumbing effect, that effect is swallowed up by larger factors.

Basically, a lot of people will get out of this book exactly what they want.  Those who view popular media as detrimental will think Johnson is advocating increased video game playing and television watching and will therefore summarily dismiss it.  Those who don't will view it as a justification for increased consumption of video games and T.V.  I recommend the book, especially if you find the very idea of the book repugnant, but I wouldn't change my life over it.
