`Griffin & Sabine', `Sabine's Notebook', and `The Golden Mean' by illustrator, writer, and artist, Nick Bantock form a trilogy of  unusual chapters in an interactive graphic novella, similar to the genre well-known to children from `pop-up' books. In fact, in Mr. Bantock's biographical sketch on the rear flyleaf, he is credited as the author of popup books.

The story, spread across the three volumes, neatly packaged in a very attractive slipcase with artwork from the cover of the first volume, is composed of a correspondence between a naturalist's artist and postage stamp illustrator, Sabine Strohem, and the owner of a one man postcard design studio, Griffin Moss.

As depicted in the flyleaf of the first volume, Ms. Strohem lives on a very small and, I believe, fictional chain of islands in the South Pacific, somewhere near the Solomon Islands. Mr. Moss lives in the middle of London. The basis of the ingeniously crafted correspondence between the two is based on the fact that both are talented and imaginative graphic artists who also happen to work in `the postal medium'. In fact, one might venture a subtitle of the series as `A Novella in Postage'.

The whole story is set off when Sabine begins, as a teenager, to have visions of illustrations in the act of their being created. Her visions see only the illustration and not the artist or even the artist's hand. After several years, she identifies the artist by spotting his work in a book of postcard illustrations. Over the course of a long correspondence on both postcards and two page letters, the two appear to fall in love. The first volume, `Griffin & Sabine' ends with the disappearance of Griffin on the event of Sabine's stating that she is coming to see him in London.

I recall seeing the single first volume in bookstores when it was first published and it is possible the author did not originally intend this to be a trilogy. While the end of the first volume is mysterious, it doesn't leave a lot of room for an obvious start of a second installment in a series. It leaves us with the possible conclusion that Sabine was totally a creation of Griffin's very depressed personality and that Griffin alone created the whole correspondence. This conclusion is supported by the last statement in the book that says that all pieces of both sides of the correspondence were found pinned to the ceiling of Griffin Moss' studio.

The second volume, `Sabine's Notebook' brings Sabine to Griffin's London apartment while Griffin has embarked upon an around the world journey which takes him to the Solomons, a short hop from Sabine's home, but circumstances keep him from visiting the small island chain itself, contributing to the idea that this location is fictional even within the context of the story. The second volume ends with the two principle characters missing one another by a hair again, as Griffin returns to London upon Sabine's returning to the islands, leaving no trace of her visit.

The third volume introduces the only other `speaking character' into the mix. This European journalist / scholar Victor Frolatti arrives on Sabine's island and begins making inquiries into the psychic ability demonstrated by Sabine. He quickly becomes an irritation and something of a distraction that also tends to upset the neat symmetry of the correspondence up to this time. The story also does not entirely resolve this character that seems to be introduced simply to create a reason for the joint disappearance of both Griffin and Sabine.

I will not relay the facts or my interpretation of the facts in this concluding volume, `The Golden Mean', as the facts are so vague that I can easily misinterpret what I am reading, and I would not want to risk spoiling your pleasure at reading it yourself.

To my mind, there are three components to this work. First, there is the story, about as long as a modest novella. I can read the whole thing in about 90 minutes. Not even as long as, for example, the famous novellas `Death in Venice' or `Heart of Darkness'. The literary quality of the writing is fair. It is certainly at a much higher level than your average comic graphic novel, but it is not quite on the same level as Thomas Mann or Joseph Conrad. If the text were to appear without the art, I doubt if the work would generate much comment in serious reviews.

Second, there is the graphic art. To a great extent, the circumstances of the principle characters are set up specifically to provide the framework for some very interesting art that walks that thin line between commercial illustration and fine art. The artwork is closest to the collage genre, transmuted onto the printed page by the influence of the pop-up book. I am less well equipped to evaluate graphic art than I am to evaluate the written word, but I believe the graphic art is superior to the writing.

Third, there is the synergy between the writing and the graphics which draws in the reader, especially with the device of the full page letters, artfully presented in envelopes within the book which one must open and read as if one were opening a genuine post. This third aspect of the book may be the best. While I am pleasantly surprised at the modest cost of each individual volume, I am almost sorry that the author and publisher could not have gone one more step and produced an edition with real stamps and real postcards in addition to the real envelopes. Using a variety of different paper textures would have enhanced the whole experience, but I am sure this would have also tripled the price of the books.

For the same price, I think three good DVDS of movies may be more value for the money, but if you really like graphic art, you don't want to miss these works.
