This exceptional fact-based novel of the Bubonic Plague epidemic of 1666 is narrated by 18 year-old widowed mother, Anna Frith, house servant of the local rector, Michael Mompellion. While lodging with Anna and her two young sons, George Viccars, a journeyman tailor, earns a place in her heart (and eventually in her bed) due to the great rapport he has with them.  He soon shows symptoms of the Plague, pus filled bacteria-laden boils forming at his lymph nodes in conjunction with a fever, which burst and become necrotic.  Viccars, seemingly aware of the cause, insists that his things be burned after his death.  Instead, his customers collect their items of clothing, thereby helping to spread the disease (which was determined in 1898 to be transmitted through fleas on infected rats in 90% of cases). Mompellion, in proposing the quarantine during a sermon says, "Greater love hath no man than this, that he lay down his life for a friend," and suggested that "the boundary of this village become our whole world." Of the 300 villagers, all but one family agree to and stay. By the time it has run its course, over a year has gone by and two thirds of the villagers have perished.

The cast of characters includes a woman and her aunt who practice homeopathic medicine and are suspected by some villagers of being  witches (because of the incantations they employ in conjunction with their herbal remedies), Anna's alcoholic depraved father, an orphan girl trying to retain the rights to her dead family's mine, and a mysterious ghost.  The story follows the happenings in the village, secrets being revealed along the way.  Geraldine Brooks seems genuinely skilled at keeping to the spirit of the time during which the novel is set, employing the use of dozens of words that have since been abandoned or superceded.  Additionally, she convincingly employs the use of religious themes and beliefs, even though her own are secular.  Year of Wonders is a uniquely interesting and believable story of the Plague.
