Interestingly, I found this by searching on "ethics + belief" out of pure curiosity.  Boy did I get more than I expected. Here is an illuminating presentation of important philosophical issues regarding belief.  Truly one of the most enlightening books I've read.  The two classic essays are a joy to read in their own right, I find myself re-reading the Clifford piece every few months.  With apologies to Mr. Burger I believe it to be the most incisive and clearly written essay I've read, having only previously read the first few paragraphs of it (excerpted somewhere) prior to finding it in this collection. I found the full text to be remarkable.  Mr. Burgers' own analysis in his answer to James' response to Clifford is itself carefully reasoned and well stated.  I appreciate the author/editor's enabling me to clarify some things I suspected about the morality of belief and the defense of belief  - for so small a price and so short a time.  For instance, should I fault myself for belief in magic healing powers of crystals?  In fact, is my belief moral?  Previously I was somewhat given to James' view, that it is up to me to believe what I want to believe.  But can the morality associated with this kind of thinking really be separated from daily actions?  And what is the difference between an irrational belief in crystal power, belief in the existence of Zeus, Apollo, or yes, any supernatural entity -- or equally important, decisions regarding everyday issues such as which child spilled the juice when I wasn't looking? As a juror, is it moral for me to decide guilt or innocence based on what I want the outcome to be, or even by reference to a related belief (e.g., the accused is from Virginia and all Virginians are good people)? Are there separate rules for believing depending on the circumstances?  Clifford presents a powerful analysis and argument on these issues and supports his conclusion that it is immoral to believe without evidence with careful reasoning and discussion of hypothetical events. In his essay, James attempts to defuse Clifford in his rationalization of his own religious belief.  Burgers' analysis carefully and completely demonstrates the problematic weaknesses in James' argument.  After reading the last word I was left to wonder why this clear and logical examination came so late.  The contents of this short book should be fascinating to anyone interested in issues of belief in gods, philosophy, morality or even just clear thinking
