Once in awhile, you run across a book that's like coming home, that places you in a persona and setting that is hazily familiar.  Mary Webb's Precious Bane does that for me.  Set in rural England in the early 19th century, it tells the story of Prudence Sarn, a young woman whose mother encountered a hare while she was pregnant with Prue.  The baby was born with a harelip.
	For those who knew her, it meant that Prue would never marry--what man, after all, would want to kiss her?  For those who did not know her, it was an excuse to make up tales that she "roamed the country at night in the body of a hare" and that she could curse with a look.  For Prue, it was reason to hide from the man she loved, the weaver Kester Woodseaves.
	Prue worked like a slave for her brother Gideon's dream of wealth and power in exchange for his promise of money to have her affliction cured when they were rich.  But Prue took moments to appreciate the lilies on the lake's edge, the molting of the dragonflies, and the heady scent of apples in the attic where she retreated to write in her diary.
	Mary Webb (1881-1927) lived most of her life in Shropshire County, England, where she and her father wandered the hills and lanes, a pastime she continued after he died.  Later, Webb--who was also a poet--enhanced her stories with the naturalism and mysticism she learned from her father and the land.
	Shropshire English is heavily influenced by the Welsh language, creating a lively and colorful dialect that Webb has distilled in her novels.  It takes some getting used to, but once you catch the rhythm, it's hard to let go.  Webb's prose will sing in your mind days after the book is closed.
	She also used local traditions such as telling the bees when someone has died, and the employment of a Sin Eater, who, for a fee, consumes the sins of the dead person in a glass of wine and a crust of bread.  When Gideon's and Prue's father died, Gideon agreed to eat the sins of his father if his mother, who was upset because her husband "had died in his wrath, with all his sins upon him," turned the farm over to him.
	But it was the people she met on her wanderings and trips to the market where she sold flowers and produce from her garden that proved Mary Webb's greatest resource.  Her novels are enriched by minor characters like Isaiah in Seven for a Secret, who said little but "Ha!"  That one syllable was enough to make him a wealthy farmer because people felt they had been found out and out of guilt gave him their best prices.  Sarah, the housekeeper in The House in Dormer Forest, broke the favorite china and vases belonging to whomever she was angry with.
	Mary Webb's protagonists make her novels shine.  Hazel Woodus in Gone to Earth seems more animal than human; she is as wild as her beloved Foxy.  Deborah Arden, in The Golden Arrow, loves deeply and totally with all her soul.   Robert Rideout, in Seven for a Secret, composes music and poetry while he herds sheep.  Prudence Sarn is Webb's greatest achievement as she brings the reader to care passionately about Prue .
	The novelist was able to draw from within herself to create Prue Sarn because she suffered most of her life from the facial disfigurement brought on by Grave's Disease.
	Precious Bane is a masterpiece.  Mary Webb's other novels do not reach that pinnacle--they are too didactic and sometimes simplistic, but they are well worth reading as they poetically explore love, passion, and social norms.
