  "The Hours", probably the most renowned book written by Michael Cunningham, was haunted by the presence of Virginia Woof. Besides being one of the characters in the three stories in this book, she was a sort of common thread connecting its plot: her lost battle against madness and melancholy was relived in a second story (taking place in the early fifties) about the troubled American housewife and in a first and more contemporary story  about a depressed poet infected with AIDS, who turns out to be  her son.
	Michael Cunningham's most recent book - "Specimen days" - consists of three stories again: "In the machine" takes place in the 19th century, in the dawn of the Industrial Age; the second is a modern-day story - "The children's crusade" - depicting the aftermath of September 11 and a new wave of terrorism;  "Like beauty", which sounds like a sci-fi story, happens in a distant future and in a wasted world. In Specimen days, there is a writer as a sort of intertextual reference. But, differently from "The hours", this writer is no longer a character in one of the stories. It is his style, his subject and even the soul of his writings that cuts across the whole structure of the book. But even when we identify Walt Whitman as this writer, we must be aware that the Whitman rebuild by Cunningham is not exactly the same poet celebrated by his patriotism and his pride of the greatness of North America. The Whitman in Specimen days, although he keeps his style and his voice, is a Whitman turned inside out by Cunningham along the three stories of his latest book.
	The United States remains a great and powerful nation, but "Specimen days" shows us how their greatness is founded on poverty, segregation and destruction. In this context, if America for Whitman was destined to reinvent the world and be a sort of emancipator of the human soul, the three stories of "Specimen days" show us how this project of freedom has failed. One of the most beautiful and touching passages in which we can find this Whitman turned inside out is in the second story of Cunningham's latest book when a woman who breeds terrorist children justifies her actions: 

"Look around. Do you see happiness? Do you see joy? Americans have never been this prosperous, people have never been this safe, They've never lived so long, in such good health, ever, in the whole of history. To someone a hundred years ago, as recently as that, this world would seem like heaven itself... And look at us. We're so obese we need bigger cemetery plots. Our ten-year-olds are doing heroin, or they are murdering eight-years-olds, or both... We're bombing other countries simply because they make us nervous, and most of us not only couldn't find those countries on a map, we couldn't tell you which continent they're on. Traces of the fire retardant we put in upholstery and carpeting are starting to turns up in women's breast milk. So, tell me. Would you say this is working out? Does this seem to you like a story that wants to continue?" (p. 171).

	
	The recent past mentioned here is the time when the first story of "Specimen days" occurs and Walt Whitman's time as well. The wonders of a new world chanted by this American poet are very different from the sad realities of today's world, which, in spite of all the progress conquered along a century, became worse and worse. And if we consider that the third story of "Specimen days" happens far beyond our time and in a completely destroyed world, we realize that the future imagined by Whitman will be less and less possible. 
	Nevertheless, when Cunningham plays Whitman against Whitman it is not to criticize this controversial poet or even his vision of America. It is to show us that if Americans want to deserve the greatness chanted by Whitman, they must change their way of life, their way of seeing American progress and they must cooperate with their partners and even their enemies. Without these changes, it is not Whitman's poetry that is romantic, naïve or even false, but it is North America that, in spite of its power, reveals how fragile a strong nation can be. 
	Some critics have argued that Specimen days is not as good as the other books written by Michael Cunningham. In my opinion, it is a fact that the first two stories of this book are better than the third one; and "Specimen days" looks more fragmented than "The hours" or even "Flesh and blood" or "A home at the end of the world". But, if we take our puzzling times and the power of Whitman's words into consideration, it is the most impressive book  written by Cunningham so far.
