Murray begins his work by focusing his attention on Billy Graham. He details Graham's ministry, how it was developed, how it grew in the 50's and 60's, what Graham's intents where in this period of strong growth, and how, perhaps, Graham's lack of interest in a more thorough and well developed theological stance may have caused serious pit falls and divisions between evangelicals of that time frame.

I had a hard time trying to figure out if Murray was actually implying that Graham was the cause of evangelical division. However, it was quite clear that Murray was pointing out to his readers the things he believed were detrimental to Christian theology and Evangelicalism as a whole due to the things Graham espoused and did. I think many of Murray's concerns about Graham were warranted in light of Protestant Christian Evangelical theology.

From Graham, Murray focuses his attention of J.I. Packer. Packer, having a strong background within a Puritan mind set, and befriending Martin Lloyd-Jones, Murray was much more amiable in his handling of Packer's "shift." This "shift" in thinking, as Murray describes, was one from a less "accepting" of things outside of a Reformed Puritan mindset, to a more ready to accept others in the ecumenical movement, especially those who are Roman Catholic, mindset. However, I think Murray, in this work at least, fails to take into enough consideration that Packer is very much a part of the Church of England and Anglican. This is a strong feature which also in many ways "divided" Packer and Lloyd-Jones at certain theological crossroads. Nonetheless, Murray details what he thinks may have slowly moved Packer into a more ecumenical mindset. This is all detailed in chapter 4.

Branching out beyond Packer, Murray then details how and why he thinks the Anglicans gradually moved further and further away from any semblance of Evangelical thinking, and how that affected those evangelicals who were still involved in the Anglican Church. Murray's emphasis is on John Stott and his acceptance of David Jenkins (the Bishop of Durham in the 70's) remarks about the physical resurrection of Christ. Apparently, Jenkins, an Anglican, commented that the physical resurrection could be denied due to a lack of empirical evidence (historical verifiability) but still be a viable doctrine for the Church in what it communicates. Stott, as Murray demonstrates in this book, seemed to come out and embrace Jenkins's view on the resurrection in an attempt to maintain unity. It is here I think Murray has his strongest case, and it is here where I think Murray is perhaps getting at the obvious evidence as to why the Anglican denomination has moved into a more liberal ecumenical mindset and away from a more orthodox view of Christian theology.

From this point, Murray discusses the evangelical move away from the acceptance of the inerrancy of the Bible. He details certain ideas and writings from various evangelical theologians across several denominations and how these ideas and thoughts formed a type of moving away from inerrancy. 

A chapter is included on The Roman Catholic Church and the Anglican move toward Rome in the 60's which tapered off in the 70's, became liberal in the 80's to the point were even The Roman Catholic Church could not embrace Anglicanism. In this same chapter a lengthy discussion on the ECT document which was formulated by Evangelical Protestant and Catholics in 1994. Murray details the events of this gathering and the response which was given by other evangelicals such as Sproul and MacArthur who were adamantly opposed to ECT. 

The biggest problem I have with this work is its title, "Evangelicalism Divided." I am trying to recall anytime in Church history where Evangelicalism was ever united. The sub title actually fits the content of the book much better, "A Record of Crucial Change in the Years 1950-2000." This work certainly frowns upon ecumenism in general and any form of ecumenism in Evangelical circles. In fact, the majority of the crucial changes Murray touches on in this work are ecumenical issues or the like. However, there are certain theological tenets to which any Christian should certainly avoid and Murray covers movements in certain groups towards this type of thinking as well. If you like recent Church history from an evangelical point of view, then perhaps you will like this book
