Roadfood isn't exactly the American Michelin Guide to fine dining, but it fills perhaps an even more important niche, in the sense that it covers the types of places real people might actually find themselves eating at.  As such, it aims at finding places serving food unique or typical of the region, joints that do the seemingly ordinary, extraordinarily well.  

The book is organized by region and then by state within that region.  New England, the Mid-Atlantic, and the Deep South are likely the best covered area, the Great Plains the least.  The maps won't help you find a place, and directions are hardly ever included in the reviews, but phone numbers are listed and a reader with a cell phone can do the rest.  The Sterns visit lobster shacks in Maine, ethnic delis in New York, barbecue and oyster joints in the south, and so on.  Their taste runs very much to the real and indisputably authentic; good service, friendly people and atmosphere, and pride in cooking always win out over fancy decorations.  I have been to over 40 of the establishments listed here over the years, and only very few fall into the `fine dining' category of any other guidebook.  There are some pricey places listed, but they are far outnumbered by places where a meal and a soda or beer can be had for under $15.

There are cities that are more thoroughly covered than others; but let's face it, Chicago and New York have a lot more and better places that fit the Roadfood mission than Billings, Montana might.  It's not a guide to your neighborhood eateries, it's a guide to funky places around the country, wherever they may be.  Someone looking for cheap and good grub in their hometown should consult their local phone book.

I take this book with me on every road trip.  It invites the reader to explore the side roads, talk to new people, and connect with America.  It is a delight to browse through, well written and with a love for the sheer pleasure of finding a place still true to itself.  It is the antidote to a dull set of drive-through meals along the interstate.
