First off, let me say that I know the author and count the Novaks as friends of our family.  Having said that, I am an actual Anglican, born to the old Episcopal church, baptized, confirmed, and married by the traditional Book of Common Prayer.  I mention this because contemporary Episcopalianism has veered far off course from the Anglicanism of Washington's day, while I have made a serious study of just that:  the Anglicanism of the 17th, 18th and 19th Centuries.

I also state that I am a layman, albeit one with a very keen interest in my Christian heritate.  Michael is somewhat hampered in his investigation by his own Roman Catholicism, which of necessity means he comes to Washington not as a coreligionist, and dependent on others for their perspective on the Church of England.

Chrisitanity of the 18th C is not the Christianity of today.  Methodism and Evangelicalism as we know them were unheard of and would have been regarded as madness any earlier than they appeared.  Until then, Protestants in particular took Christ's admonition to pray in one's closet -- privately -- very seriously.  Congregational worship, according to the 1662 edition of hte Book of Common Prayer, left little room for improvisation or personal input.  It was formal, elegant, ancient even then, and it was almost unthinkable to fiddle with its carefully considered proscriptions.  It necessesarily formed the religous mind of those who worshiped by it in church.  In the BCP, the Christian God is often called by "Almighty God", "Father in heaven" and similar Old Testament names.  Jesus Christ's name is used, but in specific places in specific prayers, usually only at Holy Communion.

This is to say, the Anglican of old would be aghast to presume too much familiarity with Lord Jesus!  Recall this is an age of excruciatingly specific ettiquitte and protocol.  Being "buddies" with the Christ would have caused Washington a burst blood vessel in his head!

Also, public prayer was expected to be lead by a minister of God's word, not a layman.  In the privacy of one's home, the husband and father was expected to act as chief priest and lead family prayer -- but this too was considered extraordinarily private and not something to be broadcast from a soapbox.  It would certianly not be written about in letters.

As to the matter of the Lord's Supper, this too is not what modern Christians anachronistically make it to be.  Anglicans were of mixed mind -- and still are today -- as to the meaning of the consecrated bread and wine of Holy Communion.  Was it the Real Presence in transubstantiated form?  Spiritually?  Merely a symbol?  Was Christ present bodily, spiritually, or only in memoriam?  These were serious questions and not completely answered in 1776.  They are not answered in 2006.

Whichever belief Washington may have had about the Supper of the Lord, one thing all Anglicans believed is that it was "Romish" to Communicate too frequently.  The rubrics of the Prayerbook tell the faithful Anglican he must Communicate only on Easter Day!  It was not uncommon in the Episcopal church as recently as the 1950s to take Communion only on very holy days, even as many observed Good Friday fasts.  

Further, Anglicanism is particular in prohibiting any "notorious evildoer", anyone not in love and charity with his neighbors, or anyone conscious of grave sin from the Table of the Lord.  This injunction is made before each Communion and it is not uncommon for communicants even today to refrain from the Eucharist if htey feel unworthy, lest they experience the eternal damnation of their soul as warned by Saint Paul.

It is entirely possible Washington, given his extraordinary sense of honor and keen sinfulness, may simply have believed himself unworthy of communicating while he was engaged in warfare.

In any case, most Anglican would have approached the Lord's Table on Easter and perhaps special days of Thanksgiving and not very much more often.

Dr. Novak is, sadly, unacquainted with this historical practice, and so he did not properly address it in his book.

Bottom line, Washington's public behavior was perhaps the epitome of a holy Anglican.  Reserved, careful not to presume too much familiarity with the Lord Christ himself, fearful of unworthy Communication, too humble and reserved to dare brag of the Almighty's favour and goodness towards him.

No, Washington was no Deist and those who say so are ignoramouses.  Washington was a Vestryman who understood his place with the Lord God Almighty and dared not presume on his Providence.

Please read the 1662 Book of Common Prayer, which may be found online at http://www.eskimo.com/~lhowell/bcp1662/.  Read it and you will understand Washington and his God.  You might even join him in reverent worship.

