Robert Gilpin's Global Political Economy: Understanding the International Economic Order delivers what it promises by giving readers an understanding of economic relations among nations.  Essentially, it is an introduction to the discipline of political economy, a survey of economic developments since World War II, and an analysis of the theories that compete to explain these developments.  As an introduction to the field, it is both accessible and comprehensive, but extensive footnotes and a select bibliography provide resources for advanced students.

Gilpin begins with a rather pessimistic assessment of his colleagues: economists, he says, have a suite of highly developed analytical methods and theoretical models that are seldom applicable.  Political scientists, on the other hand, rely essentially on intuition that is seldom informed by theory.  Political economy, of course, is an attempt to move past these limitations.  Political economists tend to study powerful economic actors who can influence prices.  Realists, like Gilpin, focus especially on state actors while recognizing the increasing influence of global investors, multinational corporations, and NGOs.  Political economists would take particular note that economies are embedded in social and political systems where the purposes of economic activity are decided.  One society may use its wealth to build a fairly egalitarian welfare state; another might use it to develop military might, and a third might concentrate wealth in the hands of a small elite.

One of the striking features of the international economy is that "free trade has historically been the exception and protection the rule," even though the benefits of free trade have persuasive theoretical and empirical support.  Trade liberalization increases domestic competition, thus increasing efficiency and consumer choice.  It increases both domestic and global wealth through the gains from specialization, and it encourages the diffusion of new technology throughout the world.  Gilpin cites several reasons why, in the light of these benefits, protectionist ideologies usually hold sway.  First, while the principle of comparative advantage tells us that both parties to an exchange will benefit, one party may benefit more than the other, and nations can and do worry about relative benefits.  Second, economists support the use of protection for infant industries that can later become competitive.  Unfortunately, there is no way other than trial and error to identify these future winners, and temporary protection often becomes permanent.  Third, trade benefits do not accrue to all members of a society equally.  Fourth, trade creates interdependencies between nations, while nations try to preserve their autonomy and freedom of action.

Gilpin examines the problem of uneven development and, in particular, asks what role the state might play in accelerating development.  After an extended discussion of the debate over the "development state," Gilpin concludes that states have an important role to play.  Development requires a transformation of society, and states can facilitate that transformation by investing in the health and education of their citizens, socializing them, and providing public goods like physical infrastructure and economic institutions.  There is also evidence that government investment in research and development has positive effects for domestic industry.

Gilpin also describes the "machinery" of the international monetary and finance system in detail.  All but the most expert of readers will find some new information here.

I have to say that I enjoyed this book tremendously.  Gilpin has an exciting story to tell, and he writes clearly, with a degree of elegance of expression and restraint
