  Sir Laurence Olivier (1907-1989) is arguably the greatest English speaking actor of the twentieth century. Among his immortal Shakespearean portayals on stage and screen are:
Hamlet; King Lear; Richard III; Romeo: Macbeth and all the major Shakespearean roles; several great films such as Rebecca, Pride and Prejudice; Wuthering Heights Henry V and Richard III.
  He wed three times: (all were actresses) Jill Esmond; the troubled but brilliant Vivian Leigh (the immortal Scarlet O'Hara in Gone With the Wind and Blanch Dubois in Tennessee Williams'
classic "A Streetcar Named Desire"). and Joan Plowright.
  Terry Coleman is a veteran British reporter and author. He has been designated by the Olivier family as the official biographer.
He portrays Sir Larry warts and all! Olivier was egocentric, high living and often profane. His tempestuous marriage to
the mentally ill Vivian Leigh is one of the classic love tales of the acting world. 
   Coleman gives us all the facts of Olivier's life but the reader still feels that Olivier was an enigma to himself and to the millions enthralled by his acting. Like most human beings he could be warm and caring and also aloof and cruel. His philandering is less than commendable. He comes across as a fairly shallow fellow concerned with his own glory and career. His directorship of the National Theatre was difficult and cost him
his health. Olivier is to be commended about the way he worked  in films during his last years to enable his wife Joan Plowright and children to have financial security following his death.
   Sir Larry along with Sir Ralph Richardson and Sir John Gieguld were the greatest thespians on the stage during their lives. Olivier was more of a natural actor and was an athletic and powerful force of nature.
  All in all we shall not see his like again. Olivier was a high Tory who was conservative in his belief although his religous commitment seems weak (his father with whom he did not get along was an Anglican clergyman) 
  This is the one book on Laurence Olivier you want to read to know the story of a great actor!  Well recommended!
