The book follows the real-life story of Chris Gardner, a self-made entrepreneuer and investor, as he perserveres over a multitude of personal, social, psychological, and financial obstacles. The book presents Gardner's thoughts, raw emotions, and intepretations as the incidents are revealed from his memory. 

The first act was a bit slow but captured the familial themes that motivate him in the latter portion of his life. Chris's step-father was verbally and physically abusive both to him and his mother. His mother was loving yet not always available due to run-in with the law. These circumstances cement Chris's desire to be a good parent for his son later on in his life. The second act presents Chris's self-awareness as a racial minority in California and a stint within the Navy. Throughout the latter  Acts, Chris overindulges in various temptations that ultimately leads him to descend into a situation of being a single, black father living in poverty.

I feel this review wouldn't be complete without a comparison to the Will Smith movie. The movie covers only the latter adult portion of Gardner's life. The movie a good in its own right for presenting a character inspired and determined to overcome a row of circumstancial obstacles. However, the movie suffers from too many Hollywood cliches, too much insertion of grim comic relief (showing Gardner run frantically around San Francisco after thieves who steal his products) and most importantly inserted a messianic portrayal of Gardner as opposed to the real, aspiring but flawed portrayal in the book. 

While I acknowledge its difficult to provide this much depth in a 2-hour film, I feel this skewed portrayal of Chris as some sort of ultimate role model waters down the message present in the book. Chris, while a good and decent man and father, admits he has cheated on his wife, has experimented with drugs. Nonetheless, Chris's thoughts exemplify a sharp individual who sees the forest for the trees, knows how to think outside the box, and doesn't allow certain personal or business relationships hinder his own success. Gardner's confidence in himself, his ability to learn new trades and skills under constraints demonstrate qualities that identify Chris as a leader who can inspire others regardless of their own circumstances. I was rather impressed and inspired by Chris's ability to bear and dismiss pessimistic stress-inducing rhetoric from his pampered, sheltered co-workers, manipulative employers, and racists clients in order to succeed as a stock broker. 

Many of the readers who rate this book poorly due to the personal decision Gardner made in his own life have missed the essence of the autobiography. Gardner openly acknowledges that he made many selfish and wreckless mistakes in his life from start to finish. Even I will agree that Gardner makes many personal decisions during his ascension to wealth that I would probably never consider. However, the story of this book is Gardner's ability to combine heart, determination, and wits in order to escape the wilderness and pursue a life, vision, and positive sphere of influence within his own community. This valuable message is one I will never forget, which is why I highly recommend this book for others who want to put their own problems in perspective.
