Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam by H. R. McMaster is an exceptionally well researched and well written book.  One certainly gets the impression that McMaster has studied the main decision makers of Vietnam so well that he wrote about them with the familiarity and insight that is normally only reserved for siblings. While a bit long, this book explains the blow-by-blow decision making that led to the Vietnam War.

Most military strategists look back at Vietnam and recommend one of two strategies.  The first of these strategies would have been an all out conventional war against North Vietnam.  The risk of this strategy is that it might have resulted in China and/or Russia intervening.  If that had happened, the results could have ranged from Nuclear War to a repeat of the Korean conflict.  Either result would have been suicide for Johnson.  The second strategy is the so-called ink blot strategy.  The risk of this strategy is that small American units working with local forces would, from time to time, be destroyed by larger North Vietnamese units that infiltrated the south.  This combined with the large ongoing manpower requirements and lack major combatant operations would have meant that Johnson would have been open to criticisms of being soft on Communism.  Given the unique situation of the war in Vietnam, it is unclear if either strategy would have been successful in the long run.

It is said that a masterpiece is something that many people can read different meanings into.  If that is true, than Col McMasters has drafted a great masterpiece based on the other Amazon reviews.  Col McMasters has a pretty equal criticism of both the JCS and Johnson/McNamara. Likewise, many senior folks today have used this book as a justification to criticize the current war in Iraq.  In the mind of this reviewer, the education, experiences, and background of Johnson, McNamara, and the JCS members were almost a guarantee that they would be unable to craft an effective strategy for Vietnam.  Johnson's role models for war presidents were Truman and Wilson.  He crafted policies and political messages to avoid the mistakes that they had made not realizing how different his situation was.  Likewise, McNamara and his whiz kids were uniquely unqualified to lead a war in a largely agrarian state that was motivated more by ideology than by profits/loss statements.  Moreover, WWII which was the shaping experience for most of the JCS was exactly the wrong kind of war to model Vietnam after.

Col McMasters, recently of the 3rd ACR in Iraq, has a well earned reputation as one of the leading intellectuals in the modern Army.  However, the lesson of his book is the unintended one that means and ends are also measured in terms of political influence and ideology.  In the end, Vietnam was a war lost as much to lack of imagination and creativity than to political expediency.

On a side note (and beyond the scope of this review), I'm always amazed that historians including McMasters, so quickly give Truman, Eisenhower, and, especially, Kennedy a bye on the failure to formulate a comprehensive policy in Vietnam.  Under Truman, we had Joint Army Navy Intelligence Units and OSS Units actually fighting each other because they were supporting different elements that were nominally fighting the Japanese.  Eisenhower actually sent an air mobile battalion to Vietnam to test helicopters in combat just so we could develop combat doctrine without going to the expense of actually being in a war.  Kennedy increased the 500 or so military folks (advisors, Special Forces, and Eisenhower's air mobile battalion) to 16,000 advisors.  Anyone of these Presidents could have crafted a more effective and thoughtful strategy for Vietnam, but failed to do so
