I found Sen to be interesting, much more so in fact that I likely would have had I not come to Sen with an understanding of the material in Friedman's Capitalism & Freedom, Rawls' Theory of Justice and Schweickart's After Capitalism.  In addition to the interest I found in Sen, which itself was based primarily on his new (or at least unique) definition of freedom as being primarily based in the development experienced by or promoted through, the work of the now free people in question.  Indeed I found much of Sen's work to be strongly definitional in nature, seeming to draw almost entirely on the definitions of each aspect of his theory as he goes along through the text.  This is all well and good until a reader does not share or cannot be made to understand the relation of his sometimes altered definition to the traditionally understood meaning of the terms he uses throughout.  I should think, however that many would, could or simply should adopt to Sen's understanding of the major terms of socioeconomic influence and would be no worse off for it, and perhaps in the process, would have developed a more liberal viewpoint from which to gauge their own actions as well as those of others.  In the notion of freedoms as being inhibited by unfreedom as put forth by Sen and later developed to be the idea of development as opposed to limited capacity to act, this is certainly true; when one comes to identify an unfreedom specifically as the limitation of another's rational and autonomous capacity, a certain liberalized viewpoint must enter into consideration in the form of a desire to release the constraint.  This is precisely why I suspect Sen words his text as he does, to not only express his meaning, but to compel the reader to adopt a sympathetic yet active viewpoint of the struggle for freedom.
	Though the text is long, it seems to me that much of its drive may be summarized fairly simply; the affluent will grow more so, based on the extent of the resources available to them, and the poor will remain so, continuing to be deprived of abilities (usually at the hands of the rich), and will continue to await an enlightenment that, according to Sen, will never arrive with the obstacles that are in place now being left as such.  This is a difficult aspect of the text to my understanding largely due to the fact that while it serves admirably as a "call to action" there is very little actual action or proposals for potential actions within the book itself and by this I mean that while providing an impetus to act in the form of presenting the problem and perhaps creating in the reader the desire to act in some way, Sen provides very few avenues along which to do so.  It would seem to me that few readers will find the motivation in Sen beyond a feeling of needing to do "something" that will allow and indeed encourage them to seek further action against the injustices (in the form of Sen's unfreedoms) that will continue unchecked without such action.  I do not mean to say that Sen's text is ineffectual, for it indubitably calls the reader to action, though falls short on proposals for how to accomplish said actions.
	On an economic basis, for up this point we have been led by our read authors to view freedom as inherently tied in to finance, Sen makes the clear case that it is freedom and not wealth that should be maximized. He defines a freedom as anything we have a reason to value (and not just in the sense of monetary or capital-producing value as before) and equates this new definition to understanding and agreeing with the value of freedom in society. For example, societies may want strive for political and economic growth to equal a sense of development, but development can also be, and Sen would seem to indicate is much more aptly and workably defined as extended life expectancy (the freedom to enjoy more years alive as opposed to the unfreedom of an early death) or less hunger (the freedom to avoid hunger in opposition to the unfreedom of starvation).  Freedom and development, the two pillars upon which this book is supported are not so diametrically opposed as many may have thought previous to coming to Sen; and furthermore, on a Senian account, they actually reinforce and complement one another to achieve freedom for all by means of making economic prosperity more available to all.  Sen seems to indicate that democracy is not a luxury whereby only rich or developed nations can profit and purchase to excess, but should be seen as an end in itself in a Kantian sense, as well as a guiding force to foster and promote economic development and individual freedom; a concept Friedman, Rawls and Schweickart should all certainly be able to agree on.
