I found this book quite enlightening in more areas than I originally considered possible.  First and foremost, the authors provide an extremely insightful understanding of the terrorist threat we face in Al Qaeda.  It goes far beyond the simplistic perceptions we see in both the press and those provided by &quot;commentators&quot;.  The direct experiences of Mr. Simon and Benjamin in the counter-terrorism arena have provided them a unique and profound understanding of the nature of our enemy.  The book is reasonably well written and develops our own perceptions by carrying us through numerous individual terrorist events, showing remarkable details which are unquestionable the result of extensive investigations and study by the authors, who at the time were directly responsible for national counter-terrorism at the NSA level.  That level of insight can not be so simply discarded without understanding that our own biases may be overpowering our ability to look at their arguments dispassionately.  Mr. Simon and Benjamin do seem to have their own biases, as other reviewers have mentioned.  But one does not stand in the shoes they have had to fill without gaining some immeasurable insights.  The excerpts on various Islamic terrorist, and on our new arch-enemy, Osama bin Laden, are superb.  Perhaps they should be required reading for all Americans to really comprehend the depths of this new threat, and even more importantly how terrorism really works.  The arguments of the authors are intriguing, and in an unusual way insightful about the power of bias, and how it can cause a deadly menace to slip through the cracks, and be almost unnoticed until it suddenly becomes the focus of the whole world.    Having studied and taught about Terrorism and  Guerrilla Warfare in the military, I would suggest such a factor is a rare opportunity for any enemy who would wished to deal in that type of warfare.  The seemingly tangential information concerning other religious extremism struck me, at first, as a little out of place with the heavy focus of the rest of the book on Islamic terrorists.  None-the-less, this was hardly at odds  with the title, and clearly as disconcerting as the principle targets of interest.  The use of terrorism and extremists go hand in hand, and I would assume the authors had good reason to raise the spector of other fronts to our attention.  It is wise to consider all threats. By far the portion of the book most demanding our interest in these difficult times, of course, is that large and enlightening portion which details in extraordinary shades of blood red the nature of an unexpected and ruthless enemy which has come to threaten us in our own homeland, and thus became a force to be reckoned with on the world scene.  The book is timely, reasonably well written and worth a read, whether you agree with the authors' bias or not
