Former President George H.W. Bush is prolific letter writer, and in All The Best, this public figure allows us a peek into the sometimes very private side of his life in this collection of his personal correspondence. Many of these dispatches date back sixty years, and they paint a picture of the former President that no autobiography quite could. 

The Bush revealed by his letters is an idealist in his youth, who joins the military out of a strong desire to serve his nation. He tells of his life as a Navy pilot, writes love letters home to the woman he eventually marries, and tells her in one forceful letter from the front of the justice he hopes finds those who carry out combat atrocities in the name of nationalism. 

Bush later becomes a husband and father (to a first son nicknamed "Googie") and relocates from New England to the Texas oil country. In one humorous letter from this period, Bush writes local law enforcement apologizing for speeding and asking that in the face of his repentance his fine be repealed. (It wasn't.) Through hundreds of letters that cover most of the twentieth century, we see that George Bush's life is often exciting, though occasionally visited by tragedy, as with the loss of his pre-school-aged daughter Robin. I personally found the writings that covered the domestic and business sides of Mr. Bush's life more interesting than the ones that dealt with his duties as Congressman, UN Ambassador, Head of the CIA, and Republican Party, Ambassador to China, Vice President, and finally President of the United States. The most touching of Bush's writings were the letters he penned to his grandchildren at the times of their births. 

One of the most inviting aspects of this book is that since it has no linear plotline to follow, it may be perused in random fashion without diminishing its purpose. If one wishes information about the era of the (first) Bush Presidency, that is set off from, say, the chapters that cover Bush's life as a private citizen.

The practice of letter writing is either being enhanced by the presence of email, or being undermined by it. However one views the topic, there's little denying that there is an art to authoring a letter, and the forty-first US President is a lifelong master
