This book has resolved my personal quest of almost 50 years. 

My first search into what I now call `cosmological science' was over 50 years ago.  Every since my college days, I asked myself the question: "What is the universe and how do I fit into it?"

In the past few years, I've have read how astronomers and cosmologists were getting very close to answers to these basic questions.  In the past decade, satellite observations from Hubble plus data from many Earth and satellite telescope systems have been looking at the heavens over a much greater frequency range than the visible spectrum.  In addition, astronomers were becoming confident that their measurements from supernova were giving accurate measure of the expansion of the universe.   Now we also understand the `snow' we see on our TV sets is just reception of radio signals that were caused by the cosmic background noise.  And that goes almost all the way back to the Big Bang.
 
What does that have to do with this book?  Well, in this recently published book (2006), the authors have taken and pieced together the major pieces of the cosmological puzzle:  Who are we and where we are going?

The book is separated into three parts: The first part, three chapters, is a historical sequence of how man and mankind adopted to his environment.  This part reviews religious icons, myths and mysticism.  If this makes you uncomfortable, I suggest you move on to what I consider the 'main event' in Part Two.  I'll warn you now:  There are a lot of footnotes, sometimes 4 or 5 for each page of text.  I recommend, as the authors do, that you try to read all the bold numbers as soon as possible on the page since they hold significant background or clarification information.  Some of the notes are quite detailed and can be more than a page long, but are necessary in the authors' development of the facts of the subject discussed.  
 
One of the most profound statements that I found in this book is that there is a very good chance the human race is a unique event in the history of the universe.  The chance of another high level civilization existing 'out there' is very, very remote.  We're alone!!
 
That leads to the last portion of this book, and why I think it is so terribly important.  Public media, TV, magazines and newspapers have had a lot of dialog lately about how humans are not doing a very good job of preserving our planet.  This book suggests that the problem is bigger than the limited view of our environment.  The authors suggest that humans and their civilization can and MUST change but we have to change our way of thinking and approaching the problem.  

The solution is out there:  The authors only invite us to seek it in our own way.

I thought that the message in this book was important enough to purchase a copy for each of my children.  My hope is that after they have finished the reading we could some good interesting dialog concerning each of our impressions of the universe as it now is, and our place in i
