When prim and proper history professor Roseleen White acquires an ancient Viking sword known as "Blooddrinker's Curse", she has no idea the power that she now holds over a proud and mighty Viking warrior for unbeknownst to her, Thorn Blooddrinker, the sword's owner, is cursed to obey the command of any woman who holds the sword.  Soon, she learns that by holding the sword, she can make the Viking appear. 
 
Now Thorn is not too pleased with Roseleen's summoning, as it seems to occur each time he is occupied with other things, such as in the midst of fighting with his brother or partaking in Odin's banquet in Valhalla.  Yet Roseleen perplexes him, as unlike the other women who have previously owned his sword, she isn't interested in using his power for any greedy purpose nor is she interested in being his lover.  All she seems interested in is getting first hand information about the battle between the Normans and Saxons to assist with her research.  So he agrees to travel back in time with her and soon find themselves falling passionately in love.  
 
Until Forever is a cleverly written novel, combining a passionate love story with time travel. It is fun to read and sure to delight romance readers looking for something different. Thorn's fascination with all things modern is fun to read. His curiosity with modern plumbing, electricity and even a lipstick had me laughing.  I also liked Roseleen's transformation from a seemingly mousy professor who has been burned in the only relationship she's ever had, to a passionate woman who has hopelessly fallen in love with Thorn.  The adventures they share are well described that you get a vivid picture of the scenes and places they're supposed to be at.  

Of course, as with all romance novels, they are faced with the ultimate challenge - Thorn needs to convince Roseleen that he is happy to remain with her, while she knows that the only way to release him from his curse is by giving him back his sword and letting him return to Valhalla for good, thus sacrificing her own happiness.
 
The ending is basically a draw-your-own-conclusion type of thing.  Now don't get me wrong, there isn't anything wrong about it.  It is actually quite clever and unexpected and had me grinning after I finished the book.

Other time-travel romance books I have really enjoyed are Jude Deveraux's "A Knight in Shining Armor" and Flora Speer's "A Time to Love Again". Both are so much better than this
