Using Boston's "Big Dig" as her novel's primary setting, Linda Barnes creates a complex but intriguing mystery in which her heroine, Carlotta Carlyle, a six-foot, red-haired private eye, goes undercover as a secretary on the Big Dig construction site.  She is helping the Inspector General's Office investigate possible corruption on the $14 billion project to build a two-mile underground tunnel for the Central Artery.  In her off-hours, she has been persuaded by a Boston dowager, Dana Endicott, to work on an unrelated second job, locating Endicott's missing companion, who departed for the weekend and never returned, leaving her beloved dog behind.  

The mystery becomes more complex with the suspicious death of a construction worker, the disappearance of the boss's teenage daughter, the FBI's preparations for the April 19th Patriots' Day celebration at Faneuil Hall with several ex-Presidents in attendance, and a possible connection to David Koresh and the Branch Davidians in Waco, Texas.

The ninth in the Carlotta Carlyle series of mysteries, The Big Dig picks up Carlotta's personal life where she left off in her previous novel, Flashpoint.  She has recovered from her gunshot wounds and her ill-advised romance with the son of a Boston underworld character (featured in that novel) and is back at work, following a devastating fire at her house in Cambridge.  The action here is nonstop, and Carlotta, as a free-wheeling detective who follows her intuition and her heart, defies the stereotype of hard-boiled tough, revealing herself instead as a woman who is particularly sensitive to the needs of children, especially the missing teenager, Krissi Horgan.

Though there are a great many characters to track and numerous subplots and red herrings to follow, Barnes is spot-on with her descriptions of the Dig, the ambience of Quincy Market and its tourist bars, the local traffic routes and landmarks, and the more distant small towns in northern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire which figure in the action.  Bostonians will particularly enjoy the local color, but the descriptions are specific enough that those unfamiliar with the area will have no trouble imagining the developing action.  Fun to read, with a story that packs a lot of wild action, The Big Dig is a quick-paced mystery that also fills in more of Carlotta Carlyle's personal background and further develops her character. n Mary Whipple
