  .  
 Dear Betty Dravis,

            I sincerely hope you enjoy the thought of living in New York City and being the Head Writer on a Television "Soap Opera" daytime drama, because I think this will be your happy fate after the daytime television fans take note of your "1106 Grand Boulevard" novel....and consider the glorious possibilities of your novel as a soap opera!

                   Best Wishes,  John Michael O'Loughlin 

PS ---  How I loved to watch the daytime drama "Ryan's Hope" back in the 1970's and the 1980's...my friends and family and I would be glued to the TV set and on the edge of our seats each day!  Here's a "heads-up" to all those aging "Ryan's Hope" fans who are always hoping to discover a worthy sequel to their favorite show --- Ladies and Gentlemen, I have found what we seek!!!

       There is enough basic material in this one book to provide the plot outline for a good ten years of thrilling daytime television.  Those who are fans of RH and AMC and all the other wonderful soaps both past and present understand that time in the soaps can speed up, and one year of real time can sometimes be five years of TV time.  Example:  A baby this season can be a toddler next season and a teenager the season after --- in three years the baby can start High School....This book is absolutely perfect for these situations where the adults age slowly and the children age much faster.  Just like the Ryan family, there are tons of family members with intricate stories.

       Some might think I'm making subtle fun of this book by saying it's perfect to be made into a daytime television show.....I am not!  I love the soaps (especially RH and AMC...Ryan's Hope and All My Children, to those of you reading this who are not fans of the soaps...), and "1106 Grand Boulevard" is to the soap opera genre as GWTW (Gone With The Wind) was to the epic movie genre of the 1930's.... I ain't kidding, folks.  And, if you're a soap opera fan, then you should do yourself a tremendous favor and get this book right away!  You'll thank me for this recommendation, I guarantee! 

       I'm ready to begin watching this wonderful "1106 Grand Boulevard" daytime drama soap opera  as soon as the first show airs.......primarily because it'll be the finest family television drama since "Ryan's Hope"!  And, to all my fellow RH fans.......I wouldn't tell you all this and get your hopes up if I didn't know it to be the one hundred per cent truth!  You're going to absolutely fall in love with Billie Jean and everyone in this novel...         

        



