Take four professional women--Lindsay, a homicide inspector who receives some bad personal news; Claire, a medical examiner and Lindsay's best friend; Jill, a tough assistant DA; and Cindy, a persistent reporter from the Chronicle--mix them together and you've got: The Women's Murder Club.

With a serial killer dubbed 'Chimera', we are given a glimpse of pure evil--a killer whose targets appear to be random, with nothing obvious to connect them. But of course, Lindsay and her friends slowly begin to put the pieces together. And when the targets become more personal, especially to Lindsay, you are left wondering if there will be a Women's Murder Club by the time the story has ended.

With engrossing and 'real' characters, whose only fault is that they may be just a bit too intelligent and a bit too perfect, Patterson captures the camaraderie of female friendships. But it is the relationship between Lindsay and her estranged father that is key to this story. 

In this second smoothly crafted installment, I am please to report that James Patterson and his mysterious co-author Andrew Gross have yet again captured my imagination and kept me up late at night. I couldn't wait to read it after I finished the first in the series--1st to Die--and I'll be running out for the third immediately. The plot races along at breakneck speed, with enough twists to make your stomach churn. I've been a longtime fan of Patterson's Alex Cross series, but I have to say...'Alex Cross move over! There's a new gal in town...and her name is Lt. Lindsay Boxer!'

I have a few questions regarding the co-author. Why is there no biography at the back for Andrew Gross? And why is his name in such tiny print? I also wonder how much of this novel he actually wrote. And this leads me to my final question--What does it take to co-write a novel with James Patterson (because as an author myself I am always looking for new options!) :)

~Cheryl Kaye Tardif
Author of Whale Song (978-1-897339-02-2)
Available 2007 from Kunati Books
[...]
