I remember reading this book a couple years ago and didn't care for it. Without Franken's wide-eyed, mock-innocent delivery, his writing comes across as mean. 

So, I did the decent thing and picked up the audio version. MUCH better!! As one of Franken's early political works, RLIABFI is not as hard-hitting as his later works -- "Lies and the Lying Liars WHo Tell Them" and "The Truth (with Jokes)". Franken is still more of the naughty boy than the political analyst, but his political and truth-telling skills are still definitely on display.

There were some gems. The mock book review by former UN Ambassador Jeanne Kirkpatrick was a hilarious send-up of her as well as of the genre. And Franken was at his best as he described his early political activity as a 20-something tagging along after the Moe Udall and Ronald Reagan presidential campaigns. Franken's description of playing football with Bill Clinton, of attending Ross Perot's Reform Party convention in Dallas and of travelling to a migraine-inducing Christian Coalition event are dead-on and usually warm-hearted depictions of the flawed but very real people who get involved in politics. And his full-alphabet version of the V-Chip (The "S" chip blocks out the sitcoms, for instance) is wacky and almost surreal.

Franken's pieces sometimes misfire or (what is worse) confuse. His essay on his assistant's Lyme disease ably illustrated the problems of the uninsured trying to get health care. But the following essay -- purporting to show how the assistant was suing Franken over the effects of the disease -- seemed more like a piece the right wing might use against trial lawyers. I wasn't sure where Franken stood on this issue; perhaps he was being so profoundly ironic that I missed the joke. Too, some might dislike the humorist's "de rigueur" use of vulgar language, though it does not come up to the "standards" of comics like George Carlin or Dave Chapelle. Some people might also be offended by jokes aimed at Limbaugh's weight, but by the time Franken is done with him, Limbaugh's weight becomes more of a metaphor for his pomposity and bloated sense of morality.

All in all, RLIABFI is not Franken's strongest offering. It's not even predomaninantly about Limbaugh. Reagan, Bush I, Pat Robertson and Newt Gingrich are big fat targets too. But the book is a great introduction to a man who has become just about the only voice on the left who is loud enough and smart enough and corrosive enough to get the attention of the moribund American public
