Having just been diagnosed with a recurrence of non-metastatic breast cancer, I decided to seek out resources that might help me make the lifestyle changes I failed to make after my first episode, in order to prevent yet another recurrence. Since I'm in a doctoral program, I decided to take a course on alternative medicine and immediately began reading the texts, which led to this excellent resource.

Dr. Arnot's book is highly readable and very sincere. By that I mean it has heart, explained by Dr. Arnot's statement that he conducted the research for his wife who, upon her Mother's diagnosis with breast cancer, asked him what she could do to keep from getting it. The information in the book was his answer to her--information he decided to share with other women. His job as a medical reporter provides him with a language deftness and communication skills that enabled him to make technical information accessible to a lay audience. The latter is what makes the book easy and enjoyable reading rather than work.

Like many, I questioned how valid his information was--until I encountered the same information (as well as studies) in other credible sources. Dr. Anot is not just a good reporter, he's a good scientist.

I, too, have talked this book up to most of the women I know. Prior to reading it and the other resources I've encountered, despite having a decent lay knowledge of this disease, surprises abounded. Why don't they teach anything substantive about health and wellness in school when it's so crucial to leading a happy, productive, and healthy life? I expect many of you can guess the answer--it's not in the interests of the power elite, specifically the drug companies and American food industry. (Read one of the fascinating books on "McDonalidization" for insight on this mindset and it's political/economic influence.)

My only complaints about the book are that I would like to see a follow-up edition with the conclusion to many of the studies that were in progress when it was written. Many of them have concluded by the end of 2004 and I'd sure like to know the results. I'd also like to have seen the recipes that accompanied the meal plans, or even a separate volume containing recipes.

There is much that women who currently have, have had, or want to prevent this disease can do to hold it at bay and show it who's boss (especially since only 20% of cases are attributed primarily to genetic causes). Reading, no, absorbing the contents of this book, is one of them!
