William Vollman has to be read, and read more.  The question is more which Vollman to read than whether to read Vollman at all.  His works can be loosely divided into the historical (the Seven Dreams series and the recent philosophical work in violence, Rising Up and Rising Down) and the journalistic fiction (including Butterfly Stories and Atlas and Whores for Gloria).  But the work of cultural archaeology that Vollman is performing can be located in all his works.  He is bringing that which has been buried by long years of cultural blindness and prejudice into the light.  With great patience we will learn to think "person" when we hear "prostitute", instead of just shaking our heads at what we know only as some abstract category of social depravity - a prejudice that many might protest but secretly be a party to (myself reluctantly included).  
In the introduction, honest Vollman makes his plea for suspension of judgment on his blatantly controversial cast of characters:
"In case any of you readers happens to be a member of the Public, that mysterious organization that rules the world through shadow-terrors, I beg you not to pull censorious strings merely because this book, like one or two others of mine, is partly about the most honest form of love called prostitution - a subject which the righteous might think exhausted with a single thought - or, better yet, no thought at all - but the truth is that there are at least thirteen times as many different sorts of whores as there are members of the Public (and I think you know what I mean by members).  Shall we pause to admire them all...?"
And from there, Vollman plunges into a heart-wrenching story of  alienation, desparate love-seeking, and reality-smashing encounters with a tumultuous underworld of eager and elusive women.  We follow the protagonist, the journalist, from his school days, to a trans-European train ride, to the brothels and discos of Thailand and Cambodia, returning to an estranged home, and the subsequent delirium of desire and uncertainty.    
Here is a story about love and loneliness, ethics and humanity, pleasure and pain.  It is a story about willful self-destruction and about grabbing for assurances on the way down.  It is what you will let it be.  Either way, Vollman is a master
