The surprising thing about the classic O'Neil tragedy, "Long Day's Journery Into Night", is that after all the demon revelations -- Mom in the grip of drugs and fear, Dad in the thrall of greed and guilt, offspring awash in bourbon and disease -- the audience can feel anything for the doomed family beyond revulsion, irritation, and cynical detachment. 

The four Act play takes place entirely in the shabby parlour of a 1912 American home, which serves as a battlefield for the four Tyrones to mark out their respective emotional territory as if not only their own lives but the meaning of life itself depended upon it.  This is heavy going.  At times the verbal assaults and collisions between family members are so harsh as to suggest a psychic demolition derby -- just as noisy and just as hard to watch.  Yet the genius of the playwright lies in an instinctive understanding of when to pull back these combatants, how to keep the blood from actually flowing.  We grow to realize, by the habitual restraint and reflexive civility of all involved, that these people are more motivated by love, however oddly or perversely felt, than by hate or any deep desire to dissolve the family. It is O'Neil's skill with keeping the roiling moods and explosions tamped down by love, or the effort at love, which keeps the play working as reality rather than spectacle. The audience, in the hands of a lesser writer, would, with such incendiary material, feel buffeted, exhausted, repelled, and fascinated by turns.  In "Journey" we are kept in the loop of sympathy and compassion by the dogged determination of the characters to relate to each other, to find substance and meaning, to go on loving, or at least, to go on observing the mechanisms and rituals of love -- no matter what.

The extraordinary power of this play derives from the interraction of this idea of love, especially the familial variety, with the revelations of truth.  Truth, in the context of this play, has a power equal to and at times greater than love,  would even deny love the place it needs to survive; there is the constant suggestion that loving human relationships do best in a foggy atmosphere of half-truths. We, the audience, are given a signal to this theme when the first signs of nervousness appear in Mary Tyrone in Act 1, and continue, with increasingly disturbing affect, throughout the play. Mary's truth, which threatens the viable heart of the family as a loving entity, is not only the fact of her drug addiction, but more compellingly the history of selfishness, manipulation, and insensitivity that lurks behind it. As the family sketetons come out, one by one, of their assorted closets, taking form as fact, memory, truth -- love is challenged with increasing ferocity.  It is a battle royal, and one of such universal interest that the audience cannot remain detached. The idea of 'love battling truth' underlies every encounter in the play, at once unifying it and at the same time generating tremendous tension. The theme that love as a human need is at odds with truth -- or that love cannot survive without denial of truth, without lies of some sort -- is an uncomfortable suggestion. The spotlight that O'Neil throws on this basic human conundrum gives "Journey" a unique force that reaches beyond its time and place as a turn of the century American drama, or perhaps it's original purpose as an exorcism of O'Neil family ghosts, to the expression of profound human pain mitigated but not redeemed, by love
