Max Hastings acknowledges that armies run not on heroes, but on the average soldier.  The typical troop follows orders, does his or her duty as necessary, and longs for hearth and home.  However, the author claims that armies require a certain number of individuals who go beyond the call of duty.  These standouts are the ones who lead the charges, motivate the troops to go beyond themselves, and actively engage with and destroy the enemy.  They are the Warriors, and they embrace combat in a manner that more gentle folk might consider bloodthirsty and self-serving.  But whatever one may think of them, Warriors are needed to win wars, and Mr. Hastings has provided us with examples of the best.  He has written mini-biographies about fifteen Warriors, ranging from Napoleonic times until the Yom Kippur War.  Some are well known, while others are more obscure.  

The author chronicles the Warriors' amazing battlefield deeds, but also analyses their inner motivations and defining experiences.  What emerges are fascinating, if brief, character studies on each Warrior.  I found their contrasts to be quite interesting.  For example, British officer Harry Smith had a lifelong love he met while fighting Napoleon's legions in Spain.  In contrast, WWI scribe Frederic Manning apparently lived a celibate life.  "Humane and intelligent" Civil War hero Joshua Chamberlain was loved by his men, but WWII RAF squadron commander Guy Gibson's harsh mannerisms alienated his subordinates.  Some were successful in and out of combat, while others struggled with civilian life.  WWI flying ace Eddie Rickenbacker was a high achiever in all of his pursuits.  As for WWII hero Audie Murphy, he struggled with inner demons and never really fit into a life without warfare.  And so on.

Each Warrior's contemporary society and formative years are mined for clues about what shaped them.  Family influence and station in life are analyzed, the impact of intellect and education (or lack thereof) is examined, and the effects of combat and wounds on their psychological makeup are investigated.  From this foundation, Mr. Hastings identifies the similarities that possibly made these men (and one woman) stand out from their peers in the art of war.

"Warriors" is a fascinating and well-written tome.  It quickly supplanted other books I was reading, and was difficult to put down.  Indeed, I wish it had been longer.  But Mr. Hastings has provided captivating insights into the Warrior's character and motivation.  Some struggled with life, others were difficult to get along with, and a couple came to tragic ends.  But all inspired me.  Highly recommended for the military history buff
