In "Apex Hides the Hurt," Colson Whitehead plays around with essentially the same setup he used in his intriguing "John Henry Days." Once again a hip African American New Yorker, with a cool media job, ventures to Flyover Country, meets the local characters, some hotel guests and staff, and learns a lesson about himself.

Apparently Mr. Whitehead felt that if it worked once, it could work again. He was far from wrong. "Apex" has a lot going for it. The "hero" is a (paradoxically unnamed) nomenclature consultant, who ventures to a town named Winthrop, which is involved in a controversy about whether to keep that name (as the last of the Winthrops wishes), revert it back to its original name, Freedom (as the African American Mayor wishes), or change it to New Prospera--the later at the urging of its prodigal son, a software magnate, Lucky Aberdeen, who comes off as a cross between Bill Gates and Dr. Phil. The consultant is tasked with choosing one of the above names, or recommending a new name entirely--one that the town is contractually required to keep for a year.

In flashbacks we learn that consultant's star turn was renaming a fourthrate bandage whose manufacturer was trying to rebrand it as the one to buy if purchasers want one that exactly matches the color of their skin--it comes in 30 shades of flesh tones. He renamed the rebranded product "Apex." ("In its natural state, it possessed one of the great product suffixes of our time. The Holy Ex. A classic.") And also in flashbacks we learn why he walks with a limp. All this gives Mr. Whitehead the opportunity to score points on race and class in America (although, fortunately, not at all didactically).

The author's prose swirls around like a jazz improvision. He can riff on anything; and he gives his readers a great sense of place--the hotel scenes are perfect, especially his description of guests on their last night there before returning home. And, as in his previous novel, he provides some hilariously surrealistic scenes (e.g., the insane cleaning woman who becomes furious when the consultant puts up a do not disturb sign). Unfortunately, "Apex" also has the same flaws: the author simply can't (or won't) change his pace. There's nothing in the way of a climax or a sense of closure. Mr. Whitehead arrives on stage, performs his set, and it's only after he takes his bow and starts to leave the stage that you realize it's time to think about applauding him. You probably will, but maybe you won't get out of your seat when you do
