The town of Kingsmarkham in Sussex is having one of the hottest days on record, the heat absolutely blistering as Chief Inspector in Wexford and his friend and colleague, Mike Burden are called to a shocking crime scene. Nineteen-year-old Amber Marshalson has been mutually murdered from a blow to the head, her body found in a corner lane not far from her home. 

Amber's father George Marshalson is quite devastated; the spoilt Amber was apple of his eye. She now leaves behind a young son named Brand who is being raised by Diana, Amber's frostily aggrieved stepmother. It doesn't take long for Wexford and Burdon to figure out that the Marshalson's were somewhat dysfunctional, their lives mostly defined by petty grievances and jealousies. 

Amber's teen pregnancy came as a terrible shock to both Diana and George, and the fact that she actually went ahead and had the baby and then broke up with her boyfriend was also cause for concern. Both had taken most care of Brand since he was born, with Amber hating Diana almost from the start, preferring to party at the local Bling-Bling club than take on the responsibilities of motherhood. 

There are few clues to the murder, the tall handsome Ben Miller who dropped her off was the last person to see Amber alive, but he can offer no explanation for what happened.  As the stultifying heat of summer wears on, Megan, a young acquaintance of Amber suddenly goes missing, her rotting body later found in a derelict house. 

Are these two murders connected? And how could Amber and Megan - both girls from remarkably different social classes  - have known each other?  Amber came from a well-off if not rich background, where college was considered, whilst a mother generally called a single parent bought up the poor Megan in various dumps, and where she most likely left school at sixteen to become a shop assistant. 

Through author Ruth Rendell's complex and multi-layered plot, these two girls are destined to clash, their destinies forever interlocked. Wexford and Burden are increasingly mystified when they discover white powder and bundles of cash in Amber's bedroom. And why did the two girls go on a sudden holiday to Frankfurt? Were they perhaps involved in drug smuggling?  

Meanwhile, several months ago a man with a hood had been seen on Yorstone Bridge at the time of a fatal car crash, a crash that was perhaps meant to kill Amber. He'd also been seen among the trees by the lane where Amber was eventually killed. Various suspects begin to loiter in the shadows, the focus eventually tightening on twin brothers, interior decorators who were working on the Marshalson house at the time of Amber's murder.

As the menace builds and the alibis of the suspects become more unassailable, the gradual unveiling of the mystery reflects Wexford's own strained relationship with Silvia, his daughter. The father-daughter relationship remains tentative, as Wexford struggles to understand why Silvia has decided to become a surrogate mother and bear a child for her ex-husband and his infertile, self-obsessed girlfriend. 

Literally peppered with a cast of thousands, End in Tears can at times be a dense read. Particularly notable is her inclusion of a sizeable subplot involving one of Wexford's colleagues, Detective Sergeant Hannah Goldsmith and her romance with Detective Constable Bal Bhattacharya. The old and new world's clash in a subtle lend of blend personalities and yearnings, as Bal attempts to approach their relationship with a type of old world sexual caution. 

Many of Rendell's characters - even the police - are far from sympathetic, all struggling with their own petty insecurities and prejudices. In the end, the novel spirals into a complex web of events, as the real identity of the killer is finally made known. Despite it's convoluted plot, End in Tears is always taut and controlled and it's themes of class, family and even surrogacy are compellingly relevant. 

As usual, Rendell excels in describing the somewhat insular world of Kingsmarkham and it's surrounds, it's still a community somewhat at odds with itself, continuing to struggle with issues of multiculturalism and the modern family in a rapidly changing world, where even "love doesn't excuse everything." Mike Leonard September 06. 
