Regarding Iraq: "[I]t is incontestable that on the day I left office there were unaccounted-for-stocks of biological and chemical weapons." So said Bill Clinton in July of 2003 (on CNN). Why weren't they found then? Iraqi General Georges Sada offers an explannation in this book of his. On June 4, 2002, a three-mile-long irrigation dam collapsed n Syria. "Flood waters covered an area of nearly forty square miles." When "Syrian president Bashar al-Assad asked for help from Jordan and Iraq, Saddam knew what he would do. For him, the disaster in Syria was a gift, and there, posing as shipments of supplies and equipment sent from Iraq to aid the relief effort, were Iraq's WMDs. Weapons and equipment were transferred both by land and air."   Of the latter, General Sada, former air vice marshall in Saddam Hussein's military, says there were 56 flights of commercial Iraqi passenger aircraft from Iraq to Syria. They were "quickly reconfigured" "transforming the passenger planes into cargo planes" that were then used to transport "hundreds of tons of chemicals, armaments, and other paraphernalia into Syria under the cover of a mission of mercy to help a stricken nation." General Sada says the Syrian through whom the above was coordinated was General Abu Ali, a cousin of Bashar al-Assad. "For once in the long history of belligerence between Iraq and Syria, there was complete agreement between them." "They arranged for the operation to be conducted like a regular business deal, & everything was paid for, up-front and in cash." Sada knew Saddam; was brought out of retirement by Saddam after the Kuwaiti War. (A war during which Sada, albeit briefly, was arrested after refusing an order by Saddam's son Qusay.) Sada was regularly consulted thereafter. Sada remarks herein too how "Saddam had spread the idea that we didn't have to worry because nobody was going to attack us." Sada "had heard him say it many times." Sada telling Tariq Aziz (from London, where Sada had been sent as an emissary of Iraq) that the UK was going to hit Iraq, thus fell on deaf ears. Sada once also cautioned Saddam that trying to launch an air attack against an American aircraft carrier was hopeless. Moreover, Saddam wasn't aware of the capabiltities of cruise missiles until after Baghdad was struck by them during the 1991 Gulf War; having asked his air force commander: "tell me how it's possible that we were struck so hard without warnings of any kind. The air-raid sirens didn't even go off. How could his happen?" Saddam, of course, wasn't running a government, but a big crime family, a regime, in Sada's words, "not built on the basis of skill and efficiency," but "on the basis of blind loyalty to Saddam" wherein 2+2 was 9, or whatever subordinates thought Saddam wanted to think it was. Sada, by his own admission, however, "had a bad habit of saying that 2 plus 2 is four." Sada thinks he was able to get away with divulging unpleasant realities to Saddam owing to the fact that Sada was not a Muslim.  As an Assyrian Christian Sada could never be a power broker, or threat. Sada also details how Saddam was not at all hurt by sanctions; nor his loyalists, thanks to "the gift of the president," a bonus progam of Saddam's paid to Baathist Party members (4-5 million folks). Where did Saddam get the cash to buy this loyalty? Oil sales. The full story: US naval forces in the Gulf, to police Iraqi sanctions against smuggling would test oil cargo to see if it betrayed the tell-tale properties that would suggest if it was Iraqi in origin. But what "the specialists & other officials didn't realize was that Iraqi smugglers had made a deal with Iranian smugglers." Contraband Iraqi oil thus was smuggled to Iran in exchange for the Iranian variety, which was then exported. Plus, "Saddam's agents were selling oil to Iran at very low prices, & Iran was shipping the same oil in the same ships from their ports, but under the Iranian flag" (to pass unmolested through the Gulf). An interesting book. (06Aug) Cheer
