mr forsyth got himself a typical hallmark problem: too many pages wasted on background buildup, once the main character showed up, forsyth would suddenly compulsively change into a history professor. 
when the story starts to unravel itself, you've got to go ahead and go forward and never look back. but forsyth simply couldn't do it, he got to take you back where this guy came from, tell you about this guy's whole family tree from the root to the tree top with all the branches and leaves on them.  
hey, all i want to read is the storyline going forward not going back again and again. but he simply couldn't do that; he got to take you back, take a round trip every time when a new guy walked in on the stage.
this typical problem is also often found in other authors. robert crais, almost every one or two chapters, many chapters with letters either in bold or italic would be inserted, forcing readers to go backward, to have some autobiographical lessons, about that person's childhood, family history, his father either a drunk or a drug addict, someday just walked out and disappeared, abandoned his wife and his kids; his mother then got cancer, fell ill, the hero of this book had to either grow up in forster homes or orphanage, blah, blah...
well, these flashbacks or trace backs actually killed the flow, the tempo, the integrity of the storyline. it's like somebody already out of the door and on the way to some place, but then, he suddenly realized or imagined that he might forget lock up his front door or, even left his keys on the door, he got to go back. 
almost all of forsyth's novels got such habitual problem. his most seriously going-back novel is his 'icon', almost 2/3 of that book was wasted in telling about the past. sometimes it's so tiresome to read along. i've found myself always been forced to turn around with the author to go back to start from a new beginning again and again. mike martin took the job to infiltrate a.q., then, well, we got to turn around to look back from how he grew up with his brother, how he joined the sas, how he fought on falkland island, how he went to africa, how he went to yugoslavia, kuwait, iraq, afganh....we were forced to read how bin laden, taliban.....and so on. do you know how many pages were wasted on these back stepping stuff? but of course, he wrote well, did every book with in-depth and objective research. but ain't it sometimes too tiresome?  
