While there was a great amount of greed that contributed to Enron's downward spiral (illegal investment vehicles, ridiculous executive salaries and corporate perk largesse), what makes this different from the cornball `big bad greedy company causes its own downfall' tagline, though, is the book's thesis that business machismo caused Enron's collapse. Note the Enron culture of landing big deals, particularly in new industries and tertiary markets where Enron could be viewed as a trailblazer. Enron loved landing front-page news of its deals; what it failed to do was to see them through and ensure they financially contributed to the company's well-being.  As well, during the Jeff Skilling era, there was a constant and unhealthy fixation with Enron's stock price. Enron's corporate performance was directly pegged to the stock price; Enron executives begged, borrowed, and stole to ensure rosy financial statements and a love-in with Wall Street bankers and analysts. Never mind that Enron was bogged down with loser, capital-draining businesses (Broadband, Enron International) that were causing liquidity problems even years before Enron declared bankruptcy. As long as Enron was making deals and the stock price was high, everything was sunny.   

Of course, this perversion of corporate values was partly attributable to Enron's leaders; particularly the now-deceased Ken Lay and Jeff Skilling. Not only did they turn a blind eye to and even encourage many unethical, and borderline illegal, schemes, their continual denial of responsibility for anything that went wrong and bland assurances to anyone that would listen that everything was going great while the Enron ship was sinking rendered them irrelevant and fostered an `inmates running the institution' mentality.    

As gripping as Enron's collapse really was, I would have liked more of a discussion as to what it was that caused Enron to be so accomplished and respected. Enron's successes seem to be taken for granted; it would have been nice to have more context as to why it was that Enron exerted such power over the `Street. Additionally, the book largely ends with Enron's declaration of bankruptcy in late 2001. I would have been interested to read about the congressional hearings and criminal/civil trials implicating the various execs discussed in the book that followed; perhaps this could be inserted in a future edition?  

In the end, this is a case study that indicts not only the morally bankrupt Enron executives but also the starry-eyed bankers and accountants that largely enabled Enron's deceptions. This age old "Emperor has no clothes" narrative is immensely entertaining, even to those with little understanding of business. 
