Perhaps like you, I love biographies.  I find real life so much more interesting than fiction anyday.  While many people find major issues with this book, I found it to be a good read.  I believe each book should be judged against itself, rather than others of the same subject.  This book will entertain you for many hours. 

Taraborrelli seems to really like Elizabeth Taylor, who is a complex woman, that had a complex life, and complex relationships.  He does a good job of covering Sara, her mother, who pushed her early career.  Sara would mold Elizabeth into what Sara wished to be, this would cause Elizabeth grief as she grew older and matured into a woman. 

Her early marriages are not covered very well.  It can be difficult to see what drove Elizabeth into the arms of so many different men.  Growing up a sheltered life, may have left her with an unrealistic impression of what real relationships should have been like.  Elizabeth goes from man to man until really, Richard Burton, who is the focus of the book's marriages.  This may be due in part to the public fixation on that coupling.  It may also be the best documented marriage of her life. 

While the book does cover her life well, it is not a complete picture.  Taraborrelli, is a fan of Elizabeth Taylor, and you can tell this in the way he writes about her.  While he occassionally goes over her faults they are really just mentioned in a way that does bring harm to her.  You can definately tell that he loves her, and cares for the person he writes about. 

His way of writing makes the book an easy read.  The chapters are short, and concise.  He brakes up different people, events, and subjects of her life very well.  I do have a complaint about the book not having many pictures.  I wished that this biography would have contained many more pictures rather than the small selection that it contains.  If you are looking to learn about her, and her life, I feel this is a good selection to start your reading adventure about Elizabeth Taylor
