 
"I never thought much before about this figure (Satan) because if you are around liberal forms of Christianity, as I am, one doesn't hear a lot about the devil. It's almost something of a relic. But the concept of the devil is integral to the way that Christians understood their lives, and the conflicts of the world in which they lived,..." Elaine Pagels 



Ancient History of Satan: 
The English word 'Satan' is from a Hebrew word meaning 'to oppose' or 'an adversary.'  'Devil' is from the Greek diabolos (to slander). Satan, also commonly known as the Devil, is the 'Prince of Darkness,' Beel'zebub, Belial, and Lucifer. Satan was sometimes called Samael, in the Talmud and some Kabbalist writings. In Islam, Iblîs (Arabic), is the leading devil, commonly referred to in the Qur'an as Shaitan (Satan), who whispers doubts and promotes human wrongdoings. 

Tanakh's Adversary:
Satan plays various wicked roles in the Judeo Christian tradition. In the Tanakh, Satan is an angel whom God uses to test man for various reasons, usually dealing with his level of piety, as in the book of Job. Here, Satan appeared with other angels "before the Lord, in heaven. "When God asked Satan where he had been, Satan replied, "From roaming through the earth and going back and forth." The fall of Lucifer, who was cast out of the heavens for rebelling against God, and condemned to roam the earth and rule hell, appears in Isaiah 14, for the first time after the post-exilic period. The idea of this ultimate agent of evil was most likely introduced by the Persian prophet Zoroaster as the Prince of Darkness, whose ideas introduced Demons to humanity for the first time. 
Ezekiel relates him to the serpent of old, "Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God," and mentions his fall in 28:15 "Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, till iniquity was found in thee." Later on, Jewish rabbis came to depict as 'satanic', anyone opposed to the Law (Halachah). 

Inter/new Testament:
During the inter-testamental period, 'The war of the sons of darkness and of light' was an essential theme in the Essenes thought. In the Apocrypha, Satan represents the forces of evil, thought to be responsible for all the sins recorded in the Bible and, according to legend, the shofar is blown on Rosh Hashanah in order to confuse him.  In the New Testament, the term Satan refer to an evil, rebellious demon who is the enemy of God, causing affliction to mankind. Satan and his forces were frequently cast out by Jesus, indicating the approach of the Kingdom of God, as vividly clear in the synoptic gospels. St. Paul emphasized that, "Our contest is not against flesh and blood [human beings] but against powers, against principalities, against world rulers of this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in heavenly places (Eph 6:12). 1 Peter 5:8 declares, "Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour." Satan returns in the end of times, in the Apocalypse, as the main adversary seeking the capture of souls and making the whole earth his kingdom, and battles God's archangel Michael. 

Satan's Social history: 
The Origin of Satan, is Pagels social history of evil, that traces the development of the devil as a figure of evil as represented in the New Testament Gospels. 
She admits that, "It's always struck me that the Gospels, especially the Gospel of Mark, have a sense of evil spirits as a real part of the world."  In an interview she summarized her approach about this topic, "You can discuss questions of theology and God, of the social and cultural origins of these figures, what they mean psychologically. But I decided to focus on what this subject matter had to say about the way that we see ourselves and other people, about the cultural identity... and group identity... of Christianity." 
She elaborates that, "Even if they don't take Satan literally, it provides a way of thinking about opposition, for people who aren't Christians, or who were raised Christian but abandoned much of their faith. It's like an architecture in the mind, a cultural construct that becomes the way that people think. When Reagan called the Soviet Union an 'evil empire,' or Bush called Saddam Hussein 'the devil,' people might have said that they were merely using silly political rhetoric, but it resonates quite deeply in the American psyche, and one wouldn't have to believe in Satan for those images to work powerfully in his or her mind." 

The Ultimate Reviews: 
"Where Pagels' work is at its most effective and rewarding is in bringing to the subject a deeper human desire for a resolution of this fundamental problem of reconciliation than mere academic theology can offer. Stimulating and provocative, this book is an eminently humanitarian attempt to understand the identity of evil and assimilate it into a yet deeper understanding of our historic identity and ultimately our origin. It's recommended to anyone with an interest in these basic human issues." Francesco Spagnolo 
"Pagels is especially brilliant in her writing about early apologists and forgers of church doctrine such as Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Origen, and Tertullian. Pagels is no ground breaker in her chapters on the first and second centuries of this millennium. But, like our own bishop (J. Spong), she illuminates contemporary scholarship, making it accessible and vivid to non-academic readers." Rev. Mark Lewis, New Jersey 

A Lady Gno'velist? 
Elaine Pagels is perhaps best known for 'The Gnostic Gospels,' a groundbreaking popularization of the Coptic Gnostic Library, but she has also authored several popular works that dealt with the historical and cultural roots of Christian faith, and the Coptic Gnostic books. Paul Mankowski, S.J., of the Pontifical Biblical Institute has recently asked that, "Pagels should be billed accurately -- not as an expert on Gnosticism or Coptic Christianity but as what she is: a lady novelist. Her oeuvre is that of fiction -- in fact, historical romance." 
Dr. Pagels describe herself in the introduction, as 'a Western world historian,' she never claimed to be a Coptologist, a qualifying title to judge how vivid is Satan that in Coptic Baptismal liturgy Satan is rebuked with all his evil forces, the same way St. Anthony did, as she quoted from 'The Life of Anthony.' 
