In the prison yard the name called out was Maslova.  Her story was a common one.  She was an orphan raised by maiden ladies of the land-owning class.  She was spoiled and declined offers of marriage.  

The nephew of the old ladies, a prince, came to stay with them when the girl was sixteen.  Five months later she knew she was pregnant.  The ladies let her leave pursuant to her own request.  Her baby died in a foundling hospital.  

Katusha as she then was called moved from position to position.  By this time Katusha could go into service or enjoy the easier life as a resident of a house.  Katusha Maslova chose the life of chronic sin as Tolstoy characterizes the situation.  She lived this way for seven years.  

Prince Dmitry Ivanovich Nekhlyuda, her seducer, was summoned to serve on the jury in criminal court.  The prisoners were brought into the courtroom.  The third prisoner was Maslova.  The prince thought to himself, no it cannot be.  He wondered, whether Katusha Maslova recognized him.  

Maslova's attorney asserted that she had been led into a life of debauchery by a man who remained unpunished.  Viewing her, Nekhlyudov believed that Katusha was certainly the same person she had been in her youth.  Nekhlyudov felt she was innocent of both the theft and poisoning charges.  

The jury made a mistake in writing out its findings for the court.  As to Maslova, what was omitted was a finding negating an intent to take a life.  Her sentence, therefore, was penal servitude in Siberia.  

The President of the court advised Nekhlyudov to speak with the advocates to correct the mistake.  Nekhlyudov felt that since he had something to do with Maslova getting on the wrong path, he must take measures to correct her situation.  Once he realized that he was bad, others were no longer so disgusting to him.  

Marriage with Missy, a member of his class, no longer seemed so probable.  Nekhlyudov came to see that the persons being tried in the law courts were not the evil-doers he had previously supposed.  Indeed, he himself was a deceiver and a rake and no one was trying to punish him.  He told the procurator he wanted to follow and marry the prisoner Maslova.  He stated that he now considered all judging useless, immoral.  

Maslova dealt with her pain by the trick of disassociation.  Nekhlyudov's initial words to her centered on his wish for forgiveness.  Nekhlyudov expected Katusha Maslova to be pleased.  She was not.  Furthermore, it seemed she was not ashamed of her position.  She is a convict and he is a gentleman and  prince.  She does not believe he really wants to marry her.  

The prince tries to put his affairs in order to enable him to travel to Siberia if necessary.  He rents the land from one estate to the peasants for a nominal rent.  Maslova's position of appeal to the Senate is denied.  As Nekhlyudov  prepares his things to follow Maslova and the prisoners to Siberia, he perceives that he has lived through something very hard and very joyful and that he has experienced an inner change.  

The description of the procedures used in the transport of prisoners are as fascinating now as when written since, inter alia, the camps of the Czar were the predecessors of the camps of Stalin.  The theme is the blindness of the upper classes to the suffering of those below them.  

Maslova is allowed to join the political prisoners and thereby escape the harassment of the general convicts.  Maslova values and admires the political prisoners.  Nekhlyudov comes to change his mind about the revolutionists, (they were being treated  harshly, as if in time of war).  

Through the prince's efforts, Maslova's sentence to hard labor is commuted to exile.  Maslova seeks to release Nekhlyudov from his self-imposed task by marrying another person, one of the political prisoners
