In "The Pioneers," Natty Bumppo, the adventurous hero of "The Last of the Mohicans," is 70 years old and has become disenchanted with a young American republic whose rapidly advancing population and government encroaches upon the free-spirited life to which he is accustomed. Natty's run-down shack is allowed to stand at the pleasure of Judge Marmaduke Temple, a well-meaning yet stern patriarch who received a vast land grant at the end of the Revolutionary War and who builds a town whose existence depends on the rule of law and order. The plot of the novel flows from the inevitable conflict between the advance of this new civilization and the claims of the rugged individualists who can barely abide its rules.

In his Preface, Cooper warns the reader that the book contains none of "the strong excitement that is produced by battles and murders"; unlike his later books, this is no adventure story. Nevertheless, he still manages to animate his novel with daring heroics, melodramatic chase scenes, and daring rescues. Also adding suspense are the appearance of a mysterious young man (whose identity is fairly obvious, but no matter) and the secrecy of what Bumppo is hiding in his cabin.

After several briskly told opening chapters, about two nearly disastrous accidents, Cooper slows things down a bit, describing the Judge's household, the townsfolk, and their churchgoing and barhopping ways. Because the Judge's relatives and friends range from blustering pretenders to crusty old-timers, these sections are filled with unexpected humor. (But one does have to wade through an awful lot of prose about the weather.) Fortunately the last half of the book is fast-paced, including a hilarious yet oddly electrifying court trial and jail rescue.

Some readers have been tempted to interpret Natty Bumppo as a primitive Howard Roark figure--an early libertarian struggling against the capriciousness of government overreach. There's a bit of truth in this thematic approach, but such a portrait doesn't take into account the novel's earnest environmentalism (a topic on which both Bumppo and Temple form an uneasy alliance). And the characters of the Judge and his daughter are far too nuanced, likeable, and honest to cast them as enemies of limited government and rugged individualism. Instead, Cooper paints an early American landscape that is sympathetic to both sides--to both the pioneers of Temple's new town and to those who, like Bumppo, came before them and paved the way
