I have to say, I'm becoming a major fan of Lyn McConchie.  She's proven very adept at writing what I call "comfort novels", the engaging kind of fare I love to read on a snowy winter's evening, curled up under heaps of quilts and comforters while the snow falls and the wind howls across the eaves.  Her latest title, "Silver May Tarnish", is such a book.

Given that Lyn has co-authored several other of my favorite Andre Norton titles, among them "Ciara's Song" and "The Duke's Ballad", she has gotten very comfortable working in Norton's world of Estcarp and Karsten.  "Silver May Tarnish" is Lyn's first work set across the ocean to the west, in the land of High Hallack, more commonly known as "The Dales".

Long-time Norton fans will know that she first introduced the Dales in her book "The Year of the Unicorn" over 40 years ago.  Under the influence of an extraterrestrial race called the Kolder, evil men from overseas called the Hounds of Alizon introduced futuristic super-weapons to the Dales.  The results was great ruin throughout the land, as Alizon laid waste to innumerable dales, smashing mighty stone keeps like fragile teacups, scorching the land, and slaughtering innocents by the thousands.  Eventually the Dalefolk were able to gain the upper hand and, at great cost, expel the invaders.

It is a distressing, all-too-common feature of the evening news that lands wracked by total war can take generations to recover.  Even when the enemy has gone, anarchy reigns:  heartless "wolfshead" bandits wander through the lands, bereft of property, craft and kin, eager only to destroy and make everyone else suffer as well.  They have no thought for the future; they care only about satisfying their lusts for food, drink and women, no matter the cost.

But some handle such adversity more nobly, such as the chief protagonists of "Silver May Tarnish".  Lorcan of Erondale was only a boy when Alizon invaded, destroying everything and everyone he loved.  He became a warrior and fought the enemy to the bitter end.  Then he set out to find a new home, with thoughts of healing the land rather than further harming it.  Of like mind is Meive, sole survivor of the massacre of Landale.  She, however, does not leave her ancestral home, popularly known as "Honeycoombe", because of a special gift she has:  a great rapport with honeybees, including a special giant sort of "winged warriors" with inch-long stingers who can handle invaders with frightful aplomb.

It is inevitable that at some point Lorcan and Meive will meet up.  They share a special kinship, both with each other and with the chief villain of the novel, Hogeth of Paltendale.  Will Lorcan and Meive achieve their dreams of bringing life once more to Honeycoombe?  Or will evil ones like Hogeth tear all their hard work down, leading to yet another mass slaughter and endless woe?

As Andre Norton did in some of her own Dale novels, Lyn takes turns writing from the viewpoint of both protagonists:  a few chapters at a time with Lorcan, then a few with Meive.  Sometimes the storyline overlaps, as when Meive early on rescues Lorcan from bandits, and we get to read the account from both viewpoints.

One of the things I appreciate about Lyn's work is her characterizations; she writes with warmth about sympathetic, believable people whom the reader comes to view as friends.  We mourn when certain ones are killed off, and rejoice when things go well for others.

An interesting side note:  as "Ciara's Song" and "The Duke's Ballad" both refer to songs within the story, so too "Silver May Tarnish" refers to "a sword song" found at the start of the book, as well as a ballad printed on page 235 of the paperback edition.  In all cases, the songs help to set the tone of the stories, and are a nice touch.  I can even hear the music.

I don't know if Lyn plans on writing any sequels to "Silver May Tarnish", but I'll eagerly read any that come along.  Andre Norton's death in 2005, after an incredibly long and productive career, left a definite void:  no one will ever be able to write science fiction and fantasy like she did, over more than 70 years spanning eight decades.  But Lyn McConchie has found her own voice, and the worlds Andre created live on.

