Black Rose, the second in the In the Garden series, focuses on Rosalind (Roz) Harper; head of Harper House; owner of the In The Garden nursery; mother to luscious Harper (as well as Austin and Mason); close friend of Stella Rothchild; distant cousin by marriage (on her late husband's side) and friend to Hayley Phillips; hot babe; temperamental; difficult. I could go on, but you probably get the picture. Roz is a powerful woman who works at maintaining control of her life. This can be difficult when ex-husband (#2...a mistake), Bryce Clerk, makes a serious effort to make her life miserable.
 
When the situation with the Harper Bride (the ghost) turns very dangerous in Blue Dahlia, Roz decides to hire a professional to find out what's up with the ghost (whose name we learn is Amelia). Enter genealogist, Dr. Mitchell Carnegie, in Black Rose. Mitch's arrival on the scene adds new energy to Roz's life (though she seems to have plenty of that already), some anxiety, and a growing passion for the handsome (of course), brilliant, kindly man who has come into her life.

At the same time, Hayley Phillips, who came to Roz about six months pregnant in Blue Dahlia, gives birth to baby Lily, named after the red lilies Harper Ashby (Roz's eldest son) brings to the birthing room just before Lily arrives. There's an underlying sexual tension growing between these two as the story develops and, by the end of Black Rose, the stage is set for Red Lily, Hayley's story.

Meanwhile, the ghost continues to act up as Roz and Mitch's relationship heats up. Mitch spends more and more time at Harper House studying journals, photos, and other Harper family records and documents, which upsets Amelia. She has a healthy hatred for men. "They lie. They all lie" (she mind talks to the women). She continues to sing to the young children, whom she obviously adores. As Mitch's research continues, a picture of a woman, perhaps a mistress who gave birth to a child by a Harper ancestor and is then cast aside, begins to emerge. But just what is her problem? Why is her spirit still earthbound? The answer will come, hopefully, in Red Lily.

Carolyn Rowe Hill
