This book has done something that you don't see often done in discussions of people talking about "the sky is falling" in that which concerns the environment.

The last two chapters are the pinnacle of the book. (I don't know if it would have been anticlimactic to put them at the beginning.) What was done essentially was to show that human damage to the environment was not a new thing that just came with the industrial revolution. Another thing that I particularly like was his stripped down description of the *assumptions* that went into the calculations of how fast different species on the Earth are vanishing and how much of this is attributable to human excesses. (Most people that talk about overpopulation use the thoroughly outdated Malthusian model and think that we're going to starve to death.) This is as close as most lay readers are going to get to a hard-core derivation and it turns out to be suitable: We don't need such a rigorous derivation to understand most of what he is talking about (as that might lose most of us), but we do need to see enough to understand that the basis of his argument is solid.

On the bad side, he didn't quite tell it right when he said that human and chimp DNA were 98% similar. Maybe it wasn't necessary to go into a long discussion of introns and exons, but it would have been nice for him to admit that no one really knew what was the genetic similarity between humans and chimps because neither had been sequenced at the time of the books writing. Now that the human genome is known to contain around 40,000 genes, his calcuation may be quite wrong.

I can also see a little bit of thematic overlap with "Guns, Germs, and Steel." He gave the basic idea of why European societies advanced at a much greater rate than most others. Writing a whole book about the salient points in those chapters would certainly likely be overkill.

Overall, a great effort and worth the read if you don't want to be suffocated with the detail of Guns, Germs and Steel. Diamond's writing is still not quite as good as that of Richard Dawkins (in making topics easy to digest), but it is very close
