Night of Stone is a curious book, not quite entirely history or psychology or spirituality. It is Catherine Merridale's contribution towards an understanding of some of the ghastliness of Russian history. As spirituality is beyond me, I'll make no attempt to relate what Merridale says on the subject. As for the rest, it is a somewhat horrifying look and mankind at its lowest.

The order is generally chronological, and touches on everything relating to death in Russia. The early chapters go back into the Nineteenth Century, making the recording of eyewitness descriptions impossible (unlike much of the book). But we see how Russia handled funeral rituals and what sort of superstitious and religious beliefs people had throughout the country. This is not comprehensive, but we read accounts of how village doctors, after traveling long and hard to reach their accursed postings, found the people untrusting and woefully uninformed. Likewise, we see the grip the church held on the peasantry. Even in death it wouldn't let go, charging exorbitant fees for funerals.

As we move into the Twentieth Century, we get a long look at how the Soviet state handled death rituals. Religious funerals were frowned upon, leading to the curious invention of the communist funeral. Some mention is made of Lenin's death, and how the party tried to preserve his body as a way of defying mortality. The trade-off between burials and cremation is covered. And of course, there is talk of the purges and the war.

I see that my last two paragraphs look awfully jumpy, as if the book is a mish mash of trivia. In some sense, that's not far off. Merridale does not leave any topic behind, but of course her prose pulls it together is a more seamless fashion than I have done. The work is, I think, meant to try to reveal the Russian mind-set on death by showing how its various aspects flow together in society. I don't know if it is successful or not.

Moving along, starting with World War 2 and the repressions, we start to see events that have survivors today, and that's where things start to take off, because Merridale spent considerable time in Russian interviewing a variety of people. What was it like to survive the purge, and a gulag? Or to fight in the war? How did people handle it emotionally, especially in a society where the party said `thou shall not feel', `thou shall not mourn', `thou shall not lose your mind', and you will die when the party tells you to, not sooner, and not later? Here, with actual people to talk to, Merridale gets as close as she can to the meat of the book. And finally, now that the Soviet beast is itself dead, how does modern Russia deal with its own past. There are many millions of bodies buried out in the Russian countryside, and often the sites have been covered over and forgotten. Shall they be exhumed? And identified? And is it worth it? Who should answer for them?

Historically (which is how I tend to evaluate such books, other readers may have other criteria), Night of Stone is both fascinating and over-reaching.  At times there are too many ideas and subjects for the space assigned to them. But on the other hand, there are enough gritty details of human drama to satisfy the urge to understand the Soviet Union and its overwhelming worship at the altar of death. The Bolsheviks were, if nothing else, death cultists. The purges. The famines. The civil war. The Second World War was forced upon it, but its reaction and methods showed its death cultism. I, for one, was reminded again of why I wouldn't want to live in Russia at any time in its history, however fascinating it may be to read about. But it is a gloriously gruesome and fascinating book, and on a topic that speaks to our inner darkness.
