This isn't really about the "origins" of the Mithraic mysteries.  In fact, the author - David Ulansey - states up front that Mithraism is architecture rich but literature poor.  Since the religion was reserved for initiates and apparently nothing was written down, we don't have papyri or parchments as we do for the sister religions of the day, including the brand new sister religion, Christianity.  Ulansey also respectfully criticizes the work of the man responsible for most of what many people currently believe about Mithraism, Franz Cumont.  In Cumont's view, Roman Mithraism was related to the worship of the Iranian "Mithra," so the Roman artifacts were viewed through that lens.  Ulansey takes this view of Roman Mithraism and sets it aside, in essence starting all over.

What Ulansey then does is take the reader through this Roman mystery cult through the surviving art and iconography.  Roman Mithraism rose in the 1st century CE and was overwhelmed by Christianity in the late 4th century.  Ulansey examines the persistent patterns in iconography - the ubiquitous "slaying of the bull" and stars (the "tauroctony") and ties it in with the writings of Neoplatonist Porphyry and Greek Christian Origen to explain possible astral symbolisms of the tauroctony.

From there, Ulansey leads us into what he believes to be the astronomical representation of Mithras himself, based on surviving iconography, and then Perseus - another Mithraic figure.  In the process of doing this, Ulansey demonstrates a unique Roman mystery religion mentioned in Greco-Roman writings from time to time, far removed from the Persian Mithra and likely centered in the movements in the stars which would have been very important to the seafaring peoples of the Hellenized Roman empire.  His chapters on "The Meaning of the Bull Slaying" and "Mithraic Cosmic Symbolism" involve speculation indeed, but it is academically based and not unreasonable.

In short, this book should interest people who are students of ancient religions and the Roman Empire.  Ulansey's thoughts may or may not be vindicated in time, but they were thought-provoking for me.

