Almost three years ago I read a data structures book which used Java for implementation of the topics covered.  Perhaps I did not have a solid grasp of the Java language back then, but the book was one of the worst I have come across - I don't even remember the name.  "Data Structures and the Java Collections Framework" on the other hand is one of the most up-to-date books available and certainly one that I will remember for quite some time.

Not only does it cover the theory behind many of the fundamental data structures such as arrays, stacks, queues, trees, graphs, maps, etc. but it also illustrates common algorithms required by those data structures.  For a book covering this kind of material that would have been enough, but this book excels in showing implementations with the latest version of Java.

Furthermore, this book's purpose is not to teach Object Oriented programming with Java, or the latest features of version 1.5 (Generics, foreach loop, boxing, vararg).  The author assumes those were taught in an introductory Java course.  Thus, the book does accomplish its goal to teach data structures using Java, and taking advantage of OO design and the latest features of the language.  And for those who need a quick refresher two review chapters are included that quickly cover the most commonly used features of Java, as well as javadoc and packages.

As many other technical books, this one contains its share of typos and errors - nothing major though.  Later in the book, only parts of the entire implementation of certain data structures are presented, but yet there is no mention that the book's website contains that and more.  Also, an introduction to JUnit could have made this book better. 

The part that readers will find most useful about Mr. Collins' book is the future applicability of the Java Collections Framework.  There are many poorly written books that deal with data structures and books about the Collections Framework.  And yet this book does an outstanding job with the two subjects. A great book to learn data structures from - Highly recommended. 
