&quot;Freedom's Daughters, The Unsung Heroines of the Civil Rights Movement From 1830 to 1970&quot; brings to light the names, known and unknown of the countless women who carried the civil rights struggle on their shoulders.  From the early Underground Railroad conductors, such as Harriet Tubman (who would brandish a gun at hesitant or frightened slaves who stating &quot;You'll be free or die&quot;) to First Lady Eleanore Roosevelt, to the firebrand radicals of the 70's...all aspects are opened to view. The practice of slave owners using their black slaves sexually, and the dehumanization of blacks. The split in the early suffergette movement, when some women couldn't support voting rights for black men. The rise of brutal lynchings, excused by the fear that black men would rape white women. The constant battle of &quot;are we pushing enough, or not enough?&quot;.  The real threat of jail and beatings and death. The delicate balance that had to be maintained between women and men in the civil rights movement.  All these sensitive subjects are discussed.  The  true heroines of this book are the women who took the first steps, despite the certain retribution that awaited them. Women who spoke out on the horror of lynching.  Women who sought equal education despite race and sex. Women who walked instead of riding the Montgomery buses. Women who walked into lunch counters and diners and asked to be waited on.  Women who opened their homes and what little they had to Freedom Riders.  Women who spent countless hours trying to encourage others to register to vote, to continue with education, to face the uncertain future with dignity.  These names should be household names, Ida Wells, Jo Ann Robinson, Virginia Durr, Pauli Murray, Lillian Smith, Ella Baker, Diane Nash, Casey Haden, Anne Braden, the children of McComb, Missippi, Septima Clark, Fannie Lou Hamer, Bernice Johnson Reagon, Penny Patch, Laura McGhee, Annell Ponder, June Johnson, Joyce and Dori Ladner, Gloria Richardson, Mary Dora Jones, Annie Mae King, Hazel Brannon Smith, Viola Luzzio, Eleanore Holmes Norton, Martha Griffiths, Shirley Chisom, Ruby Doris Smith Robinson, Annie Devine, Unita Blackwell, Ida Wells, Sarah Johnson, Johnnie Carr, Ida Mae Holland, Joan Browning, Cornelia Smith, Fitzgerald, Mary Church Terrell, and others who worked at their side....women who saw a great wrong and did what they could to right that wrong. It is a revelation that so many people made a choice to act in whatever way they could.  It is inspiring to temporarily share their history.  This is a comprehensive and unflinching look at a shameful portion of our history and a story that still reverberates today
