Robert Liparulo's Comes a Horseman is one of those classic good vs. evil stories that, done properly, can be a lot of fun.  Happily, for the most part, Liparulo does succeed and his book is generally entertaining.

The "good" in this story is a pair of FBI agents.  Brady Moore is a single father, his wife having been killed by a drunk driver.  The incident continues to affect him deeply, and only his son Zach is able to keep him from descending into alcoholic self-destruction.  Alicia Wagner is his gung-ho partner.  The two are pursuing an especially brutal serial killer who decapitates his prey; there seems, however, to be no link between the victims.  The link is actually rather subtle; each has had a similar experience in his or her life.

The killer, a modern-day Viking with a set of vicious wolf-dog hybrids, is actually not your standard psychotic, but is instead working for Luco Scaramuzzi, a low-life with high aspirations.  He has discovered a cult of high-powered people who are dedicated to empowering the Antichrist.  Luco is working on conning these folks into giving him immense wealth and power by pretending he is the Antichrist; he is doing such a good job at it that he begins to believe he actually is the figure.  

This novel is reminiscent of Jon Land with its global conspiracies and larger-than-life villains.  The focus is much more on action than suspense, but Liparulo knows how to make the reader turn the pages.  Although I suppose this nominally fits into the category of "Christian fiction", there is very little that makes it different from other thrillers, outside of the absence of any sex and a couple Bible references.  

For a first novel, Liparulo has done well, but there is room for improvement.  There are little flaws here and there, but the biggest is the conclusion which is way too abrupt.  Although it does follow logically from events earlier in the book, it just brings things to an end too quickly.  The final confrontation in a thriller should be the most elaborate and exciting, and Liparulo doesn't really pay off.  It's not a bad ending, just one that could have been better.  This is a good novel, but there's little that indicates that there can't be great ones in this author's future.
