Dr. Feingold's book saved my sanity in 1985 through this book!  My daughter who was absolutely unable to follow directions, or  listen for more than one minute is just the beginning of descibing her challanging behavior before applying this book to her life!  She was so hyperactive it meant a day of running around in circles, running up a wall, jumping off of furniture, absolutely &quot;crazy&quot; actions constantly.  Our lives with her were sheer he--: trying to go out in public, attend religious events, visit friends/relatives, go to the park or groucery store meant an exhausting, unpleasant experience!  I had taken her to a nutrionist, allergist, &amp; psychiatrist to find an anwer and help.  No specialist was able to help.  I bought this book figuring that we were running out of hope; let's try it.   I read this book and began following Dr. Feingold's methods exactly as he writes.  Within four days my daughter's behavior changed into a normal functioning small child.  My mother came to visit us on the fourth day of the Feingold Diet and was upset thinking that I had heavily medicated my daughter because her behavior was totally normal for a child her age!!!!!  I explained what I did:  exliminating all foods and starting fresh from scratch and slowly reintroducing foods.  My daughter has NEVER been medicated for hyperactivity or any behavior disorder.  We only fed her what was well tolerated.  THIS BOOK IS A MIRACLE TO OUR LIVES!!!!!!!  From 1985 to today has been a wonderful experience with my daughter!!!!!!  She has been very successful in school (including college), sports, popular, and a pleasure to be around!!!!!  This is the complete truth.  I hope that other parents will take the time to get the book for the child who is &quot;uncontrollabe, hyperactive, or unfocused&quot; and follow it!  The initial few weeks are difficult but it is worth every ounce of energy utilized!!!!!  Please, for your sanity and your child's acceptance get and practice Dr. Feingold's methods to your child's life; it works!!!
