A Wrinkle in Time is a delightful science fiction, fantasy novel that revolves around three main characters:  Meg Murry, Calvin, and Charles.  Meg is a twelve-year old girl who doesn't think much of herself and does poor in school except in the areas of math and science. Calvin is a bright fourteen-year old teenage boy who is very popular at school and is great at sports.  Charles is Meg's five-year old brother who most people think is stupid but Charles has extraordinary powers to know what others are thinking in their minds.  Throughout the story, the children travel through time and distant planets facing good and evil to try to rescue their father who has been captured and held prisoner by an evil force named "It" on a planet called Camazotz. "It" is a creature described as being a living brain without a body that can control all of ones thoughts and actions. It is finally through the power of love that Meg destroys the creature and saves her father.
	I feel this novel was not only influential to me, but many of us could also relate to the character Meg. Meg believed that she was neither smart nor pretty and what she finds out through the wrinkle is that she knows more than she thinks Meg just needs to have more confidence in herself.
 Before I read this novel, I really didn't think it would be interesting or exciting in anyway. The only reason why I read it was because my teacher wanted me to; however, at the end of reading this novel my opinion changed and I thought it was a really interesting with many details.
	A Wrinkle In Time shows that all people have to perserver to get though those hard times. Depending on whether your scared or something's to difficult, you always need to break through those challenges. Lastly, love conquers all things.
	What I have gained from reading this novel is that I should never give up and always do my best. I believe that this novel has helped me gain confidence in myself and to realize that I am smart and I can do it. . It showed me that there's always going to be a bump in the road and I just have to have the endurance to get over it. 
