It was a dark and stormy night. A violent thunderstorm was raging on a frigid June night in 1816 as five young people gathered inside the Villa Diodari, a luxurious summerhouse on the southern shore of Lake Geneva in Switzerland.

Lord Byron, 28, already the most famous English poet of the time, opened a volume of German horror stories translated into French, and began to read from it.

As the wind howled and the lightning flashed and crashed, and with his four listeners becoming more frightened and agitated, Byron proposed a contest: each of them would attempt writing a ghost story.

The other four people present were the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley; Shelley's mistress (who would later become his wife), Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin; Mary's stepsister Claire Claremont; and Byron's personal physician, Dr. John Polidori.

Mary Shelley rose to the challenge and penned a classic work of literature, described at the time as a Gothic novel but better described as science fiction, which depicts a scientist who creates a monster over whom he loses control. The novel was Frankenstein: Or, the Modern Prometheus.

Although John Polidori produced a lesser work, The Vampyre, it was a story that inspired another classic novel, Bram Stoker's Dracula.

The fierce storm of that summer in 1816 was an omen of future tragedy, for nearly all who gathered that night were dead within a few years of Frankenstein's publication.

The Monsters is the true story of geniuses who, refusing to abide by society's rules, lived selfishly and loved promiscuously and passionately, bringing "the curse of Frankenstein" upon others, including innocent children whom they sired or to whom they gave birth.

Although Byron and Shelley figure prominently in this narrative, the central character is Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley (1797-1851), the creator of Frankenstein's monster. She suffers most from "the curse of Frankenstein," becoming witness to the death of many loved ones--including all but one of her own children.

Dorothy and Thomas Hoobler provide extensive background information on Mary Shelley, such as vivid descriptions of her parents, Mary Wollstonecraft ("the first feminist") and William Godwin (one of the founders of anarchism). They also draw fascinating portraits of the freethinking Romantic poet, Percy Bysshe Shelley (who coauthored "The Necessity of Atheism") and George Gordon, Lord Byron, a notorious bisexual rake described (with apologies to Napoleon) as "the most dangerous man in Europe."

Oscar Wilde wrote: "Yet each man kills the thing he loves, by each let this be heard, some do it with a bitter look, some with a flattering word. The coward does it with a kiss, the brave man with a sword!"

The moral of this book is that our monstrous natures can destroy not only ourselves but also those whom we love. Or, in the words of Pogo, "We have met the enemy and he is us."

The Hooblers, authors of the novel Darkness, Death (winner of the 2005 Edgar Award) and of non-fiction works such as We Are Americans: Voices of the Immigrant Experience and The Voyages of Captain Cook, have created, in The Monsters: Mary Shelley and the Curse of Frankenstein, a remarkable, incredibly fascinating narrative. 

Under their creative hands, the people in this story, although long dead, resemble Frankenstein's monster; they rise, live and breathe, and wander to and fro upon the earth. Well-researched and well-written, The Monsters is a supremely impressive story, a truly unforgettable book
