Shadow of a Dark Queen is the first book in the Serpent War Saga by Raymond Feist. The action takes place on Feist's world of Midkemia and once again, Feist does a fabulous job of describing this rich and detailed world. Having read all the Feist books up to this one I was curious how new characters would be introduced and how the plot line(s) would change from previous books. My fear on long running story lines is that they become stale and un-interesting after awhile. That is not the case here; Feist continues to weave a wonderful tale that leaves the reader wanting more.

Feist starts off this book by introducing the main characters Erik and Roo. Those who have read Magician: Apprentice will see the similarities between Erik and Pug right away and Roo and Tomas as well. However, it is done in such a way that it seems new and there I not really more than a fleeting thought of the similarities between the pairs. 

As with the earlier novels, the character development in this book is second to none. From the very beginning of the book it is easy to care about the characters and pull for them to make it through the problems they face. The journey that Erik takes through this book is one of heart-ache and perseverance, but is not filled with clichs that some `modern' fantasy authors fill their books with. Just for the character development alone this book is worth reading, yet there is also a fantastic plot as well.

There is of course the main plot that being the beginning of the serpent war, but there are several sub-plots sprinkled throughout the book. I will not post spoilers in my review, but suffice it to say the small sub-plots help add depth to the characters and make them more real. Feist spends a great deal of time fleshing out the serpent war progress and making sure the reader understand just how big of an army is amassing, yet does not come off as the sole purpose of the book. When I first started reading this one and realized this massive army was taking form was a little disappointed, in that it seems a lot of recent fantasy novels have these large scale battles in them now. However, this one seems different somehow. I can't make a conclusion because the saga isn't over yet, but it doesn't 'feel' like the others.

If you are contemplating reading this book and have read (and enjoyed the past Feist novels have no fear with this, I am confident you will enjoy it. If for some reason you didn't like a past novel by Feist, I would still recommend giving this one a shot - new characters, new setting, it's a good read. If you are just coming into Feist's work I would recommend you start at the beginning with Magician: Apprentice and go from there, that way there will be no spoilers for you and everything will make much more sense. All-in-all though I highly recommend this book to fans of fantasy novels and people looking for a solid fantasy author without all the theatrics of some authors now-a-days. Very good read.
