     There is something infectious about Voyage to Arcturus that kept me reading to the end, even though I did not always understand it 100% or like the writing that much.  I think the quality that kept me interested lay in the powerful imagination and other-worldly beauty of its imagery.
     
I should start by warning the potential reader that Voyage to Arcturus, although nominally grouped with science fiction, is not really a science fiction novel.  It's more of a fantasy where the action is imagined to take place on another planet, as in the Edgar Rice Burroughs novels or Star Wars, for that matter.  VtA is set on Tormance, a planet of the star Arcturus(archaic name for the North Star), which turns out to represent a binary star system.  
     
Also, the plot is not really akin to anything in the current scifi/fantasy pantheon--at least that I'm aware of.  It's a complex, symbolic allegory, in the style of Pilgrim's Progress or the George Macdonald books.  In particular, I think Lindsay was directly inspired by the Golden Key, which you should read only after finishing VtA, as I did, because it might actually weaken the experience.  However, the allegory of VtA is not restricted to the Judeo-Christian world-view as in its predecessors, but appears to examine multiple world-views, religions, and life philosophies of human history, although not necessarily in the order of human history.
     
The plot consists of what is actually a journey ON Arcturus, not TO Arcturus.  The journey is taken by the central character Maskull, an earthling, who subsequently explores the geography on Tormance, meeting a series of the planet's inhabitants.  On Tormance, Maskull finds that he is not restricted by abstract laws of humankind, nor even the physical realities of Earth, at times even sprouting new limbs and sense organs! 
    
As a second cautionary note, I fear the two drab introductory chapters about how Maskull came to Tormance may have lost the book a number of potential readers over the years, as they nearly lost me. The opening begins with a seance and seems to prepare the reader for some sort of ghost story, which greatly belies the flavor of the work.  You should definitely at least skim to where Maskull begins his journey on Tormance in the red desert, as this represents the true starting point of the story.  
     
Again, I find that the main strength of VtA is in the fantastic vision and power of its better scenes.  The other-worldly images are reminiscent of the great video games of the late 80s, such as Space Harrier, Rygar, and possibly the animation of Aeon Flux.  The reader should alow himself to be pulled along through the book by the story and suprising imagery, rather than attempting to decode the allegory like solving a Rubix Cube.  As the powerful scenes and images replay themselves in your imagination, the sense of the work will begin to seep into your subconscious. (I think)  Some of my favorite scenes/characters include Oceaxe, Matterplay, and the initial encounter with Sullenbode.  But something different will take the fancy of each reader, I am sure.
    
As a final note on the editions, you should seek out the Ballantine Adult Fantasy edition, for virtue of the superior cover art, which adds to the reading experience.
    
