This is the middle book of the Snopes trilogy, and it seems like Faulkner has  significantly changed his perception of the Snopeses.  The Town and the Mansion were written much later than the Hamlet, and it's clear that they're written by a more complex person.  It seems that the Jefferson of The Hamlet has an idealized honor that is being stolen away by the invasion of the amoral Snopeses.  However, by the Town, the honor held by the locals is shown to be largely in their own opinion.  We do see something slipping away, but it's not altogether clear that it's worth preserving.  The shift makes for a much more interesting book.

Additionally, there's the maturation of Eula Varner, something beautiful in the South if not altogether pristine, and she is lost in this middle section of the trilogy.  Her suicide says something about the South's willfull destruction, the outgrowth of a deal with the devil, but it takes some further mulling to fully absorb her.

There are three first person narrators guiding the reader through the news of The Town.  Unfortunately, one of them, Charles Mallison, is an enormous yawn.  Faulkner is usually fantastic with the first person children (Sound and the Fury, The Unvanquished), but his heart isn't in this one.  Fortunately, the others are much more interesting and make the novel fly.  Gavin Stevens is similar to father Compson in Sound and the Fury, and I believe one of the mouthpieces for Faulkner himself.

The Snopes trilogy is interesting in that it shows the maturation of a writer and the deepening complexity of his views.  This trilogy didn't end up in the vein in which it was started, and that's a very good thing.  Not my favorite Faulkner, but ambitious as hell, and that's the real reason to read him in the first place.  When he pulls it off, there's nobody better.  If you're already hooked on him, the trilogy is worth doing, unlike Sanctuary and Pylon, which are just downright miserable (regardless of what Sartre had to say about them, the putz)
