I've been updating my copy of this book since the second edition, and it is still the best book around for explaining the Java programming language to beginners in a classroom environment where there is an instructor to fill in the details. The book also succeeds at updating veterans on new features of the language and is a very excellent reference. Chapter two is great for customizing your programming environment, since there are always new versions of Windows and Solaris being released. Chapters three through six introduce the fundamentals of Java, including object oriented concepts. It would be best if the reader had some previous exposure to object-oriented programming, as teaching the theory of OOP is not really the focus of the book. Chapters seven through nine deal exclusively with Swing and graphics. The explanation of the Java graphical event model is particularly good and unmatched in any other book I have run across. The final chapters of the book deal with making sense of the "streams zoo" in Java and the newer feature of generic programming. Streams, used for file handling in Java, is very well presented here. This is good, since I/O in Java is probably unlike anything you will have previously encountered. There is also a dedicated chapter on applets which is a somewhat dated subject, but still necessary for a complete treatment of the language considering its roots. After you read and understand the code in this book you would do well to pick up a copy of "Java Swing" for an in-depth treatment of building user interfaces, as well as "Java I/O" by Knudsen for deep coverage of Java streams. Finally, pick up volume two of "Core Java" and continue your education in the more advanced features of the Java language. If you are a complete novice to the Java language, you would be well advised to buy "Head First Java", which works well whether you are learning in a classroom or if you are teaching yourself the language. Even if you are a novice, you are going to want to have a copy of "Core Java" around for reference
