I really enjoyed this second book in the Discworld series. So far I've only read this one and Color of Magic. I enjoyed Light Fantastic the most. In the Color of Magic it took me a bit to get the concept of rimward, hubward, plus the locations of cities and bodies of waters. But once I got my bearings I was able to read on and enjoyed the book.

I thought that The Light Fantastic was absolutely hilarious at times. Twoflower's attempt at trying to teach DEATH, Pestilence, and Famine how to play bridge was hysterical. Also, Twoflower's attempt to translate the word "bridge" - "a thing that you put across a river" - into a language understandable to Rincewind, et al. ends up being translated into the terms "aqueduct, fishing line, weir dam." Well, I can't do it justice but in the context of the story, it was pretty funny.

When explaining why the Unseen University doesn't admit women disapproves the use of magic by women, Rincewind's explanation is, "Unseen University has never admitted women, muttering something about problems with the plumbing."

My favorite character in this book was Cohen the Barbarian - feared and admired everywhere in Discworld for his bravery and swordsmanship. Unfortunately, when we meet him he is 87 years old and speaks in a lisp because he no longer has any teeth. He has arthritis, his knees hurt and his back freezes up at inopportune times. He is still brave and will fight like a barbarian to save the lives of others and himself and especially his 16 year old bride to be (When Rincewind tries to tactfully explain to Cohen that there might be problems in the love making department since Cohan is so much older - Cohan's reply was that he hoped that the girl could keep up with him). What a hero. But his reputation is somewhat deflated when Rincewind notices that "the old man had a large white horse tethered to a withered tree in a snow-filled gully some way from the circles. It was sleek, glossy and the general effect of a superb battle charger was only very slightly spoiled by the hemorrhoid ring tied to the saddle." To me, this was the funniest thing I had heard or read in years (especially in context). I couldn't stop laughing long enough so that I could continue reading. I'd start a little and then burst out laughing. This went on for a couple pages. 

Obviously, I really loved this book and I'm looking forward to reading Equal Rites and the rest of the series
