I generally dislike the  "coming-of-age" genre, but Soehnlein's novel "The World of Normal Boys" is an exception to that distaste. First, the fact that the novel involves a thirteen year old discovering his gay tendencies for the first time, while obviously overt, do not limit this novel to the gay interests only. What is craftily recorded in a plurality of ways involves all the typical emotions, reactions, distances, frustrations and alienation that a typical adolescent experiences, and is, I suspect, universally experienced, whether one is gay or straight. Second, Soehnlein is adept at conveying both healthy and unhealthy emotional responses by parents, family, friends, antagonists, and fantasies that carry themselves well into adulthood. Exposing these emotions for what they are, whether good and bad, is often helpful to one coming to terms with those emotions that often stigmatize one's life well beyond adolescence. Nearly the whole spectrum of emotions is raised at one point or another, allowing the reader not only empathy, but also compassion, for the predicaments that all of the characters find themselves situated. Third, Soehnlein craftily weaves into the novel a variety of human dynamics that are true of the world that all of us, to some extent or another, find ourselves in. "The World of Normal Boys" successfully depicts the vagaries of experience and the varieties of people we encounter, whether as a child, a friend, a parent, or beloved. Displaying these types of individuals and their capacity to help and harm us makes the novel insightful and provocative - making not only for interesting reading, but self-examination at the same time. Finally, I could not determine who this book is designed for, as it seems to be too sophisticated for a pre-adolescent audience, but not especially literate for an adult audience. It's kind of in between - a sort of "Lord of the Flies" type of novel. Certainly, an adult who has a troubled youth could find this novel especially insightful. Also, older adolescents may find much to relate to as they process their experiences toward adulthood. Finally, because of its overt gay themes, those individuals who have had difficulty coming out, coming to terms, and coming of age with their special sexuality will find solidarity with the main character. Being different at an earlier age often stigmatizes one for the rest of his life; this novel demonstrates that being unique or different actually adds color and zest to the pluralism of life. Recommended
