Isa is ruining my number one excuse for declining dessert, and most vegans know exactly what I'm talking about. Picture this scenario that all vegans have experienced countless times: you're at the office potluck/halloween party/family gathering. Post-meal, the desserts come flying to the table. As everyone lifts their forks grabbing their favorite decadent dessert, they stare at you. The strange vegan. Those who don't know you approach, and with a warm smile, offer you a slice of NY cheesecake. You decline politely, saying, "sorry, it has dairy so I don't eat cheesecake." Well, based on Isa's doing, I can no longer sit out from the dessert scene. I don't know if I should salute her or throw my bathroom scale at her since I no longer want to use it after baking from her new book. 

Similar to the reasons I raved about her cookbook, Isa's charming book of cupcake recipes is stellar. First of all, I challenge all omnivores out there to think of 75 possible cupcake combinations. Now take away the milk. And eggs. Oh, and one can't use any butter, so nix that too. Ah... that's better. Now one is introduced to the vegan-style baking that Isa makes so effortless for the rest of us who are ingredient-challenged. 

Before I learned how to bake vegan cupcakes from this book, I would trudge down to Sticky Fingers bakery in DC and cough up $4 for a product reminiscent of a 25-cent Hostess cupcake. While at the bakery I would hand over my money, gritting my teeth and reminding myself how lucky I am to live in a vegan-accepting city. Then, I would take a bite back to the 4th grade, pre-Vegan era. 

Not only does this book make baking a lot more economical and bring back those childhood memories, but these things are really frickin good. In the mood for fruity cupcakes? No problem. Craving rich chocolate buttercream? Simple. And delicious. And awesome. For all you closet vegans living in the heart of the south (and I'm sure you're out there), bake some of these cupcakes for the most die-hard fans of banana fosters and it will truly rock their world. I baked a variety of the cupcakes for a dinner party and when people saw them they asked when I stopped being vegan. 

What I'm trying to say: baking these delicious cupcakes are easy and the end result is phenominal. Not only is this cookbook revolutionary in that I can't think of another dedicated to the undiscovered art of cupcakes, but it's also one step closer to saving vegans from being known as the strange eater at the dinner table. Thank you, Isa Moskowitz, even if my growing thighs do not. How about for your next cookbook you introduce a low-fat vegan cookbook for those getting out of their cupcake-induced sugar comas
