In this installment of the Jack Reacher series, Lee Child takes a step back into Reacher's past...  The Enemy.

Most of the Reacher books involve current day action since Reacher left the military police and started drifting around the country.  But in The Enemy, you're dumped back into 1990.  Reacher gets a call on New Year's Eve related to a dead general in a hotel room.  Naked, with condom, but no partner.  No briefcase either, and that overlooked fact causes Reacher to wonder if perhaps the missing sex partner took off with classified material.  As he digs a bit deeper, he learns that he's not the only MP that's been pulled from duty in one location and stuck in a temporary position on a state-side base.  The generals who were *supposed* to meet with the dead general claim that there was no agenda to the meeting, although Reacher knows that *no* Army meeting is held without one.  Other people start turning up murdered along with the general, such as his wife and a Delta Force soldier on Reacher's base.  Jack's being squeezed by his new commanding officer to just write up everything as a "training accident", but of course Reacher can't leave well enough alone.  Throw in a personal relationship with his investigating partner, as well as his mother's terminal cancer and death, and Jack's got a lot going on emotionally and one wrong step can get him thrown into the brig for a very long time...

While this wasn't a bad novel in the series, it's definitely not my favorite.  I wasn't sure at first whether I had picked up an older novel in the series, or perhaps this was a book that Child wrote early on but that wasn't published until now.  In reality, he just decided to go back and fill in the blanks related to Reacher's relationship with his brother and how his military career made him what he is now.  The huge jump in chronology wasn't expected, and it threw me at first.  On top of that, I felt as if the story line was a bit convoluted and I was having problems following who was doing what.  While it's important to read the book in order to fill in more character blanks, I wasn't quite as spellbound with The Enemy as I was with other installments.

But that's not enough to stop me from grabbing Persuader off my shelf and starting that one now...  :
