'Emergence' takes the reader on a search for intelligent life. Specifically, the book attempts to answer the question, what is 'intelligence' and would I know it if I saw it.  In the author's view, intelligence is something that emerges from a system.  The actors in the sysem need not have any intelligence. Intelligence emerges from the interaction of dumb agents.  It is a property of the sytem, not an attribute of any one individual.  In other words, intelligence is like the 'soul', something of great importance, but entirely without physical genesis.  It isn't a chemical reaction, it is like static electricity: rub enough pieces together and intelligence emerges.

To demonstrate this, the book investigates systems which exhibit 'intelligence' (problem solving) without a central processing unit (or any individual intelligent unit).  His first example of 'system intelligence' is the ant hill.  Ants use the following formula for organizing the hill.  Rule 1: take trash to the trash dump.  2: the trash dump must be as far as possible from the hill. 3: take dead ants to the cemetery.  4: the cemetery must be as far as possible from the ant hill and trash heap.  The problem of triangulating the location of the cemetery, trash heap and ant hill can be seen as a geometric problem requiring 'higher intelligence'.  Johnson goes on to discuss how 'unintelligent' ants happen to be, but at this level Johnson is speculating.  He never discusses any experimental evidence on ant cognition (or problem solving abilities).  The setup is there, but there is no carry through.

After ants, Johnson turns to cities, both simulated and real.  Johnson uses cities to describe positive feedback loops.  He describes the notion of 'persistence through change'  (example: silk weavers have been on Florence's 'old bridge' for 1000 years) and 'energy management for possitive feedback loops': recycling wastes produced higher medieval crop yields, which produces more people and more wastes.  

After attempting to convince the reader of the complexity of cities, Johnson turns to 'global mind'. This notion of the 'global mind' reflects a popular myth that intelligence is a product of 'information cascades'.  In other words, just put a lot of people together and there will be 'information cascades' and this simply produces 'intelligent behaviors' despite that intelligence never being present in any one individual of the 'cascade' (see ant hill).  This is complete bunk, as shown by recent research on primate mirror neurons.

The book ends up begin an exploration of circular metaphors.  Consider the way Johnson uses the term 'emergence'.  At one point, Johnson retells the how the Clinton-Jenifer Flowers story came to life.  According to Johnson, the media moguls had spiked the story. The headquarters were surprised the next day when the story leaked out via CNN affiliates and got so much attention that the morning shows couldn't ignore it.  This all came to pass due to CNN's policy of letting affiliates pick and choose their stories from the raw news feed.  According to Johnson, when the mainstream media decided to allow affiliates to pick and choose the day's news, "that was the moment at which the system began to display emergent behavior.  The system began calling the shots".  I'm not sure what makes this an 'emergent' moment, it could easily have simply be a more democratic system, an expansion of the 'elector' pool or just a return to reality.

Many of the 'issues' are genuinely interesting.  Like many books of this genre, painting the picture is all the author seems capable of doing.  Making sense of it is a problem left to the reader. 
