Tom Antion is the kind of Internet guru you would like to meet for a cup of coffee, if you are pondering the thought of creating your own web site or perhaps fine tuning a site that it already up and running. Drawing heavily on his vast business experience, there is little doubt that he is extremely skilled in his craft of realizing the advantages of Internet-based marketing tools and techniques, as The Ultimate Guide to Electronic Marketing for Small Business demonstrates.
As pointed out in the book, one of the challenges of making a book based on the Internet is that the landscape is constantly changing. In order to address this problem, Antion has chosen to present broad-stroke principles that are vividly illustrated showing how to effectively use the Internet in selling products and services.
 
Divided into seven chapters, the primer uncovers a lot of gems pertaining to websites that kick, the website sales process, mechanics of website sales, creating a successful electronic magazine, product development, international websites, and some cool Internet stuff.
Within these chapters readers are immersed into information touching on topics as how to acquire powerful websites for virtually no investment, how to achieve high rankings in the search engines, building a massive e-mail database of people who want to hear from you, latest techniques in reaching your customers, reducing your customer service costs, using telephone seminars to enhance your cash flow, learning the psychological sales process of a website so that the site sells, joint venturing with others, writing articles for other e-zines, getting content for your site, freebies, use of various technologies to enhance your site such as blogging, and many other useful tips.

In addition, there are a great deal of subheads, web site references, a glossary of terms, and succinct summaries of each chapter, wherein readers are told what they need to know. Moreover, as the author mentions, there are a tremendous number of details to learn in order to successfully sell your products and services on the Internet. No doubt, questions will continually arise; consequently there is mention of handy sites that will assist the reader in securing the needed help.

As for Antion's writing style, it is casual and straightforward, devoid of technical jargon, that definitely enhances its practical value as an excellent primer for readers with a limited background in Internet marketing.

Norm Goldman, Editor Bookpleasure
