Tempest is the third book of the nine part Legacy of the Force series. This book focuses on the attempt on the life of the Hapan Consortiums Queen Mother Tenel Ka and the implications for the war between the Galactic Alliance and the Corellian system. It takes place just a couple of days after the end of Bloodlines by Karen Traviss.

This book surpassed my expectations, which were very high to begin with since Troy Denning is one of my favorite Star Wars writers and he had set up the LotF series so well in the Dark Nest Trilogy. The plot revolves around the new (but no better) Corellian Sytem Prime Minister Dur Gejjin trying to bring the Hapns into the war on his side with the help of Han and Leia Solo. This plotline is interwoven very nicely with the ongoing plot regarding Jacen Solo and Ben Skywalker which continues to shock and amaze. Luke and Mara Skywalker are also involved in this plotline and in this book the pieces start to come together a bit more and they finally are forced into a frantic confrontation with the Dark Lady  Lumiya. What made this book so good for me was that the action sequences were simply amazing, from begin to end they all felt compelling and full of Star Wars magic and they covered a great deal of locations and types of combat, from the Jedi Temple training vault on Coruscant to the marshy hunting retreat of a Hapan Noble family. The characters all felt spot on as usual with Troy Denning and I found that the overall GA/Corellia plotline continued to be both extremely plausable and throughly intriguing as it spread into the Hapan Cluster. I missed seeing Jedi Master Saba Sebatyne who only got a couple of mentions in the book but I certainly enjoyed the pair of Coruscant Detectives(a Bith and a Rodian) who tag along Luke and Mara Skywalker for a part story and I hope they might pop up again somewhere down the line.

I think that Tempest is the best book of Legacy of the Force so far and that is saying something based on how much I enjoyed both Betrayal and Bloodlines. It has great action, cahracterisations, plot and a number of shocking surprise thrown in along the way. I could't stop reading untill I had finished it. The only downside is that it will be late february 2007 untill book four; Exile by Aaron Allston is released
