There are tons of weight loss books on the market. Many of the authors have never struggled with their weight. Jackie and Diane are a mother and daughter who have lost 300+ pounds between the two of them. They know what it's like to be heavy. 

The two tried a number of diets and studied the diet books on the market. They came up with the simple conclusion. If you want to lose weight you have to eat less. You don't have to combine foods in a certain way, cut out carbs or exercise till you are blue in the face. You simply have to burn more calories than you are taking in through diet and exercise.

Throughout the years there have been many diet plans that agree with Jackie and Diane. Cut calories, move a little more - lose weight. Weight Watcher's members count points, Jenny Craig doles out low calorie meals etc. Many of these diet plans enable members to lose weight. The problem is people gain the weight back and usually a few extra lbs with it!

Jackie and Diane advocate a different approach. They advocate a system called EUCALORIES or normal calories. They suggest you select your goal weight, making it a realistic one and then multiply that weight by 12. For example if you wish to weigh 135, you would multiply 135 by 12 and get 1620. Start eating 1620 calories on a daily basis and eventually you will wind up weighing 135. It will take longer than if you cut to say 1200 calories BUT you are more likely to stick with the program...forever! Weight loss can be enhanced by adding in more excercise. 

There are drawbacks to the plan. Individuals do differ in their metabolisms, acitivity levels etc. So the actual calorie count per individual may vary. But in general Jackie and Diane say this method will work for most. 

One area Jackie and Diane address is dietary guidelines ie how many grains, veggies etc. you should eat. They use government guidelines By following the recommendations you will know how much and what to eat daily. HOWEVER the beauty of the method is, if you don't follow the recommendations..so long as you count the calories (baring medical problems) you should reach your goals. For good health though, it is recommended that you follow the guidelines most of the time. The recommendation for fats and oils is listed on p. 53 as 2 servings per week. This did not look correct to me and I emailed the authors. They said it was a printing error and it should be 2 servings daily.

Eating more calories but still losing weight is much easier than sticking to a low calorie diet, however, there will still be times when one has trouble. Eating protein will help with control. It has been shown that folks that eat a little more protein eat fewer calories and stay in greater control. Though Jackie and Diane touched on nutrients etc. They did not share this information and it is really crucial for many people who lose control when they eat too many carbs. It's not a matter of giving up carbs..its a matter of making sure you eat enough protein to regulate sugar surges.

The mental aspect of weight loss are barely addressed in this book and for two women that were 300+ overweight I think they could have discussed this.

The book is set up so it shares the plan in the first half and the second half is primarily recipes. Recipes include mushroom smothered chicken, ham and egg fried rice, banana muffins and smashed parmesan and roasted garlic potatoes. Each recipe includes calories, fat, carbs and protein. There is also a daily menu plan for 28 days spelling out breakfast, lunch, dinner and allowing you to select your own snacks. The back of the book includes a snack and calorie guide.

Kudos for Jackie and Diane for their tremendous weight loss accomplishment and thanks for sharing this new way of looking at how to do it!




