Francesca Lia Block, Weetzie Bat (Harper, 1989)

I've been hearing the names Francesca Lia Block and Weetzie Bat thrown around for a number of years, usually in relation to Block's novels being challenged in school libraries. Somewhere along the way I got the idea that they were horror novels, perhaps Buffy the Vampire Slayer for an intelligent, discerning audience. I couldn't have been more wrong; actually, Weetzie Bat and her creator put me far more in mind of Kathy Acker than Sarah Michelle Gellar (and I cannot tell you what a relief that is).

Weetzie Bat, the first of the five (as of this writing) novels in the series, is a rather short piece of work which introduces us to the characters, gets them into a few amusing and less-than-amusing situations, eventually rolling around to dealing with the situation that so many ultra-hip books were dealing with at the time (in case you're living in as much of a cave as I was, and are still under the impression Weetzie Bat is a vampire slayer, I'll not mention the nature of said situation) and which has since passed into the realm of such things as Lifetime Original Movies and sappy poetry. I say this because it's a warning to the unexpecting; you'll be tempted to read the crux of this novel as dated. (To an extent, the whole novel reads as dated; imagine, again, Kathy Acker, but as if Kathy Acker had been writing during the Eisenhower era; while the effect is quite wonderful, it does play up this effect.) I know it's something of a cop-out to say, and the inevitable flipside to it is "this hasn't aged well," but consider the time in which the book was written, and then take the nostalgic feel of the beginning and middle of the book and contrast it with the final chapter. A whole different picture emerges.

Unfortunately, if you end up having that many problems now, the simple fact is this book won't age well at all; by the time a new generation comes along, it'll resemble an improperly-stored camembert. All the more reason to read, and cherish, it now.
