My first introduction to Nathaniel Philbrick was this particular book, IN THE HEART OF THE SEA, which I bought over three years ago and kept it in my "to be read soon" stack. After hearing the recent reviews of Philbrick's latest, MAYFLOWER, also in my "stack," I pulled out IN THE HEART OF THE SEA and decided to read it. To say that I felt idiotic for not reading it sooner would be an understatement.

Many authors of factual-based books, regardless genre, don't have the touch to make non-fiction readable. (I noted with a chuckle the high school/college student who reviewed HEART OF THE SEA, and indicated how boring and dry it was...well, it was a class requirement, so of course it is boring and dry.) My opinion is diametrically opposed. There are a few authors that bring non-fiction to life: Roger Lowenstein (in business), Kurt Eichenwald (in business tales), David McCullough (in history), and, of course, the late Stephen Ambrose (in history). Philbrick can now be added to that list. While he doesn't present presumed dialogue like Eichenwald, Philbrick brings the story to life with titillating detail and gusto. 

HEART OF THE SEA introduces readers to the island of Nantucket in the early 1800s, where whaling was the primary, if not only, industry of any import to the islanders. At that time in history, Nantucket was considered the whaling "capital." Philbrick introduces the readers to the customs of whaleships, the ranks of the seamen, and the incredible journeys a typical whaleship made. Each journey, with little variation, took the seamen from their Nantucket familes for periods as long as three years. Upon return, they might only be with their families for a few months before the next voyage. However, given the dire need for oil provided by the sperm whale, and the riches it brought on the open market, this was a standard and fully accepted custom, not only by the seamen, but their families as well. 

The story within the story provided the basis for one of the great works of literature of all time; Melville's MOBY DICK. Philbrick indicates that Melville was ardent, and somewhat transfixed, by the story of the Essex, and its ulimate plight. Of course, MOBY DICK is a work of fiction, but it is centered in fact...that being the tale of the Essex.

IN THE HEART OF THE SEA revolves around the  whaleship Essex, which set sail for the last time in 1819 in search of sperm whales. Now, think about this: the whale hunt was to take place in the Pacific. The Essex had to sail from Nantucket (think Boston) in the Atlantic, around Cape Horn (the southern tip of South America), and then back north to the whaling grounds of the Pacific. No wonder these voyages took years! The Essex had a number of "events" occur before making it to the South Pacific, which, in hindsight, should have given the crew a hint that this, indeed, could be an ill-fated voyage. After having some decent luck in their search for whales on their way to the whaling grounds, an extraordinary and unprecedented event took place while the Essex's latitude was approximately the Equator. The Essex was rammed by an eighty-five foot sperm whale, twice, which sent the 228-ton whaleship to it's death in the Pacific. The crew, numbering 20, took the three available lifeboats, called whaleboats, and began pondering how they were going to survive, literally, in the middle of the Pacific, thousands of miles from any known civilization. While the crew was able to save some food and fresh water prior to the Essex going under, most knew it wasn't enough to make it. Their ultimate journey from the death of the Essex to rescue was filled with hope, dispair, and human behavior none of the seamen thought they'd ever consider or engage in. This journey is heartwrenching and fantastic.

Philbrick has put together an incredibly vivid tale bringing to life the tibulations facing each of the seamen of the Essex. Philbrick has given enough, but not too much, information on whaling, sperm whales, 19th century industry, and the culture of a seamen and whaleships to give the reader a firm grasp of the time without becoming inudated with minutiae. IN THE HEART OF THE SEA is an outstanding effort by a very talented author.
