I just finished reading this book and I think its a fairly elaborate thesis on Kupchan's vision of what the future will look like and what it should look like (if the US follows his grand strategy as the epicentre of its foriegn policy). Kupchan heavily draws from historical comparisons and parallels, despite himself making clear the fact that history cycles but moves forward at the same time. This shortcoming notwithtanding, I think his predictions are as rational and have as much a probability of occurence as any reasonable assumption by an intelligent human. I agree with Kupchan that Europe will increasingly posture itself as a rival pole to US supremacy. Clearly the emergence of France, Germany and Russia as a rival pole in the Iraq situation highlights this fact. With homegrown and Russian military help coupled with economic might of a united Europe, it is not inconceivable to think that European military can rival that of the US by 2010. I also agree with Kupchan that US hegemony is but temporary and like all civilizations before it, will come to an end. The emergence of East Asia as yet another pole is another prediction of Kupchan. This is where I disagree with Kupchan. I think China and Japan will not forge an alliance to establish their collective might. The big question is - Will there develop an India-Russia-China axis or will Russia align itself more with Europe. In effect, I think the direction Russia will tilt in, will be the eventual deciding factor in the development of the main adversarial pole to the US. I think Japan will at best be a player in the sidelines. Geopolitics aside I think Kupchan makes some interesting points about economics and culture. I think most American people do not realize the fragility of the world economy, where is everything is based on speculative forces in the market. With huge deficits, China (and the rest of the world) is in effect financing the US government for now. The moment Asian and European countries stop investing in US treasuries and bonds, it will lead to very bad times for the US economy. And nobody knows if Europe will be there to pick up the pieces and establish hegemony. In any case I would have liked Kupchan to elaborate more on this aspect. I also disagree with his premise of the motivations of the terrorists. I think increasingly the term "terrorism" will be misapplied and used to quell legitimate democratic aspirations of non-state actors by professed nation states. As the distiction gets increasingly murkier, I think the impact and power of non-state actors will rise and increase the chaos that already exists in the world. In any case, I think this book is a valuable addition to any collection on contemporary foriegn policy
