Disclaimer: I am a HUGE North Carolina Tar Heels fan, though I did not attend UNC and only lived in North Carolina for a year.

I started this book thinking that it would be a more or less thoruough examination of the North Carolina-Duke basketball rivalry (after all, the subtitle is 'A Thoroughly Obsessive, Intermittently Uplifting, and Occasionally Unbiased Account of the Duke-North Carolina Basketball Rivalry.'  However, while author (and UNC fan) Will Blythe interviews several of the key players in the UNC-Duke hatefest and documents the 2004-2005 season, he does not really do much to trace the roots of the rivalry.  

Instead, this book is like a documentary of the 2004-2005 season for Duke and UNC, which resulted in UNC capturing its fourth national championship.  The result is that recent incidents (like Shavlik Randolph's decision to go to Duke vice UNC) are overplayed while the deeper historical roots of the rivalry and the context in which the 2004-2005 season occurred with regards to the overall rivalry are downplayed.  

That said, if you don't mind the occasional unexplained reference to the circle of hell to which UNC fans consign Christian Laettner, this book is extremely readable and insightful, particularly when it comes to the lesser known stars at both Duke and UNC during the 04-05 campaign.  Blythe clearly got extraordinary cooperation from Melvin Scott and his family, which, while it doesn't really shed any light on the rivalry, is fascinating to anyone interested in the difficulties faced by today's players.  

Blythe has blended together three elements to fill out the narrative structure of the basketball seasons - interviews with principals (Mike Krzyzewski, Roy Williams, Dean Smith, JJ Reddick, and others are all interviewed); accounts of some of the critical games of the season, including both Duke-UNC matchups, and the author's personal account of his history with the rivalry.  This includes Blythe talking, at times for significant stretches, about his father's death, his mother's passion for the game, and other issues.  If you are not someone who likes their authors interjected into nonfiction work, you will find this to be the most disappointing part of the book, though I thought these accounts blended in rather well with the main thrust of the book.  

Blythe tries to place the rivalry and the importance of college basketball on some sort of larger conceptual field, not only by reiterating UNC's views on Duke (Northeastern elites who are carpetbagging to the south) and Duke's on UNC (hicks who will eventually be working for Dukies).  However, most of Blythe's efforts to explain the depth of the passion for basketball in North Carolina are vague and uninteresting; Blythe's riffs on the deeper meaning of the rivalry are the most uninteresting parts of the book.

The bottom line is that Blythe is an excellent author and is easy to read - I raced through To Hate Like This in less than 4 days.  However, he has produced an unfocused book that falls somewhere between his goal (apparently to write the definitive work on Duke-UNC basketball), a memoir of the Old South, and an account of UNC's championship run.  If you are a fan of UNC in particular, you will enjoy this book.  However, if you are a neophyte to the insanity that is the Duke-UNC rivalry, this book will likely leave you as confused as when you started.

