Although this is not a new book, I just recently got around to reading it - not coincidentally, after getting a copy of Bob Dylan's "Lyrics" and going nearly nuts tring to find a Dave Van Ronk songbook - there isn't one!  As I read through it (almost hypnotically over a three day period) I realized that it was filling in many gaps in information I had (or thought I had) about the four key people David Hajda focuses on in this amazingly estute, descriptive, personal and revealing bio-social-history.  Joan Baez, her sister Mimi Farina, Mimi's husband, Richard (Remember: "Been Down So Long It's Beginning To Look Like Up To Me?") and Bob Dylan (nee Zimmerman)were more than 'folk singers.' Dylan's protestations to the contrary, they cut a path through and into the fibre of the American consciousness in the early 1960's. Though Richard died you and Mimi followed just a few years ago, I think they would all agree that this is one heck of a good read!

That being said, it is important to remember that any history is the one that is seen and described by the historian - with his/her own eyes and through the lense of their own experience.  Thus, the title of this review.  Hajda has written what I believe to have been the case - with details so well developed that it is possible to get the feeling of being right there, in the coffee-house or in the cafe or in the room where the events and moments in the lives of these people are described.  I wasn't there - so I don't know for sure to what degree the events have been elaborated or fictionalized - but they sure DO fit well with what I wouuld like to believe happened.

The character of each person is not only described and discussed, but elaborated and painted by scenes, painted in much detail with words - they are painted by their actions. The book also includes a nice (but frustratingly limited) collection of black and white photos from the times involved including one particularly compelling portrait shot of the three Baez women (Joan, Mimi and their mom, "Big Joan") together with a young Bob Dylan.

None of them are portrayed as saints or as ego-maniacs.  They come across, rather, as talented people in a particular place at a particular time.  Their paths intersect - as the title suggests, in the West Villiage around Washington Square Park in New York City - popularly known both then and now as, simply, Greenwich Villiage.  The book helps us understand, in a more genuinely human and non-ad-driven way, who they were and what the impact was that they had - both on each other and on the rest of us.

If the music of this era is a part of who you are, I suspect you will find this book to be as magically engaging as I did
