A chilling account of life in a Siberian forced labor camp, it's amazing that this novel was even allowed to be published in the post-Stalinist era of the Soviet Union (it was later banned).  "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" provides a stark account of life stripped to the essential need to survive in the foreboding tundra.  Yet, it is not the weather that proves most oppressive, but the capricious cruelty of the Soviet guards and the system that supports them.

Sukhov, a.k.a. Ivan Denisovich, is a faceless number, one who escaped as a P.O.W. from German soldiers, but was labeled a spy. Although he is a model prisoner, he always expects a return for his generosity.  Every thing he does in the camp is calculated to benefit him.  Although he does not exploit the other prisoners, his self-interest consumes him.  Only the selfless Baptist, Aloysha, shows that true generosity expects nothing in return.  However, Sukhov cannot be blamed for having this attitude, for this is the only way he can survive his indefinite stay in the prison camp.

Undoubtedly, this novel has shades of "1984", as the real incarnation of Orwell's Big Brother state was the Soviet Union.  As in "1984", reality is malleable and can be twisted into any form desirable.  Otherwise innocent P.O.W's are determined to be spies, and they must confess, regardless of the real truth.  Soviet decree can declare that the sun is highest at 1:00 PM instead of noon, and it must be so.  The prisoners are captive to this new Soviet "truth" and must adjust their lives to fit it.  One's survival is dependent upon the acceptance of their "truth" and reality.

The Soviet ideal of collectivism and common good are best displayed in the prisoners.  Their camaraderie and cooperation is apparent as they work in the bitter cold, sub-freezing temperatures.  Yet, their prime motivation is to avoid further punishment, as their fear of reprisal proves the most efficient motivator.  Ironically, the Socialist ideal can only be achieved in a forced, oppressive environment, for freedom brings free choice and the desire to be achieve more than one's peers.

This novel shows how even the most meager of necessities, such as a small piece of stale bread, can be treasured and savored.  Sukhov makes the best of his situation and shows how ingenuity and his survival instinct can make even the most horrid conditions bearable.  Although the Soviet Union has been relegated to the ash heap of history, this novel provides a great insight to the horrors of a tyrannical government and the frightening potential of its unchecked power
