The first thing that strikes me about this book, aside from the paintings themselves, is the illuminating essay by Richard Vine. Mr. Vine, who also penned the essay for "Odd Nerdrum: The Drawings", is unique among those art critics who contemplate the nature of Nerdrum's work and philosophy. Not content to simply regurgitate what has been said about the work and the man, Vine delves into the images with confidently discerning warmth. The best part about Vine's locution is that he exudes integrity of approach, deftly able to ride the fence between partisan praise and aloof observation.  This is an important role in the burgeoning comment-mill regarding Nerdrum where the categories seem to be either/or. 

The second aspect (though intimately related to my first point) that pleases me in this 400-page monolith is its validity in the context of other books on Nerdrum. It would have been very easy for the publishers to simply cover the same territory as in past volumes. Fortunately for those of us who love and study Nerdrum's work, Gyldendal chose to create a definitive text that brings readers into the Nerdrum mythos from a different angle. This book inhabits a middle ground between the approaches of the two previous major books on Nerdrum, Jan-Erik Ebbestad Hansen's "Odd Nerdrum: Paintings" (1994) and Jan Ake Pettersson's "Odd Nerdrum: Storyteller and Self-Revealer" (1998), the former being distant and abstract and the latter being intimate and emotional. "Odd Nerdrum: Paintings, Sketches and Drawings" is a necessary work, filling in holes and fleshing out the aura of our favorite "black sheep" of painting. 

And those paintings (this book contains the highest quality reproductions I've seen)! One of the main reasons that I continue to buy different books on Nerdrum is that the work continues to change physically. He is constantly working and reworking. It is exciting to seek out images that seem different and then pouring over them to find the alterations. Look at the differences between the painting 'Transfiguration' in "Odd Nerdrum: Paintings" and the updated version in "Odd Nerdrum: Paintings, Sketches and Drawings". The difference is amazing and that is only one example of many. But with Nerdrum there is no zero-sum game; he is always bringing more work to the table, more ideas and more realizations. This book brings out both images from the past that we have not seen and new pictures from 2001 which, when considered together, help us to understand the transitions and developments in Odd Nerdrum's approach to life and painting. 

Let me finish by saying that anyone interested in seeing Nerdrum's drawings more closely ought to track down "Odd Nerdrum: The Drawings" (1994, New Orleans Museum of Art). This small book (65 pages) really should be reissued as it has a brilliant essay and provides a wonderful view of Nerdrum's process rarely seen. I was able to locate the book through an online out-of-print bookseller and it was worth every penny of the $62.00 I paid for it.

In any case, "Odd Nerdrum: Paintings, Sketches and Drawings" is a real treat and a first rate production. At this price the value is incredible. Very much worth the price and essential for Nerdrum followers and art students everywhere
