+++++

This book, by science writer Ann Gibbons, chronicles the race to find when and where the "missing links" between apes and humans first appeared.  Why did this race begin?  Answer: In 1871, Charles Darwin proposed in a book that there must have been earliest ancestors of humans and proposed where they probably lived.

Gibbons describes her book eloquently:

"This book is not a comprehensive history.  It is my perception of the quest for the earliest ancestors during the past fifteen years, as I covered the science of human origins for [the publication] "Science."  I have focused on the leaders of four teams that found the earliest members of the human family.  There are many other researchers whose work on the origins of humans is equally worthy but whom I could not mention for the sake of the narrative...[S]ome researchers urged me to stick [only] to the science and to avoid writing about the politics and personal rivalries [involved in the quest]...I found it impossible, however, to separate the human story of the quest from the scientific results...In the end , I decided to include personal details where they influenced the science or revealed the motivations of the scientists [involved in the quest].  My intent was to show the triumphs of the science of paleoanthropology [the study of the human fossil record and archaeology] and Darwinian evolution [evolution through natural selection] in the past century, despite personal battles and intense rivalries, false starts, and mistakes.  The science lurches forward despite the foibles of the individual scientists [involved]."

Gibbons lays out her book quite well.  Before she gets into the introduction, she includes four pieces of information that generally summarize her entire book and that are to be referred to occasionally as you read the main narrative. 

The first piece of information is an excellent map that's entitled "The Cradle of Humanity."  Here, the reader is presented the twelve sites "where the fossils proposed as the earliest known members of the human family have been discovered in the past century."

The next piece of information is an impressive table entitled "First Human Fossil Finds by Year."  The chart includes thirteen entries and spans the years (1891 to 2002).  Here's the 1891 entry:
 
YEAR: 1891; DISCOVERER: Eugene Dubois; SCIENTIFIC NAME: Homo erectus; NICKNAME: Java Man; AGE: 0.8-1.2 million (years old): LOCATION: Trinil, Java; SIGNIFICANCE: First fossil of early hominid.  Suggested Asian origin of humankind.

The third piece of information is an interesting chart that puts the discoveries mentioned in the book (as well as some not mentioned) into proper time line perspective.  This chart has the title "The Human Family."

The last piece of information entitled "The Fossil Hunters" presents very brief profiles of the almost thirty major people Gibbons mentions in her book.  For example, the discoverer Eugene Dubois (mentioned above) is descibed as follows:

 "Dutch anatomist and paleontologist [paleontology is the study of the fossilized remains of plants and animals] who discovered the first fossils of a hominid [in this book, this term is used to describe humans and their ancestors, and it does not include chimpanzees, gorillas, or other apes], Java man, in 1891 in Java, Indonesia.  He died in 1940 in the Netherlands."

 I was surprised how easy this book was to read considering the subject matter.  For me, it was so well-written that I literally had a difficult time putting it down.  Any science that was encountered was well-explained by Gibbons.

There are almost twenty black and white photographs found in the middle of this book.  The majority of these photos are of the main people profiled in the book but there are a few of some discovered fossils.

Something else I found useful was the brief glossary found at the end of the book.  The words defined above had their definitions taken directly from this glossary.

Finally, there are a few problems.  The major one concerns the photographs mentioned above.  I would have liked to have seen many more photos of the discovered fossils instead of the photos of the scientists involved.  However, this problem can be rectified by entering the scientific name of a fossillized hominid into an internet search engine.  Some of the internet pages you are directed to have fascinating images.

I also found a few minor problems.  First, the first numbered page just before the page titled "Introduction" is untitled and is not even mentioned in the table of contents!  At first I was confused by what I read and it was not until I finished the entire book did I understand its significance.  Not a good way to begin an interesting book!  Second, I feel that the glossary is an important part of this book.  But instead of coming right after the main narrative, it comes after the less important acknowledgements.  The acknowledgements should be either right at the beginning or right at the end.  Lastly, the book's front dust jacket has a picture of a fossil head above people working in a sandy area of land.  (This picture is shown above by Amazon.)   No where on this dust jacket is the name of this fossil head given.  Instead, you have to read through almost the entire book to find the name of this interesting and important fossil.

In conclusion, this is a must read for anyone interested in human evolution and human nature!

(first published 2006;  map;  fossil discoveries;  time line;  profile of fossil hunters;  untitled page,  introduction;  3 parts or 17 chapters;  main narrative 245 pages;  acknowledgements;  glossary;  notes,  bibliography;  index) 

+++++
