Lynee Cheney's `A Time for Freedom: What Happened When in America' is an interesting book which ensures that its readers, comprising of students and adults alike to be aware of key events that took place within its recent development from the arrival of the Pilgrims to the destruction of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. In this book, she outlines and reinforces the importance of such dates as 1492, 1607, 1620, 1776, and 1787. However, as she explains, an actual comprehension of American history cannot be explained with a presentation of dates exclusively. Thus, she places a great deal of emphasis on chronology. 

Along with chronology, Cheney also places a great deal of importance on the timing and the reasons regarding the occurrence of events, such as the Civil War, the assassination of Civil Rights activists, and the approval of the Declaration of Independence by the Continental Congress, the firing on Fort Sumter, and the attack on Pearl Harbor, as they would also be necessary in the understanding of America's history. In order to assist readers with that purpose, she has provided an illustrated timeline, replete with images, historic quotations, and also an explanation on why key events occurred in the order that they did. For instance, one image might show a battle that had taken place in the Civil War. Preceding that might be an explanation of the nation's expansion in the 1840s. 

While the majority of information presented in `A Time for Freedom: What Happened When in America' is readily available in other texts, Cheney presents it in a manner which is both logical and comprehensible. Moreover, one might be surprised to learn that at one point, the country had nine different capitals, among them Annapolis, Maryland and Trenton, New Jersey. It is also surprising to learn that many students, even at the collegiate level, believe that Ulysses S. Grant was a general in the Revolutionary War (and not the Civil War). In fact, inspiration for the publication of this text was driven by a study showing that only two-thirds of seventeen-year olds could recall the time span of the occurrence of the Civil War. 

In conclusion, `A Time for Freedom: What Happened When in America' is sure to be a valuable resource for students and adults who may have forgotten what they have learned from their studies of American history. It is also sure to be a useful supplementary text, in that provides information not found in other books, while presenting information already known from other texts in an otherwise comprehensible and attention-grabbing manner. Moreover, it will more than likely play a key role in allowing the denizens of American to appreciate how far the country has come to achieving freedom, as it presents a rather large list of contributors who transformed freedom from a dream into a reality. As such, it is highly recommended that readers in search of a supplementary history text or anyone interested in learning about a portion of American history that they may have forgotten or misunderstood consider and purchase `A Time for Freedom: What Happened When in America.' 

By Baron.
