General Overview:
I traveled to Switzerland by myself in 2005.  In preparation for my trip I bought two travel guides from amazon: Michelin's Switzerland: The Green Guide and Lonely Planet's Switzerland.  I used both guides to aid me in deciding which cities I would visit during my two week vacation.

Since I've bought and used other Lonely Planet guides (Germany, the Netherlands, and Belgium and Luxembourg), I found myself relying more on the Lonely Planet Switzerland book than the Green Guide when planning my trip in advance.  In fact, it was based on the Lonely Planet's great section on Lausanne that I opted to include that beautiful city as part of my holiday.  However, I did make use of the Michelin Green Guide to supplement the Lonely Planet guide (particularly for scoping out Grindelwald, Zermatt, and Zurich).  All of my actual hotel decisions were made using on-line reviews, but both guide books gave me a reasonable feel for how far it would be for me to walk from the train station to my hotel.

I ended up bringing both books (both are small and light weight) with me on my trip, and found that I did not need either book during the day.  In Switzerland most cities have a tourist information office located in the main train station.  These offices provide free stadtplans (city maps) that point out major points of interest, and I found these maps were easy to fold into my back pocket and enabled me to "be bold" and head off in places that were only vaguely described in the guide books.

Comparison of the Two Books:
The Green Guide really seems to focus more on tourism where you have access to a car.  All of the points of interest are linked to colorful major road maps, but the Green Guide is lacking in providing the foot/train traveler in good directions to and from the train stations.  Lonely Planet guides tend to be made with this type of traveler in mind, and though the Lonely Planet does a great job in describing self guided walking tours through major Swiss cities it too would sometimes talk about interesting castles, glaciers, or ice caves without providing specific foot or public transit directions (I ended up just asking the locals for directions ... and the Swiss are very friendly and easy to talk to).

Since part of my joy about experiencing Europe is living without a car, if I had to choose between the two guides, I'd recommend the Lonely Planet for most people.  However, in describing where I went and actually reading about the people and land itself, the Green Guide is a much more complete book.  When I return to Switzerland I'll be carrying the Green Guide and not the Lonely Planet.  The maps are really much better in the Green Guide, and the first 75 pages of the book offer a very detailed and comprehensive primer on what makes Switzerland unique and worth traveling to!

If you can afford both books, I would buy the Green Guide first and read those first 75 pages as a primer.  Then I start reading the Lonely Planet and use it to help narrow down which cities you'll visit.  Thought he Lonely Planet has some history information (~60 pages), it also mixes in general travel advice in the introduction to Switzerland section that really waters down the fun of reading about a new place!

