Frank Miller's "A Dame to Kill For" serves as his deeper, darker journey into the guts of Sin City and its motley crew of murderers, prostitutes and thieves.

Miller created the gold standard for noir comix with "The Hard Goodbye," his first graphic novel about Sin City.  "THG" introduced not only Sin City but also that glorious ugly lug of an anti-hero, Marv, wrapped in a dark, lovely tale of revenge.

"A Dame to Kill For" is actually a parallel tale in time to "THG," with Marv taking a co-starring role as temporary sidekick to his buddy Dwight.  Now Dwight may be a clean-living photographer at the outset of "Dame," but that's only because he is keeping the "beast" inside him under tight wraps.  As Dwight says, nobody knows exactly what would happen if the beast got loose, but everyone knows it would be no good.

Two things let Dwight's beast out from its chains.  One is booze, and Dwight can control that.  The other is dames, and there is one in particular that Dwight just can't resist.  Ava.  The sultry sexy mermaid Ava, who left Dwight for a rich bankroll of a husband a few years back.  What is poor Dwight to do when Ava shows up on his door, speaking seduction but planning his corruption and downfall?

Let the beast loose.

A complex tale of deceit, corruption, and vengeance, "Dame" may not hit the heights of "THG," but it comes pretty darn close.  Dwight is another anti-hero worthy of the title, and he gets to rub shoulders (and much more) with Sin City's other notorious denizens.

Ava is also a creation for the ages, as she twists men into pretzel after pretzel in her quest for . . . well, it's not exactly clear what she wants, but it's clear that she enjoys causing the suffering of men. 

Again, Sin City graphic novels aren't for the squeamish.  Bullets and blood fly fast and furious, and Miller's fantastic use of black-and-white creates loads of atmosphere and does nothing to diffuse the gore.  A must-read for fans of the mature graphic novel and of noir as well.  
