I give this book 4 stars because it does give a very good review of the history of Pi from which one can gain an appreciation of the difficulties of the long and sustained effort of man to understand the nature of Pi and its occurance in so many aspects of science and architecture.  Mr. Beckmann's frequent side comments on the debilitating effect of Christianity on the development of science and civilization is, however, disturbing to me.  It is my belief that that the church Our Lord founded, the Catholic Church, is the fountainhead of civilization.  

Mr. Beckmann's disorientation is the very thing that disturbed me in the University where I graduated with a degree in Mathematics.  The professors, it seemed to me, considered themselves to be smarter than 99.9% of the rest of us and had nothing but contempt for the average joes who provided them with well paying, tenured jobs.  

To find an example of Mr. Beckmann's anti-christian bias one need not search deeply into the book.  The first sentence of Chapter 1 reads: "A million years or so have passed since the tool-wielding animal called man made its appearance on this planet.  During this time it learned to recognize shapes and directions; ..."  

Christianity does not regard man as an animal and does not refer to man as "it".  From this fact our legal system was developed with special regard for man and the need to protect him from violence, theft, lying, etc.  Also developed was the University System to carefully contribute to man's education.  Not intended was for the University to be a platform from which to denature man.  

I would recommend this book only for people secure in their faith and experienced enough to separate the wheat from the chaff.  Knowledge of the history of the development of Pi is a good thing that can contribute to one's knowledge of history and an appreciation of the difficulty of human progress and the need to protect and sustain this progress.  Man losing his devine nature is not, however, progress and this book can contribute to that.           
