Robert Wilson's "The Blind Man of Seville", no doubt displays the authors creativity but bogs down as connections are made to tie the plot together.

Chief homicide inspector of Seville, Javier Falcon is atypically deeply disturbed by the abhorent murder he is presently investigating.  A celebrated and wealthy restauranteer Raul Jimenez is found bound to a chair, facing a TV monitor, in his apartment and gagged with his own socks.  The apartment is nearly empty as his family is in the process of moving.  Falcon and his team discover that the 70 year old victim had been forced to watch a video, apparently so horrible that he inflicted wounds to himself trying to extricate himself resulting in shock and heart failure.  What disturbed Falcon was that the victims eyelids had been incised off to assure that he would being viewing the terrifying video.  The homicide team quickly find a video in the apartment of the victim having sex with a youthful looking prostitute.  Circumstances point to Jiminez's young and attractive wife as the main suspect.
 
Falcon, who has recently divorced, is living his deceased father's palatial mansion.  Falcon's father, Francisco Falcon was a famous painter celebrated for his exquisite execution of five nudes of Falcon's mother, Pilar, which were considered masterpieces.  While Francisco Falcon was fabulously wealthy selling other pieces he was never able to again achieve the perfection of his nudes in other work.

Falcon, reluctant to enter his father's studio, finally does and discovers a will and a diary.  The will instructs Falcon to destroy all his work and implores him not to read the diary.  Javier's curiousity prompts him to read the diary which reveals many previously unknown facets of his father's life.  His father's story leads him from his expulsion from his family at 16 to his long service in the foreign legion through his experiences in WW2 fighting for the Axis.  He finally settles in Tangier, Morocco involved in the smuggling business and commencing his career as an artist.

The story become actually two stories that merge into one.  Javier continues to investigate the murder which turns into a multiple murder as the prostitute in the video also turns up dead.  Meanwhile Wilson narrates the diary of Francisco Falcon, which gradually reveals a connection to the murders being committed.  Falcon eventually becomes psychologically distraught as his father's diary has him question his own existence
