"Genevieve" is a fascinating novel about men, women and relationships that addresses differences between what many men say they want in a potential mate, and what they actually seek in the real world. What makes the book intriguing is the conflict that takes place in the narrator's mind. He must choose between the woman he knows deep down in his heart is the right woman for him, and another who is - for all practical purposes - God's gift to men (or so it seems). The narrator is forced to confront issues that men are afraid to talk about, even amongst each other. Watching him overcome the inner turmoil this causes him makes his emotional journey enlightening and exhilarating to follow.

In the book, the narrator is married to a woman named Genevieve. She is a successful, career-minded woman who is reluctant to open herself to his affections because of extreme pain and suffering she experienced throughout her childhood. He loves her, but feels that her unresponsiveness to his desire for greater intimacy indicates that she doesn't feel the same way about him. Her repeated rejection of his advances leaves him feeling cold and diminished on the inside - leading him to seek out someone new to fill the void.

The woman with whom he cheats on his wife, named Kenya, is difficult to describe. This woman, who he believes is Genevieve's sister, is the embodiment of everything most men love about women. She is, to put it mildly, attractive. She carries and expresses herself in ways that men absolutely love. When she and the narrator are intimate, she knows exactly what to say to him to fulfill his innermost desires. Initially, it appears that there is no force in the world that can even begin to stop Kenya from taking him away from Genevieve.

Telling the narrator exactly what he wants to hear about his prowess as a lover is only the beginning of the extraordinary campaign Kenya wages for his affection. Despite having an invincible level of confidence in her own ability to get the man she wants, Kenya has her own emotional vulnerabilities. She is self-conscious about her past and other aspects of her life. She is tough as nails both inside and out, but shares her feelings with the narrator and appreciates his efforts to support and validate them. She appears to be poised to build the foundation for a lasting relationship that Genevieve will not.

Just when you think Genevieve's marriage is about to end, she begins to open up to her husband. In the meantime, he begins to have suspicions about Kenya's motives. Her ex-boyfriend appears, and the narrator is appalled by how they treat each other. She seems to feed off of conflict within the context of a relationship, and the narrator becomes convinced that, in time, she will give in to selfishness and no longer desire the emotional intimacy he offers. When he confronts her about it at the last possible moment, she admits that she only seduced him to get revenge on Genevieve, who had criticized her lackluster career ambitions in the past.

The book ends when Genevieve reveals the most intimate details about her background and upbringing to her husband. His experience with Kenya makes him appreciate his wife's desire for emotional support that much more. He finally understands that she loved him all along, but had difficulty expressing it in the past because of emotional scars inflicted during her childhood. Once he understands her, he is able to be the man he knew he could be all along.

Every man who reads this book will ask himself the question: if I were in the narrator's shoes, would I have the strength to make the right decision in the end? Kenya is an absolute machine. She knows what a man's innermost desires are and knows exactly how to fulfill them. Looking her in the eye and telling her "no" would be one of the most difficult things, if not the most difficult thing, that many men have ever done before.

The book forces male readers to look themselves in the mirror and ask themselves whether or not the qualities and characteristics they desire in a potential mate are what they actually seek out in the real world. It is relatively easy to ask if a given man has what it takes to emulate Odysseus and to chain himself to the mast when the siren comes calling. But it is much more challenging to ask what a man should do when that "siren" is a real woman with real feelings who may change her mind and decide that she likes the sweetness and tenderness that the man she's devouring has to offer her after all. Kenya came very, very close to doing this. How does a man in such a situation determine who his soulmate is? Can he do so without scarring the woman he rejects for life?

Every man who has stubbornly, relentlessly pursued relationships with women whom he greatly admires (but knows don't intend to reciprocate the sense of emotional togetherness he brings to the relationship) in hopes of changing them should read this book. Dickey has done an outstanding job capturing the inner conflict that plagues many men in their relationships. The narrator's extraordinary journey to determine what he really wants from a woman and why is inspiring to read. Hopefully, men who read the book will find the strength to do the same
