This book has a very nice cover--really, a very cool design. I'm a little more equivocal about its insides. I was excited enough by the advance blurbs I read for this book to purchase it in hardcover a week or so after it was published--an extravagance that would shock those who know me well. But this topic appeals to me, and I like to throw a little support behind this sort of publishing enterprise once in a while.

The book is interesting enough, and Yagoda does a good job of keeping things moving with lots of examples of and chatter about style from practicing writers. My problem is with one of the book's enabling conventions: The idea that Strunk & White's The Elements Of Style presents an outmoded and "soul-deadening" idea of style and that only books such as Yagoda's truly plumb the subject to its core.

I've seen this sort of thing before, most notably in Clear and Simple as The Truth, by Thomas and Turner--a book weirdly bent on defying its own title and premise. The idea is to construct a straw man out of the immensely popular The Elements Of Style and then throw eggs at it. But it's an approach that anyone who knows Strunk & White well will recognize as a canard. 

It's largely a made-up polemic, probably caused by the fact that writers are constantly being prodded to find and exploit "the angle" of the story. Magazines prod this way, so do agents and book publishers. It's not good enough to present a solid proposal for an article or book that simply discusses an interesting subject; there must be an angle, and the more controversial the better. And though it's hardly Watergate, smearing The Elements of Style is what passes for provocative in this crowd. 

Yagoda states that Strunk & White's goal is prose that offers "...no trace of the author--no mannerisms, no voice, no individual style...." And then, in refutation of this fabricated Strunk & White "ideal," he fills his book with examples of writers who write with identifiable styles--ranging from subtle to sledgehammer. The examples are fun--these are really good writers--but he's wrong about The Elements of Style. 

The first four fifths of The Elements of Style are largely about style in the sense of mechanics and word usage. No trouble there--that's not the kind of style we're talking about in the Yagoda book. In section five of The Elements, though--the section titled "An Approach to Style"--E. B. White takes a stab at offering beginning writers some simple, sound advice for clearing their prose of dross and deadwood so that they can begin the project of developing their own voice and personality on the page. 

White's project, then, is to help a writer clear the decks so that the "self" can escape "into the open." Yagoda's mistake (and Harold Bloom's, on page xxi of Yagoda) is in thinking that White wants writers to stop once they've swept their prose free of clutter--to end with complete, bland transparency. But he doesn't; transparency, in White's view, is simply the necessary precondition for achieving one's individual voice as a writer--just as an empty canvas is the necessary precondition for painting a picture. "As he becomes proficient in the use of language," White says, "his style will emerge, because he himself will emerge." Does that sound like a recipe for "no mannerisms, no voice, no individual style"?

I am an editor who has worked with nonfiction writers for sixteen years. I press The Elements of Style on many of them--particularly those having trouble organizing their thoughts or getting their words out in a clear, compelling way--and it usually helps. It is only after mastering the fundamental tools of clear expression (the craft of bringing thought to page relatively intact) that a writer's personality, his "voice" or style, can begin to permeate his prose. 

I have to believe it's been a long time since either Yagoda or Bloom spent an evening grading undergraduate essays (if indeed undergraduates are still required to write essays). The usefulness of The Elements of Style for such writers (if they study the book and apply its lessons) is incontrovertible. 

Yagoda and Bloom, in fact, recognize the validity of White's approach, in spite of their trendy protestations. Bloom, page 159: "I have made the conscious effort to write in a more straightforward and accessible way." (Thank you, Harold.) Yagoda, page 236: "...the clearing of brush to create a walkable path, is never-ending for a writer." (That as near a restatement of White's thesis in "An Approach to Style" as you're likely to find.)

As for whether or not a writer can learn to write with "style" by reading this book, as Alex Beam's blurb on the back cover promises, the answer is no. A book such as this, while providing fun examples of style at work, is really no more or less instructive than the rest of a writer's (preferably wide) reading, from which he will sift and sort (consciously or not) the possibilities of voice, tone, and style in the ongoing effort to develop his own sound on the page
