Kissinger writes with authority but- considering his past-  why woudn't he! I guess because geo- politics is such a dynamic field, foreign policies need constant updates with times. For example, Kissinger's book gives us no idea how to steer American foreign policy vis-a-vis rise of strong modern Russia in international politics, American muddle in Iraq, defiant Iran and dangerous hermit kingdom of North Korea that has invented an entirely new art of nuclear blackmail/ threats in international relations.

 Besides,I do not think Kissinger's advice on leaving violent world conflicts alone is either humanist or Christian or keeping up with the notion of America as the world's most powerful democracy and the land of liberty.

Not doing the right thing is tantamount to doing the wrong thing. Foreign policy of America ought to run according to the democratic and liberal principles America itself was founded upon. Bit of exercise of such a humane approach could have stopped massive human tragedies, horrifying genocides like Rawanda and brutal tyrannies like Uzbekistan. 

American support and goodwill for human freedom in the world can only have positive impact on America's international image and trade. Compare such humane/ noble/ righteous actions to the weird approach of propping up dictators in Latin America, Iraq (Saddam Hussein), Afghanistan (Taliban) that super cool think tanks in the State Department have carried on in the past. What in the name of sweet hell were they thinking ?  Maybe Mr. Kissinger knows better.

Also, dark side of hidden foreign policies and covert criminal operations/ cover-ups without the proper knowledge of citizens is in fact a betrayal. Having said that, Kissinger's overview is infiormative and interesting personal slant/study.

Alternative media sources are very important for informed public opinion. I recommend upcoming book by Craig Murray, 'Murder in Samarkand' that unveils the dark underbelly of foreign offices and their policies that are barely considerate of human freedom or dignity
