The Ultimate Weight Solution: The Seven Keys to Weight Loss Freedom is an excellent book for overweight people who overeat for emotional reasons. It overflows with practical tips and real life examples of strategies which are helping people achieve and maintain weight loss.  Dr. Phil obviously possesses a wealth of wisdom and insight into how emotions, beliefs and relationships contribute to excess weight.  I was especially impressed by the chapter discussing how to obtain emotional support and avoid people who will sabotage your weight loss program.  You can almost hear Dr. Phil asking you questions and helping you "Get Real," while you read this book and answer the questionnaires. Practical observations that you cannot smoke or overeat while you are swimming, seem obvious when they are read, yet the obvious is not obvious to people allowing habits to control them.  Dr. McGraw explores the emotional contribution of unresolved anger and depression on overeating.  His goal setting chapter is very specific to weight loss.

Tragically, approximately a third of females and about ten percent of American males are sexually abused by age eighteen.  Many of them unconsciously overeat and maintain an overweight appearance to reduce their sexual attractiveness in a subconscious attempt to avoid attracting further abuse.  Dr. Phil tells the story of a woman he helped, who was molested by an uncle.  After she received healing for the molestation, she was able to stop self sabotaging her weight loss efforts.  Even perpetually lean people could learn to be less judgemental of overweight ones, when they comprehend how many overweight people are suffering from abuse they never deserved. These innocent abuse victims already suffered too much from the abuse, without being judged as weak, lazy, undisciplined, unmotivated or stupid, because they are overweight.

As we all are aware, many overweight people have metabolic or hormonal variations which make it especially difficult for them to achieve or maintain weight loss.  Dr. Phil devotes a chapter to metabolic and hormonal impairment contributions interfering with weight loss, but impaired metabolism may contribute to as much as 50 percent of excess weight.  His Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) reference range was correct in 2003, when his book was published, but has been narrowed by the American College of Clinical Endocrinologists. A TSH of 3.0 or above, is now considered hypothyroid, while a TSH of 5.0 or above was considered excessive, prior to 2003.  In addition, the thyroid hormone reference ranges are based on an arbitrary statistical range of two standard deviations, above and below the mean thyroid hormone levels.  Arbitrarily designating hypothyroidism occurring only in the two lowest percent of the population, causes five of six hypothyroid patients to be misdiagnosed, since 12 percent of the population is hypothyroid and the "normal" reference range only detects the lowest 2 percent.

Undetected fungal and bacterial neurotoxicity also contribute to considerable weight gain, by increasing Leptin and Insulin Resistence and impairing brain blood flow. One of our patients with neurotoxins has now lost 30 pounds,with hormonal balancing, electro auriculotherapy and cholestyramine treatment. She reports increased memory and energy, with decreased pain.  

If metabolic variations appear responsible for excess weight, Lose the Weight You Hate, The Thyroid Solution and The Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine will provide more of the information needed.  Many Florida Detox patients have safely lost 6 to 8 pounds/ per month, when they were correctly diagnosed and treated, for hypothyroidism.

Undiagnosed and untreated testosterone deficiency contributes to far more obesity than most are aware of. 

Malabsorption and insufficient gastric acid production also contribute to obesity, especially with excess use of antacids.  One of our patients reports losing 8 pounds per month, with more energy, less bloating and abdominal pressure, since he started an inexpensive digestive acid supplement.

I do not consider Dr. Phil to be overweight, at 18 percent body fat. He appears to be a strong muscular man.  Readers need to remember muscle weighs more than fat.

Following a highly quotable review, which recommended "Stop running your big fat mouth and start exercising your big fat rear," I am reminded of Lincoln's immortal quote, "the world will little note nor long remember what we say here,"  but hopefully this review will be helpful to some readers.

Steven Sponaugle
Research Director, Florida Detox
