As the story opens a frightened young boy is on the auction block waiting to be sold again.  He is on a planet that is unfamiliar to him, people are speaking a language he does not understand.  He would be homesick but since he has no idea where 'home' is that would be rather pointless.  All he knows is that he is called 'Thorby' and soon he will have another new owner.  He is soon purchased by a crippled begger and taken to his new home, a lain in an abdandoned amphitheatre.  Thorby learns the new family business - begging and comes to realize that his new owner is much more than just a begger.  For one thing he insists that Thorby call him 'Pop' not 'Master', and requires Thorby to learn, learn to read, learn math, learn several languages and most importantly to learn how to learn.  By the time the skinny little boy becomes a tall adolescent he also realizes that Pop has some decidedly nonbegger activities.  Then one day Thorby's life ends and a new one, arranged by Pop, begins.

Thorby's new life is abroad a Trader ship and he discovers that he must begin again to learn the rules of this new society and carve a place for himself within it.  Just as he begins to find his place Thorby finds himself once again in a whole new world and once again must learn the rules from the bottom, this time in the army.  That too does not last very long and Thorby, now a young man finds himself in the strangest and perhaps most dangerous situation in his life, wealthy heir to a vast business empire.

This 1957 novel is one of Heinlein's 'juvenile' stories, but just as RAH did not underestimate his audience this book should not be dismissed as a 'children's story'.  CITIZEN OF THE GALAXY can be read and enjoyed as an adventure story with a happy ending but in typical RAH fashion there is much more to be discovered.  Thorby is forced to define himself and his role in his world several times in his short life.  Each time he understands how things work and what his role is circumstances change and he must begin again.  Those things that he 'knows' are true must be re-evaluated each time, perhaps causing the reader to do the same.

This is definitely one of those books that will stay with the reader for sometime and think about the meaning of freedom, duty, family and just how a society is run to name a few.  That is not to say that this book is without flaws.  While Thorby and some  of the other characters spring to life, others remain just cardboard figures that state their business and then move along.        
