Reading Pamela is like seeing a car accident along the road.  Within ten pages, I hated myself for looking on, but somehow I just couldn't turn away.  Largely, I hated her--Pamela's continual musing about her virtue to her parents, and how all the other servants love her and all that, is why some novels just shouldn't be written in the first person.  But still, it sucks you in, like an addiction, like a tornado, like a vacuum cleaner.  

The basic story is this: Pamela is a servant girl (a very virtuous one, as she will tell you again and again), and her master repeatedly seeks to destroy that virtue, through a variety of devious, occasionally outlandish tricks.  He eventually even goes so far as to kidnap her.  I can't go beyond that without giving away the ending, though I must say any real woman would not have done what Pamela ends up doing at the end, if she were treated the way Pamela gets treated in this book.

As much as Pamela is an icon of cloying, annoying feminity, this is absolutely a must-read book, and it deserves four stars.  Why?  Because, like I said, it sucks you in, which is what any fun read should do.  Also because you simply can't understand the history of the English novel without reading this--the first huge, massive, unbelievably big best seller of English novels.  This book is why ordinary people first began naming their daughters "Pamela"--before this novel, Pamela was an obscure name.  Moreover, you can't appreciate Henry Fielding's Shamela, or Eliza Haywood's Anti-Pamela, without reading this first.  The book was so popular in its day it spawned lots of hilarious satires like these two.  So read Pamela, then purge yourself of all virtue by following it with Shamela and Anti-Pamela.  

One last point:  This particular edition is a very good choice, because it's based on the original edition that Richardson published.  Richardson made later corrections in other editions to attempt to address some of the criticisms people made of his heroine.  But the original is what prompted the big "Pamela craze" and all the satires, so I'd recommend getting a copy modeled on it
