Gurian has done an astoundingly thorough job in addressing the issues many of us face in raising boys today.  I have read other books about raising boys, including other books by Gurian (also good), but this one by far is the most comprehensive, thoughtfully put together book I've ever read.  I think that anyone who is thoughtful about raising sons and committed to doing the best job possible should take a good look at this book and give serious consideration to his ideas.  

Gurian admits in this book that he does not have all the answers and is constantly working to refine his suggestions.  I love what he has done and how he has done it, by actually talking with many families and kids around the world, and using this information, along with neuroscience, and his rich cultural background and education to formulate these suggestions.  

The book is based on the unique testosterone driven neurological needs if males.  It explains this in detail and how to best support a boy's development and channel a boy's natural aggression into a positive and constructive way of life through out the different stages of development.   If you do not believe in the idea of "testosterone driven neurological needs" of boys, then this book may not be for you.  But there have been many studies done that have shown the differences in male and female brains and much experiential evidence that there are differences.  Any teacher and parent I have asked who has both sons and daughters attests to these differences.  Again, if you are a parent of boys and committed to doing the best job you can, this book deserves a sincere look, and these ideas, serious consideration. 

I do see this book as a passionate advocate for boys and maleness, but NOT as male over female promoting.  Near the beginning of the book, it strives to dispell the common impression that girls are the ones in crisis by comparing staticstics about girls to those of boys.   But the intent I got from it is the presentation of a reality check about the state of our boys, and a plea for change because of the crisis we have on our hands of delinquent boys.  But, if I could change one thing about the book, it would be how this plea is presented - fewer comparisons to girls.  I think the statistics for boys are revealing enough on their own. 

Yes, it does point out how mothers, society, and even fathers and other males can and do unwittingly harm boys' development, but I did not take offense to this because I see this book as a very practical, caring, and passionate guide to raising boys.   If read in its entirety, readers would see that Gurian SUPPORTS mothers, holds them in the highest esteem, and sincerely calls for increased respect and support for mothers from family and society.  

Some reviewers have pointed out that he does little to promote the intact family.  He does mention this to be the ideal case in most circumstances.  But he is also saying that in the absence of this ideal situation, or in the absence of extended family being available, here is how to try to mitigate some of the inherent risks associated with those scenarios.  Even if the ideal situation does exist, here are the components that should be present to help you raise your son. 
   
I am a single mom of fraternal twin boys about to turn fourteen.  For us, most of what Mr. Gurian is saying in this book rings very true so far.  My sons have naturally gravitated toward the activities (i.e., constantly challenging themselves, striving to improve skills), a rich family life, (i.e., Gurian's second and third families, the "tribe"), and many male mentors suggested by Gurian. Currently, they are very, very successful despite the fact that I am a struggling single mom.  They have many accomplishments, are well rounded, have great discipline, and have a very bright future ahead of them. This book has helped me navigate some territories unknown to me in raising my sons, and has validated other guiding methods I've used before reading the book.  It has helped me correct some of my mistakes, think through some tough choices, and I will continue to refer to it.  I think it's one of the best books, if not THE best book out there on raising boys!  


