First, I am not a Dungeons and Dragons rule-ologist, so this review will not be as helpful as most of the ones that follow in that regard. I have played D&D since my teens, however, so I do feel qualified to make the statements that follow.

First, the plusses: Gaming has come a long way since the days of AD&D (or 1e D&D as it's referred to now). I feel that--for the most part--the 3rd edition and the d20 system have advanced RPG game mechanics significantly. For those of you who remember the time-consuming references to the aweful "To-hit" tables in the 1e DM's Guide or calculating THAC0 that followed shortly thereafter, the d20 system of rolling a 20-sided die, adding modifiers, and comparing the result to a DC (Difficulty Class) is a refreshing and elegant solution. 

I've heard a lot of complaints that combat is too involved and takes too long to resolve in the 3rd edition. I remember the same problem with AD&D, however. The rules were so convoluted, that stopping to reference the books was constantly necessary. 

Now combat rules are clearer, but there are simply more of them to keep track of. The mechanics for initiative, grappling, attacks of opportunity, tactical movement, subdual damage, the kinds of actions one can take in a round--all are more cohesive and make more sense. The fact that they are more comprehensive makes combat more complicated. In the past, the DM simply had to adjudicate many of these non-existant AD&D rules on-the-fly.

The new DM's guide makes on obtuse reference for streamlining the combat rules for gaming groups that are more interested in ROLE playing than ROLL playing. I wish that the new edition included sidebars for doing just that. Something along the lines of, "if you want to de-emphasize combat with your group, take out attacks of opportunity, this, and that, and you can still have a balanced--but faster--combat system." This is a small criticism, however, as I'm sure someone has already done this on the internet somewhere.

The minusses: This is going to sound very stodgy and nit-pickey. In trying to capture a new audience, the designers of the new books have somewhat de-medievalized D&D. A common criticism of the new edition is that it appeals more to the video gamer than to the traditional RPGer. On one hand, this is a no-brainer. A new game must appeal to a new audience in order to attract new gamers. But, I can't help but feel that something has been lost, however.

Goodman Games, in trying to sentimentalize their Dungeon Crawl Classics product line, brought on some original AD&D artists (most notably Erol Otis) to help design the art for and market their products. Necromancer games has done some of this as well. It would have been nice if WOTC had pioneered this, especially since their intent had been to recapture some of the first edition feel with a new edition of the rules.

Again, this is mostly an aesthetic criticism, and I know that opinions will vary on this, but some of the artwork in the third edition strips the archtypical medieval feel of the game that it once had in favor of a more video game or comic-book asthetic.

Overall, I am happy to own these books
