This book was a pleasant surprise. The underwhelming titles "The Master Sniper" and "War of the Rats" had not ingrained me with high expectations about WW2 fiction. "Black Cross" manages to wrap suspense, characterization, and a fast-paced plot into one neat little package that will have the reader wondering where the hours went.
The writing is excellent. Descriptions are concise and easily visualized, action is both exciting and believable. One star.
The plot is another gem. Learning the Germans have developed nerve agents, the allies are confounded as to how to prevent them from being employed. A raid on the concentration camp where the gas is being developed is the answer. Without giving away too much, the covert action is engrossing and thrilling, and there is a true sense of urgency (and a few, but not too many, twists). Ons star.
There are two protagonists, an American pacifist physician and a Jewish Zionist fighter (Stern gang? I don't recall.) Naturally, the personality conflict is substantial. Both are well-developed and sympathetic, and have good, well-explained reasons for their personal beliefs and biases (I, for one, can't stand it when a character acts uncharacteristically just to advance the plot. There is none of that here.) It is truly a character-driven story. One star.
The supporting cast is similarly well-done. Churchill acts in true-to-life fashion. A nurse at the gas-research camp struggles internally with her service of an evil regime. A Jewish mother in the camp does whatever it takes to save her children. The camp's security chief, honorable despite his service in the Waffen SS, loathes his current assignment and the men he commands. An NCO of the camp guards displays the sadism typical of that position. And the commandant of the camp, a physician conducting vile research, is a very suitable villian. All characters have convincing motivation and personalities, and there are no stereotypes. One star.
The ending is suitably climactic, exciting, and provides good resolution. There is no silly deus-ex-machina that comes to save the day (rahter, the characters find their own solutions.) One star.
Other notes: The details of this book are truly great. The author did his research concerning topics as diverse as organic chemistry and firearms. There is little, if any, eye-rolling. The heroes are not supermen (though they do have the hero's luck and are somewhat exceptional.)
Conclusion: Fans of action, suspense, or military literature will probably enjoy this book thoroughly. If the author likes WW2 stories, then that is just more icing on the cake. Buy it
