Reviewed by Stephanie Rollins for Reader Views (2/07)
   
Steve Chandler has written many motivational books, such as "35 Ways to Create Great Relationships" and "100 Ways to Motivate Yourself."  "The Joy of Selling" is another great book by Chandler.  In "The Joy of Selling," Chandler has 51 shorts chapters that include practical, easy tips for maximizing the reader's potential in sales.

There are 132 pages in "The Joy of Selling."  It is easy to read.  The font is large.  It is divided into small chapters.  These small chapters remind me of the format used for desk calendars.  It is efficiently and effectively written.

One of my favorite points is that contrary to popular belief, daydreaming is a waste of time.  In response to a question about the importance of women daydreaming about their goals, he replies "I think daydreaming is infantile, and I think it is demeaning to women how many motivational speakers try to manipulate women's natural creativity by encouraging dreaming and daydreaming and wishing and hoping."  He explains his point, "Stop fooling around with daydreams and wishes and spinning around the bedpost singing his name like a bad Julie Andrews movie...this is an insulting recommendation to women who would like to really achieve something."

He speaks often of turning our weaknesses into a positive part of our sales persona.  Do not hide the fact that you are a normal human with normal human demands and stresses.  He explains how he advised a former waitress to use her experience as a waitress to improve her sales potential.  She did not want to be the typical pushy salesperson, and she felt like less of a salesperson for that feeling.  He explained that she did "sell" when she was a waitress.  She let them try to make their decisions.  She occasionally gave recommendations.  He explains, "When you find your talent for selling, it will become a Socratic drawing out of the talent that is already there..."

So if you are a mother and a salesperson, why hide that like it is a dirty secret?  Chances are that the person you are trying to sell to is a parent.  If you are way more casual than most salespeople, why feel guilty about it?  Maybe you will put your clients at ease with your lack of pretentiousness.  Do I sound like I can relate to this?  I can.  I turned being a casual mother of four into a great asset, and I now have a large client base of casual, family-oriented people.

Steve Chandler's "The Joy of Selling" is a book of great tips.  Read it a little at a time.  Reading a chapter a day is great.  Then you can dwell on the points in that chapter throughout the day.  Decide how you can use them.  This well-written book can be quite an asset in your career in sales
