Mr Spong was in Sweden in the beginning of September and I went listening to him. He was invited by my church, Evangelical Lutheran, with 90 percent membership in Sweden. He was just as I pictured him, a hilarious gentleman, with a discrete cross, denouncing every theistic principle of Christian tradition. Before starting his discourse, a person stood up and yelled in the church!: "He is the living child of Satan" and then walked out. Well, Mr Spong said: "Normally they do it, at the end".

That is how one becomes a surviver, in laughing at the challenge. It is what Spong does in his book. He shows how difficult it is to go behind Christian literalist veil, that has covered its adherents since 2000 years. This veil is like the pink clothes for girls and blue for boys, creating differences between the sexes.

Not every one is ready to cast off the veil of Christian dogma: trinity, godhood, sonhood, spirithood, virginity and the typical stories that makes us  Christian emotional: the death of Jesus, the denial of Peter and that poor old lady who just touches Jesus' clothes.

For Spong, the veil must be thrown out, we must accept the fantasy contents of Christian dogma and open our eyes for the understanding prevailing today, in 21st century. Mr Spong is right, I agree with him, I too have found another Christianity (the liberal) behind the wonderful stories of Jesus in 1st century, but I have also had my spirituality when I was a traditionalist. I hadn't any difficulty accepting female priests or gay marriage even then. So I am not as radical as Spong is, because traditionalists can be pro-gay and pro-women, the content of a living son of god is not the problem but the bigotry of the believers and their insistence in thinking that 1st century science and thought about women, Africans and gays is superior to 21st century. There are still Flat Earth believers!

Thus, the book will be challenging for all traditionalists. For me, having taken the bitter medicine since six years back, I found the book as a proof that I am not alone, there is another Christian like me. If you are such a Christian, I recommend this book to you, `cause we need this confirmation and Christianity needs to open up the corridors for us Liberals, so that we can be included in the evolution of our religion, and not watching its own implosion.
