Sometimes a work of history is so thoroughly researched, so rich in detail, so comprehensive and so lucidly presented as to be considered art.
 Such is Joseph Perisco's, &quot;Roosevelt's Secret War.&quot; For anyone interested in FDR, World War II or wartime espionage this book is a must.
 Perisco is an unabashed fan of FDR. Some readers will doubtless take issue with the author's interpretations of a few of the more controversial aspects of the war as handled by FDR. But while generally lauding Roosevelt, Perisco always gives voice to the president's critics. Perisco is most forceful in his refuting the claims that FDR had foreknowledge of the Pearl Harbor attacks successfully attacking both the reasoning and assertions of revisionists.
 One tends to be persuaded by Perisco simply because he brings so much information to his arguments.
 The author also fleshes out all manner of other significant supporting players. The scandalized Sumner Welles, pal Vincent Astor, ally Winston Churchill, FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, controversial OSS director Bill Donovan to name but a few.
 One of Perisco's greatest achievements is to present all the incidents, events and characters (replete with anecdotes) in all their complexity in such an entertaining read. Indeed therein may lay the secret: all the complexity, the maneuvering, the machinations are spiced by the entertaining characters who carried them out, whether dashing or bumbling whether through ingenuity or sheer luck.
 Most of all this is the story of an extraordinary man who found himself president of a country during its worse economic/social crisis and the world's biggest war. Perisco reveals everything from how &quot;that man&quot; (as he was sometimes called) handled foreign heads of states to what he liked for breakfast.
 FDR was intrigued by espionage and the attendant spies and secrets but his uses and interests in this area quickly changed from a hobby played at with Astor, to an operational necessity worked at with Donovan. 
 This book gives much for historians and the casual reader to contemplate and debate. This includes such issues as what FDR knew and could have done about the Holocaust; the Japanese internment; FDR-Stalin relations and dealings and how they might have contributed to the Cold War.
 But there can be no debate about this: &quot;Roosevelt's Secret War&quot; will enhance any readers knowledge of FDR and broaden their understanding of the United States in World War II. Also unarguable is that this is a fascinating, entertaining read.

