I disagree with William James but I highly respect his mind.  So I reach a compromise with a 4 star rating.  

Who is William James?  He is brother to Henry James, the novelist.  Why did he write what he wrote?  Why did he, in other words, focus on psychology and religious experience?  A clue can be found in Varieties of Relig. Exp. page 160-161, that has been ignored by so-called scholars:   

"I went one evening into a dressing-room in the twilight to procure some article that was there, when suddenly there fell upon me without any warning, just as if it came out of the darkness, a horrible fear or my own existence.  Simultaneously there arose in my mind the image of an epileptic patient whom I had seen in the asylum, a black-haired youth with greenish skin, entirely idiotic, who used to sit all day on one of the benches, or rather shelves against the wall, with his knees drawn up against his chin, and the coarse gray undershirt, which was his only garment, drawn over them inclosing (sic) his entire figure.  He sat there like a sort of sculptured Egyptian cat or Peruvian mummy, moving nothing but his black eyes and looking absolutely non-human.  This image and my fear entered into a species of  combination with each other.  That shape am I, I felt potentially.  Nothing that I possess can defend me against that fate, if the hour for it should strike for me as it struck for him.  There was such a horror of him, and such a perception of my own merely momentary discrepancy from him, that it was as if something hitherto solid within my breast gave way entirely, and I became a mass of quivering fear.  After this the universe was changed for me altogether.  I awoke morning after morning with a horrible dread at the pit of my stomach, and with a sense of the insecurity of life that I never knew before, and that I have never felt since.  It was like a revelation; and although the immediate feelings passed away, the experience has made me sympathetic with the morbid feelings of others ever since.  It gradually faded, but for months I was unable to go out into the dark alone.  In general I dreaded to be left alone.  I remember wondering how other people could live, how I myself had ever lived, so unconscious of that pit of insecurity beneath the surface of life. . . .I have always thought that this experience of melancholia of mine had a religious bearing."  

Similar to John Bunyan, James has had, to quote Woody Allen, "a moving religious experience."  To deal with this experience, James eventually dabbled in occult studies to account for its significance.  The result was that James came to embrace a gnosticism.  The core of gnosticism, whether framed in classical terms or in terms of existentialism, is to wipe out the subject/object relationship.  In order to do this, the elimination of consciousness as a really distinct reality becomes pertinent.  We see this in James when he writes an essay entitled "Does 'Consciousness' Exist?"  This essay can be found in a volume of James's work entitled "Essays in Radical Empiricism."  

James's experience, as narrated by himself, resembles Sartre's character Roquentin, in Sartre's "Nausea."  It also relates to the experience of Edward John Carnell.  

Why these idiots at Ivey League colleges ignore James the man while trying to understand James the thinker, puzzles me.  I suppose they are too gungho in gathering a brilliant mind in support of their narrow, warped leftist agendas that they fail to do a good job in completing accurate research into James's thought.

