I hadn't read the other book in the Alice Kimberly series, but, after reading this one, I am definitely sold on the idea of buying some of the others. 

In The Ghost and the Dead Man's Library, the bookstore owner, Penelope McClure, has to tango with a series of mysterious murders after her aunt is given a rare collection of Edgar Allan Poe's works. It seems that those who buy the books, or volumes, end up dead. 

One of the refreshing aspects of Kimberly's style is her ability to create many facets in one work--there are mystery, noir, dark comedy, intrigue and supernatural elements all intertwined. She also uses a very ingenious and unique way of going about solving a mystery, which the use of a ghost who is inside the head of the protagonist, Mrs. McClure. Not only that but there are plenty of jabs at the Da Vinci Code (always a good thing), as one of the characters insists there is a code within the volumes of Poe's works that is an intricate part of solving the mystery. 

Perhaps the most interesting and unique character is the one that isn't even alive. That's right, Private Investigator Jack Shepard, who was murdered many years past, seems to show up right when things begin to get interesting in this book. He definitely adds spice to this novel, and gives a little comic relief to the story's plot, coming up with witty one liners all the way. He is right there with Pen McClure in every step of the mystery, and he has the feel and sounds as if he were right out of an episode of Dragnet. The dialogue between him and Pen make for some of the funnier and unique moments of the book. 

In another respect, this book is just a fun "who done it" with mystery and adventure involved. You follow each lead and clue and are right there with the characters trying to solve, and figure out motives for each of the murders. 

All in all, this is a quick, fun, easy read, and is great for a rainy day, or any time for that matter. Mystery and suspense, and all this drama in a book store owner's life: who would have thought it possible?
