I had the unusual pleasure of hearing him speak at a public function when this book first came out.  In fact, that's how I got my free copy.  The story of this man's life is simply amazing.  That came through in his honest and heart-felt reflection of the hardships he's had to overcome growing up.  I've lived in San Francisco most of my life, attending public school with the normal cross section of the city's diverse ethnic crowd.  I can say with a degree of certainty that I'm culturally aware of the African American experience.  So it is with a bit of sadness that I regret not having met more people with Williams' ambition and determination when I was younger.  To be fair, the circumstances in which his life unfolded would probably be hard to duplicate in this day and age, especially in San Francisco.  But regardless, I truly believe young blacks of today, regardless of where they may live can draw inspiration from his story.  We all still face a huge amount of inequality and injustice in our society today.  With such polarization along political and religious lines in our national conscience as I'm writing this, it is critical to remember that race still matters. The other day, the biology department chair at my school presented a slide show of New Orleans where here Alma Mater was severely damaged by Katrina a year ago.  She's a parasitologist with a Ph.D from Tulane University.  The contrast between the French quarter/downtown and the poorer residential areas are striking.  Those who've read Williams book would immediately draw parallels with the stark geographic division along racial lines of Muncie, Indiana - where Williams grew up.  How many other cities in America are New Orleans waiting to happen?  If something unthinkable should happen in Muncie today, how will the citizens of that city fare today?  Will the impoverished blacks of Hunter's point/Bayview in my own city suffer the same fate as those of the lower 9th ward when the "Big One" strikes California?  If more of my fellow black San Franciscans can aspire to be like Williams and strive to lift themselves and their community out of poverty and strife, we just might have a chance at doing better.  One can hope
