Fifty-one year old Alice Brill awakens one morning knowing something is very much wrong. She feels it deep in her breastbone where she has always received terrible news. She knows that what is amiss is a personal problem, not a worldwide issue. However, she has no idea what exactly the mysterious foreboding is about.

Naturally, Alice's life isn't perfect. She lost her job as an editor in a publishing house but has mostly recovered from the sorrow of that blow. She now finds satisfaction in her work as an independent book doctor. Her father has slid into senility and currently resides in a nursing home; her mother is long dead. Alice and her husband Ev are arguing frequently, with many disagreements centered on their underachieving, misdirected son Scott. Could her sudden unhappiness be simply disappointment in her own life? After all, she had once taken satisfaction in writing fiction, as had Ev. Both of them have let their art go in order to work at jobs to support a family.

Alice is particularly intrigued by a novel manuscript she is editing and becomes more and more fascinated by the author, a young man in Michigan far from Alice in New York. She finds herself looking forward to his emails and phone calls. Can this untoward attraction be the mysterious trouble of which she remains constantly aware?

Alice also wonders if an unresolved puzzle from the past could contribute to her unease. While delving through the paperwork of her mother, a published poet, she stumbles across a mystery. Hidden away, she finds intriguing letters and a poem new to Alice. Could her mother have had a secret life? As she reads the poem, she discovers something alarming in her own body. And all the while, she is constantly conscious of that strange sensation of impending doom: something is wrong or will soon go wrong.

As time goes by, Alice begins to wonder if she has made up her own life in a manner similar to times in the past when she wrote fiction. What is the truth about her existence, and what has she only taken as reality? If her past as she remembers it isn't factual, how will she delve into it, since her main link to the long-ago is her now senile father?

That urgent feeling of impending trouble eventually comes to be realized in many facets of her life. As her father once would have said, now she has something to cry about.

Alice continues to be haunted by the locked door in her past --- an actual physical locked door and a symbolic one. In order to understand herself and her place in her world, she must find the key, and yet it eludes her. In the meantime, her complicated, messy present life surges around her. In her father's rare moments of lucidity, he seems to offer her brief tantalizing clues. Or does he? It's impossible to tell given his state of mind, and Alice's own.

THE DOCTOR'S DAUGHTER is an elegant meditation on the balance between art and love. It is also an intriguing mystery complete with subtle twists in the plot. The novel's people are completely real; Alice is such a sympathetic character that the reader identifies with her and can't stop reading in order to find out what happens in her life. This is an engrossing, beautifully written story, and I recommend it highly.

   --- Reviewed by Terry Miller Shannon (terryms2001@yahoo.com
