"Miracle At Philadelphia" brings the reader into one of the most crucial, sweltering summers of American history, during which the Constitutional Convention, called to propose amendments to the Articles of Confederation, exceeded its mandate and wrote the Constitution.  The practice of maintaining secrecy of the proceedings reflects the delegates' fear of the public response had the radical nature of their actions been known and would later provide a sword to opponents of the Constitution during the ratification process.

Author Catherine Drinker Bowen does an excellent job of portraying the personae dramatae, framing the issues and reporting on the compromises which led to the end product.  

The cast of characters includes some of the most spectacular names in the early American pantheon, some in surprising roles, and others, lesser known, but very important in this convention.  George Washington, as president of the convention, presides in silence, but his very presence shaped the document created before him.  James Madison and Alexander Hamilton guided the process through to the conclusion which they promoted.  Benjamin Franklin guided with his sage hand, while James Wilson of Pennsylvania and  Luther Martin of Maryland provided leadership to opposing sides.  As hard as it is to imagine, this was done without the presence of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, both serving on diplomatic missions in Europe.

Many of the chapters are organized by issue.  How we ended up with a bicameral legislature representing states and population, a single executive, the District of Columbia and other things are laid out before the reader.  The debates over slavery, a standing army and other issues which, if adopted, might have changed our history radically, make for interesting historical reading.  The ratification process is followed through the states.  I was surprised to find James Monroe among the Anti-Federalists.   

"Miracle at Philadelphia" relies on the notes maintained by delegates and seems to stick to known facts, eschewing speculation, fictional dramatization, and analysis of external influences in telling its story.  It is not a riveting, novel like work, but is interesting and informative.  I read it in the hopes of gaining an understanding of how the miracle of our Constitution came about.  I am satisfied and trust that you will be too.
