If you like books about the mother-daughter conflict, this is what you may be looking for. Amy Tan wrote an incredibly captivating story of Ruth, a American-born Chinese ghostwriter of (ironically) self-help books, who is a perfectionist to the degree that she feels restrained, has mute spells once every year and has a deep aversion against her mother. The old lady, Lu Ling, starts showing signs of dementia and Ruth gets worried. Ruth worries a lot generally, but mostly about herself, her life, her image (even self-image), analyzing every detail, constantly referring to her being Chinese in the US and thinking that this is the source of all her problems. With her mother sick, Ruth remembers the manuscript given to her by LuLing some time ago and her mother urging her to read it. Unfortunately, Ruth, opposing her mother's background and lifestyle, has never mastered Mandarin to the degree allowing her to read Chinese characters without difficulty, so she needs the help of the translator. When he reveals her mother's autobiography to Ruth, she learns the most astonishing truths and the facts about her mother allow her to understand her mother and come to terms with herself. The secrets Ruth may have learned earlier, if only she listened to her mother, are laid now in plain view in front of her. This could be creating more problems for a person of Ruth's personality, but, strangely enough, this shock is what she needs to accept herself and let go of the phobias and obsessions, which have been haunting her all her life.
The book is divided into two parts, first one being more of an introduction to Ruth's character, and the second one (longer) - LuLing's manuscript. They complete each other very well, the story is superb, the book is well rounded up and reads fluidly. The only "but" I might have that some themes are treated a bit superficially, but I guess this is difficult to avoid in a book touching the subject so serious as a generation conflict in the immigrant family
