Okay, I only gave this 4 stars because there were parts of it where I'd have much appreciated even more information and explanation.

That said, I will admit that some of those parts dealt with processes that are hard to explain adequately in a book. But I still sat there at times thinking, "what? how, precisely, do I do that?" For example, in the section on dealing with problems that crop up during meditation, the author advises the reader to deal with physical pain by relaxing tensed muscles one by one, doing so very thoroughly. Now, that may sound simple to you. Perhaps I'm a dolt. I dunno. But I haven't a clue how to relax each muscle one at a time. I'm constantly amazed to find I have muscles where previously I thought I had none. ;-) I'm supposed to accomplish this muscle relaxation strictly through thought processes? Okay, I believe that's possible, but what do I do? Ack. Right after that, the author advises the reader to continue by going after the mental resistance next.

Now, to be fair, the author admits there are no human words to precisely explain this process. And I feel in my gut that he's right, but I'm disgustingly literal and really require precision in explanation in order to think I can get my head around something new and challenging.

Have I turned you off? If so, let me now say that I LOVE this book. I've never read anything that so clearly was written to help someone understand how to meditate for insight. The writer takes great care to explain the process as much as he is able to. The stuff that he doesn't explain--well, it's just not enough of a factor to make me dislike this book.

After reading this book, you'll find yourself much more prepared to begin insight meditation, to begin walking a path of mindfulness, and hopefully, ultimately a peaceful and compassionate path. The goal of this book is not to teach you how to chant and simply relax (although relaxation is a wonderful side effect). Rather, the goal of this book is to change your life, to help you become more mindful, to see life as you really have it before you, to truly understand so that you can become fully present in that life. The author makes clear that this is a long process, one that will require dedication and courage from the meditator, and I truly respect how clearly he has communicated what will be expected of me.

I plan to give copies of this book to people I love
