This is a great find and if you have been lead to this book consider yourself a very blessed and fortunate individual. Healing our lives is such an "iffy" proposistion. So many times we derive so many "benefits" from not healing our lives; we can play the victim, we can blame others, we can receive sympathy from others, we can stay limited and small. If you don't want to heal your life right now, that's okay, I don't blame you because it's kind of scary taking complete response-ability for your life, but if you are ready...really, really ready, then this is a book for you.

I recommend reading it with a friend or if you can't do that, read it in front of the mirror. I can guarantee that if you do that, the tears will come. Don't be afraid of getting upset or angry or even disturbed because Truth is upsetting because Truth is unsettling but I warn you, once you've been exposed to a few empowering ideas, you can never go back. You can try, but you'll have this nagging feeling that somehow your life is your creation and you have always been responsible for it. Yeah, your daddy might've been abusive and your mommy might've been alcoholic, but are you going to RISE UP or are you going to sit in the ashes of the past and play dead?

The point of power is always in the present moment so I suggest that you go and reclaim your life. I suggest that you cry, scream, throw things until you get it all out of system and out of complete and total surrender come back to the Life that was always waiting for you to notice it; your life and you are a beautiful, wonderful, magnificent creation that has so much to give.

You can heal your life. You can let the dead bury the dead. You can discover/uncover the Truth that your wholeness is yourt holiness and your holiness is your wholeness. 

My only problem with this book is the section in the back where Louise mentions certain physical ailments and the mental attitudes that MIGHT have created the situation. This information can be a blessing or a curse. It can be a blessing because it can give you something to work through and heal or it can be a curse because you can use this information to beat yourself up with or make yourself feel guilty that somehow you created this situation and I don't think that it was Louise's intention for any of us to take this powerful information and find new ways to beat ourselves up. This is the only reason I'm giving the book four stars and not five not because the information is wrong or misleading, but because I've met quite a few people who run around "diagnosing" everyone. Use this information and do not abuse it.

Peace & Blessing
