The Will of the Empress (2005) is the ninth volume in the Circle series.  These novels relate the stories of four young ambient mages:  Sandrilene fa Toren, Daja Kisubo, Trisana Chandler and Briar Moss.  In the Circle of Magic quartet, these youngsters were rescued from distressing situations by the great mage Niklaren Goldeye, who recognized their talents and arranged for them to be trained at Winding Circle.  Living together in Discipline Cottage, they learned to control and apply their inherent magics and developed very close relationships.  These mages were granted their Medallions at the most unusual age of thirteen.

In the Circle Opens quartet,  three mages -- Briar, Daja and Tris -- accompanied their mentors on separate wanderings while Sandry remained behind at the Citadel to help her uncle the Duke.  All of them encountered both good and bad circumstances, but they also improved their magical abilities and social skills.  After several delays, the three travelers returned to Summersea.

In this novel, Sandry impatiently awaits the return of the wandering mages.  They have been out of range of her mental communications for some time and are very much overdue.  The Duke is also awaiting their return.

As the wandering mages gradually come back to Summersea, they gather at Number 6 Cheeseman Street, where Daja has rented a house with attached forge.  After all have returned, the Duke visits to ask that one or more of them accompany Sandry to Namorn to visit her estates.  She has been under increasing pressure by the Empress of Namorn to visit there, but she should not take too many guardsmen with her lest the Empress be angered by the apparent lack of trust.  However, her fellow mages could provide sufficient protection.

All volunteer to go with her and they travel with a Trader caravan to Dancruan, the capital of Namorn.  Despite her lack of entourage, Sandry soon settles into the formalities of the court.  But the Empress completely ignores Sandry's desire to return to Emelan at the end of the summer.  Sandry gradually becomes aware that the Empress wants all three of them to remain in service to Namorn.  The Empress has a strong will, but she badly underestimates these four mages.

In this novel, the three wanderers fail to resume mental communications with Sandry or each other.  They all have reasons to keep their thoughts private, but this mental silence precludes the merging of their talents.  The Empress is aware of their mental solitude and counts on it to further her plans for acquiring their services.

Briar has bad dreams of the war in Gyongxe and doesn't want to spread the horrible images (and smells) to his mates;  he also resists the idea of consulting mind healers.  Daja has bad images of her own that she doesn't want to share with her siblings.  Tris just doesn't want them to know that she can see visions on the wind.  Even Sandry has had some bad experiences.  Each is afraid of rejection by the others, though such withheld images and thoughts are only significant to their fellows for the hurt they cause the possessor.

While these young mages retain their basic personalities, they also display some positive growth in self-esteem and social behavior.  Even Tris shows some consideration of others.  But only Briar has developed any skill at intersexual relations.

Although actions taken against these young mages are foreshadowed, the details of their reactions are often surprising and usually overwhelms the Empress.  Even Ishabal Ladyhammer, the archmage, tries to tell the Empress that they may have overreached themselves.  Yet hubris makes the Empress continue to work against Sandry and her magical siblings.

Highly recommended to Pierce fans and to anyone else who enjoys tales of court intrigues and magical talents.

-Arthur W. Jordi
