I've always considered the novel Friday as the start of Heinlein's `modern' science fiction works.  He wrote his novels I Will Fear No Evil (1970) and Time Enough For Love (1973) in the 70's and The Number of the Beast (1980) followed up with characters from his previous works.  Friday (1982) started out with new and fresh characters and shucked off most of the 60's and 70's feel of the other previous novels (such as the lovey-dovey talk between bedmates, the oft-used term `dear' (though still used), etc).  Although there is still some aspects of it in Friday such four lovers together in one bed.  By the 80's, swinging had pretty much ceased to be a social phenomenon.

For anyone that's a red-blooded male, you couldn't help but notice the book cover if you passed it in a book store.  On it is a pneumatic woman in a tight jump suit zippered down low.  With that though was also a problem, as the term `don't judge a book by it's cover' comes to mind and one then thinks of it as just a pulp novel and not of any good.  So come to my surprise where in this day and age where faery handbags and militant lesbianism passes as award winning SF and I look back to past science fiction works to find that Friday was one of six finalists for the 1982 Nebula Awards and one of five finalists for the 1983 Hugo Awards. It's a brilliant cover telling of the novel, the woman has her sleeves rolled up showing that she's independent and tough, and in the background is a futuristic window on what appears to be a space station or space shuttle overlooking a planet.  In one brief glimpse one's able to tell that this is a science fiction story.   Fortunately the publishers knew this book cover is a classic and have not removed it which they've unfortunately done to other classics, Frederik Pohl's Gateway being one.

It wouldn't be sufficient to say that this novel is about the adventures of Friday because although it is, it uses her actions partly as means to tell of events in the story.  North America is broken up into a series of autonomous regions and a series of assassinations and riots occur within these regions and the inner systems and asteroids.  Sort of a Tet Offensive for the Solar System.  After these events tone down for a while, she's able to meet back up with "Boss", in scenes reminiscent of Charlie's Angels.  Talking about television programs, there are strong similarities between Friday and Cameron's former program, Dark Angel.  There's a genetically modified and enhanced female courier, young and sexy, set within the future where the United States has disintegrated into several countries.  

Although Heinlein does use the discrimination against genetically modified persons, or artificial persons (AP) as mentioned in the book, as an allegory on racism, racism is a bit more complex.  It's difficult to consider a male refusing a curvy, sweet, willing woman like Friday whether she's an AP, black, brown, yellow, red, Andorian blue, or Rigelian green.  And for other women to be prejudiced against Friday, it's less likely to be due to her color than to her curviness.  There's not as much sex in the novel as may have been mentioned, certainly less when compared to other Heinlein novels, I Will Fear No Evil topping the list.  Any mature adult should be able to handle the scenes within the novel.  Heinlein does rip into religion so some puritans may be offended.  As with other Heinlein novels, there are sections that drag on, and if you find yourself re-reading the same section, just plow forward, keep reading, and it'll get better.  There are some `hard-core' science fiction sections such as describing that the distances between stars may be further apart than they appear looking up into the night sky on earth.  You either already know this from astronomy or you don't really need to know it to read the novel.  Categorize this novel under `fun'!

Friday, 1982, 357 pages: 3-1/2 star
