"Hair is a big part of how we define ourselves and other people make assumptions about us based on our hair."  "I set my hair money aside like it's a bill."  "She's dark, but at least she has all that hair."  "Hair is fun, hair is temporary, I think it's meant to be played with."  These are some of the quotes taken from QUEENS: Portraits of Black Women and Their Fabulous Hair by Michael Cunningham and George Alexander. Cunningham, the photographer and Alexander, the journalist, have put together photo essays highlighting African-American women throughout the world and the role hair plays in their lives.   

Through the interviews we find some women attempting to make political statements while for others, no statements are necessary. Also, family traditions play a large part in how we deal with our hair.  Like a rite of passage, certain ages are staples in families dictating when you can get a perm and when you can get a cut.  One woman stated that her father was a Black Nationalist, and therefore perms were a no-no in her household.  Some prefer to go natural, using no chemicals and for others, perms are the way to go.  There are also the salon dramas, thus becoming a reason to avoid them.  At the same time, there is a psychological benefit afforded within salons while relaxing and regrouping from the stresses of life.  Regardless of the preference, convenience appears to be the overriding factor with hairstyles depending upon your lifestyle and cost is no object to achieve certain results.  

Whether it is in America, London or Ghana, Cunningham and Alexander have delivered a comprehensively written and visual look into the African culture and the relationship between mind, body and hair.  If we take a look at our own lives and history within our families, we will certainly come across a story that speaks to our hearts.  QUEENS can serve as excellent conversational piece among women while pulling in the male species for their take.  "The salon is a place where women can come in and sit down and be heard and finally express how they are feeling."  Hats off to the author and the photographer for a job well done.

Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves
of The RAWSISTAZ™ Reviewer
