With this newest publication, America's leading archaeologist of Israelite history, Bill Dever, continues his provocative series of archaeological books geared for the lay reader which creates a firm bases for the "syncretistic" background of the peoples of Ancient Israel first known as the Hebrews.  Although Dever's earlier publications, dealing with the technical data of archaeology, were scattered in professional journals and Festschrifts, he began writing for the general reader in 1989 with the publication of "Recent Archaeological Discoveries and Biblical Research" This book showed that Pre-Monarchial Israel's claims for much of its history (such as the Exodus from Egypt) had no archaeological foundations and most other Patriarchal claims, recorded in the Old Testament were, anachronistic.

Dever's latest book "Did God Have a Wife?  Archaeology and Folk Religion in Ancient Israel" a disturbing and attention grabbing question for the general Judaic or Christian reader.  Dever claims he is not extreme in dealing with the question of house hold religion in Israel and, as such, he is on constant guard to avoid what he considers an unfounded revisionist view of Israelite history:  The Minimalist School (The scholarly claim that most all early Israelite history is "historized myth" created in the Exilic and Post Exilic periods).  If one considers the many conservatives who will be reading this book, one can see where Dever himself will be view as a "minimalist" or a reviser of history.  Never the less, he presents the archaeological facts and the reader must then adjust his or her faith based to this newest data.

I have always enjoyed personal testimonies by scholars who have made a move in their religious life and this Dever does in the "Introduction".  I loved the casual and open dialogue he has with the reader when he states he went from the son of  "...a fire-breathing fundamentalist preacher, sometimes tent evangelist..." (Page X) to his explanation of where he is today:  "Like many Jews, I am essentially a secular humanist..." (Page XI).

I was very impressed with the discussion of Israel's general background which Dever sets in its ancient Near Eastern context and in dialogue with other scholars of the past and those currently working in the field today.  If chooses to skip the detailed archaeological information dealt with in the book, the reader has that option.  However, chapters one through three are a must read filled with facts which exposes the reader to modern scholarship.  The final three chapters lay out Dever's future state of Biblical studies if archaeology is to be taken seriously, particularly the major roll of women in the ancient household religious cult and the restrictive place women have in most denominations today.

Unlike most professors (who must write books based, not on the facts but rather on their sects religious doctrines) Dever, who is now retired, is free to lay out the data and he is not afraid to step on toes.  His thesis is that Israel's God, Yahweh, had a female consort (probably the Goddess Asherah) just like the neighboring national gods who herself had female companion or as some would call it:  wives.

As much as I enjoyed this book, it did have a few general drawbacks.  Dever quotes many scholarly titles throughout the book and I personally would have love to have seen more discussion in footnotes or endnotes, but I also understand the general reader (to which this book is addressed) would not be as interested.  The book's final section "Some Basic Sources" has the bibliography grouped under related areas of interest, which makes finding more information on a title very cumbersome.

Secondly, while Dever admits his indebtedness throughout the book to Dutch scholar Karel van der Toorn for the term "Book Religion" (Official / State Religion) over against commoner's "Folk Religion, he fails to note van der Toorn's major work in the same area published in 1996:  Family Religion in Babylonia, Syria and Israel:  Continuity and Change in the Forms of Religious Life.

Also, I would have like to see Dever work in reference with Tilde Binger's revised dissertation about a wife for Yahweh:  Asherah:  Goddesses in Ugarit, Israel and the Old Testament.  However, Dever's strong objections to Minimalist scholarship have him reference this major study only once.

Dever's book is a must read and fresh breeze to a stale and stuffy room of ecclesiastical pseudo scholarship where dogmas of creedal tradition dictates objective facts of history.

