I have long delighted in David Sedaris's pieces in The New Yorker and on "This American Life."  His humor is edgy, but--and granted this will seem contradictory--there is something familiar and down-to-earth to it.  Perhaps this is because it's like the aphorism popularized by Homer Simpson: "It's funny 'cause it's true."  

Sedaris's stories mostly revolve around his family, now and when growing up, as well as his partner, Hugh.  His family's interrelationships often seem disfunctional, but like the Simpson family, the abuse they heap upon one another is just another way of saying "I love you."  It's sometimes painful to watch, even if one is also amused by their interaction.  

Wouldn't anyone be just a little uncomfortable reading how (in "Let It Snow") the Sedaris children, locked out of their house by their mother, decided to sacrifice their youngest sibling by having her lie down in the middle of the road--all for the ultimate purpose of making their mom feel bad?  And yet, Sedaris makes this funny: "Poor Tiffany: She'd do just about anything in return for a little affection....  When we asked her to lie in the middle of the street, her only question was 'Where?'"  (Don't worry, Tiffany lives--to become the stuff of another story.)

Aside from the humor, one reads Sedaris because he's just so literate, so good at story telling.  He has a real gift with capturing a moment, particularly in the dialogue.  His reminiscences of his mother are particularly touching and funny.  I'm reminded of the line in the play/movie "Same Time Next Year" when Doris says that she has fallen in love with Helen, the wife of her lover, George: We hear these wonderful stories about her and fall in love with her. 

Sedaris at times takes a labyrinthine route in tracing a course of events.  "Nuit of the Living Dead" is a good example of this.  You sort of wonder where the story's going (zombies?  rats? burglars starving to death in chimneys? ungrateful children?), but you don't really mind because you're amused all along the way.  Another example is the first story, "Us and Them," which originally appeared in The New Yorker.  It's a hilarious story which, though focused at first on the strangeness of a family that doesn't watch TV but actually talks at the dinner table (Mon Dieu!), turns on one particular encounter with this family: having been away at camp, they show up at the Sedaris door trick-or-treating the day *after* Halloween.  This is one of the laugh-out-loud moments of the book, when Sedaris, ordered by his mom to get some piece of candy from his previous night's stash, sequesters himself in his room to gorge himself on sweets, sitting on his bed with chocolate oozing from his mouth while he develops a headache (because he's allergic to chocolate), all to deny the silly twits from across the street his candy.

Sedaris's stories might not be everyone's cup of tea, but if you enjoy fresh writing, bizarre situations, and a good, warm laugh, Sedaris will not disappoint
