This book covers well known genocides in Rwanda, Germany, Cambodia and Guatemala.  It also delves into 'lesser' 'genocides' in Bosnia and the "U.S Mexico border region".  It is these dichotomies that make the book problematic.  First, the introductions explain different categories of genocide. Then there is a rundown of genocides of 'indegenous' or 'first' peoples.  These are well known or not, depending on ones backround.  The native american genocides in the Americas are covered as is the genocide of the Herero people, and the Armenians.  Also mentioned are assaults on native peoples in South East Asia and India, as well as the Sudan and Australia.  

However some major assaults on people go unnoticed.  For instance the ethnic cleansing of Hindus and Sikhs in Pakistan in 1948, the killing of more than 250,000 Chinese by Indonesia, and of course East Timor.  Genocide is selective, not in its fact, but in how the west perceives it.  Certain conflicts are not called 'genocide' becuase of Political correctness. For instance the mass slaughter of Assyrians in 1920s Iraq is not mentioned.  

This is where the book breaks down.  Wonderful chapters deal with post genoicde and trauma and memory in such places as post war Germany.   However the foolishness that one article labels the American-Mexico border a 'potential' genoice or a place where 'genocide' terms ar eused is pure nonsense.  IF this is true of the border area, then it is true of every nation in the world, and that downplays the seriousness of actual genocides like the Holocaust.  if the Holocaust is 'like' the Mexican-American border region, then 'genocide' means nothing.  

The Bosnian case is also suspect.  Most now confirm that the 'genocide' that took place, involved perhaps 2000 civilians.  ANd of course the war and the 'ethnic cleansing' terms were political aimed only at Serbs, ignoring Croat and Bosnian and Kosovar atrocities.  Genocide is not war, and this is where one writer is very mistaken.  failed Attempts, or thoughts of genocide, are not genocide.  The Sudan is genocide, and due to lack of information not one article details it, which shows the bias of western scholarhsip and the problem with these type of texts.

Seth J. Frantzman






