How can one criticise a delicious chocolate in one's favourite box?  Sheer enjoyment though by no means a perfect novel.  The Bonteen murder thing does not survive re-readings.  Madame Max never comes to life and as such one cannot envision Phineas's married life with her, though one is pleased that he ends the novel wealthy!  The Phineas in this novel is a weaker depiction than the hero of "Phineas Finn" and this is not a  consequence of the author's deliberate attempt to depict a more mature and jaded Phineas - Trollope presumes we should know him.  What works in "Phineas Redux" are the tiny details which provide bulletins of the maturing marriage between Glencora and the Duke, virtually all of the contributing characters, and the world of Victorian politics; in this novel we are not quite so subject to the slavish accounts of parliamentary 'to'ings and 'fro'ings as we were in the first Phineas novel.  And whilst we miss the energy of the wonderful "Eustace Diamonds" sandwiched between the two, we are grateful that Lizzie and her revolting husband reappear to be reviled and admired on cue.  Trollope's depiction of Lizzie shows why he is an incredible novelist, and how, despite himself, he thought wildly outside the Victorian sphere of morality.  He loves her as one would love a creature or specimen held within one's control, pinned to a butterfly board or caged in a zoo.  He loves her animalism.  And then he is dragged back down to Victorian ignorance by the anti-semitism rampant in his depiction of the reverned Emilius.  Unfortunate, but it was of its time and few can escape their time - Dickens certainly could not.  One closes this novel feeling they have partaken of the politics and society of Victorian Britain.  One has brushed coats with the Duke of St Bungay, compassionated the fall of Lady Laura, and shared the warmth of the Chiltern drawing room.  It's not Trollope's best work, but it would make stunning television were it to be remade with the modernity required by current audiences, and it carries the reader on to Trollope's next novels, with full assurance that he is one of the greatest pleasure givers of all time
