Benjamin worked on mountainous piles of notes,for about thirteen years beginning around 1928 for his infatuation with les passages, those passageways,girded with black iron canopes where we buy  umbrellas,tobacco,shoes,books,and women. It was a microcosm of the most  important city in the world, the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the  twentieth century. It was the only city Benjamin preferred to live in  despite the economic hardships of a struggling writer to do that. He found  Paris at the edge of technology,much like our Silicon Valley is today,it  was the beginning of progress so to speak,but with Washington and New York  thrown in, all mixed in a fantastic quagmire of  innovation,invention,excitement,and where the old preserves the new. Layers  of cultural artifact, burdened with the scraps of histoy,all to be  explained. Iron,for instance,a building material is a focus, on  architecture and the Eiffel Tower, the feathery like weightlessness of the  mammoth black innovative girders seen just about from anywhere in Paris. It  was a step backwards for no one knew how to deveop it,simply display  conceit for the colossolness of it,much like Victorian England,its bridges  with giant sized rivits, thousands of them. Architecture, technology,  photography were all items for Benjamin to spend his imagination here,  discovering the ends of things, the values of the old. You learn French  history in great detail,with notes copied as well from 1878, The Paris  Commune is a chapter, one of revolution, as seen from a reader of  Marx,rather than a staunch Marxist. Still Benjamin drew on the the progress  of capitalism and where it fell down profoundly resulting in World Wars,  and the emergence of some of the darkest pages in European history.  Prostitutes and gambling are spoken of in one chapter, I found this boring  and just idle passage work.Literature is visited as well with profile-like  chapters on Baudelaire,the theory of knowledge, and Benjamin always  inscribes a profundity, one of those items that is a recepticle a conduit  for millions of thoughts preserved in one place.&quot;At no poin in time,  no matter how utopian, will anyone win the masses over to a higher art,  they can be won over only to one nearer to them&quot;. Something E trade  practices everyda
