I like this little book. As some have noted, it has its errors and its inadequacies, but it does a good job of presenting the fundamental problems with Christian history (and by extension with X-tian faith), so it gets four stars.  If you want to know what the world would be like living under a theocracy without traveling to an Islamic country, this book will be more than you want to know.  I found Ellerbe's use of illustrations from earlier centuries one of the more interesting aspects of the book.  One 19th century illustration of churchmen torturing a suspected witch is something I shall never get out of my mind, and I do not think I would have found it in any other book.  The illustrations alone make this book worth a close look.  The discusion of missionaries in the New World is also unforgettable.  And if anyone was ever in doubt about what real sin is by a Christian's reckoning, Ellerbe reveals it fully and clearly as sexual pleasure.  There is no doubt that sex is the biggest sin because it is the biggest of pleasures, all of which are evil. In the words of William Blake, "as the caterpillar chooses the fairest leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest lays his curse on the fairest joys." And yet the Christian witch hunt was itself a kind of sexual adventure, of course, in which sexually attractive people were zealously pursued and tortured because of the feelings they aroused in the faithful. Christian priestcraft has always involved this dynamic, and to some extent today the persecution of the sexually attractive has simply morphed into psychological abuses (if not child molestation); the psychology is the same. And as the author points out, in hunting witches it was always the keenest of sexual pleasures for witch hunters to subject their victims to the cruelest sexual humiliation and a painful death involving sexual torture, all in Jesus's name.  Only in that way could guilt inevitably be revealed (as the torturers became sexually aroused the guilt of the witch was confirmed). Ellerbe renders that dynamic in an easily accessible way to a readership who would never have the inclination to approach Foucault's "Discipline and Punish" or his "History of Sexuality," as examples.  That fact itself makes her book a highly worthy endeavor.  
