In Kay Hooper's latest novel of romantic suspense, "Sleeping with Fear," the heroine is thirty-two year old Riley Crane, an ex-army officer and federal agent assigned to the Special Crimes Unit. She is an expert on the occult as well as a clairvoyant with psychic abilities that come in handy in her line of work. As the novel opens, Riley is vacationing in a beachfront cottage on Opal Island, South Carolina. One afternoon, she wakes up covered in dried blood, with no memory of the last three weeks of her life. In addition, her psychic powers appear to be out of commission. Her boss, Noah Bishop, Chief of the FBI Special Crimes Unit, wants Riley to return to Quantico immediately. However, she convinces Bishop to allow her to stay on the island in order reconstruct her memory and figure out who messed with her mind and why.

The plot thickens when the headless body of a man is found hanging over a tree in what appears to have been a satanic ritual. Sheriff Jake Ballard reluctantly asks Riley for her help in solving the case, although he is furious that she dumped him for Ash Prescott, the local district attorney. Riley confides in her old army buddy, Gordon Skinner, that her mind is playing tricks on her, but she tells no one else about the gaps in her memory. She is even reluctant to be honest with her lover, Ash, especially since she barely remembers how their relationship began. The only certainty in Riley's mind is that someone close to her has targeted her for death. As the weeks pass, Riley senses that she is missing something important, but in spite of her best efforts, she cannot get a handle on the case.

"Sleeping with Fear" is a suspenseful and engrossing page-turner.  Riley is a courageous, tough, and tenacious protagonist, and her torrid relationship with Ash heats up the pages. Although the dialogue is a bit stilted and the conclusion somewhat implausible, books of this nature are meant to be escapist entertainment. Judged by this standard, "Sleeping with Fear" delivers the goods, skillfully combining romance, elements of the supernatural, and crime in a neat enough package to keep Hooper's fans coming back for more.
