This is a true a true story of the gigantic explosion in Halifax harbor in Nova Scotia on December 6, 1917, resulting from the collision of the Imo, a Belgian relief ship, with the Mont Blanc, a munitions ship carrying almost three thousand tons of explosives. The explosion was so great that its effects were later studied by Opphenheimer to predict the results of an atomic bomb explosion. It is an event that is probably not well known by later generations, but is interesting to learn about, both on account of its enormity, and because of the manner in which it was handled by those so devastated.

The "Curse" is a minor part of the story related by the author, but ties in neatly to the great disaster. Laura Mac Donald did a superb job in researching the details of the fatal explosion and its aftermath. She recounts the particular events leading up to the gigantic explosion and its immediate results with great precision, and even provides a map so the reader can follow what happened. But when she begins to tell us how the survivors reacted, where they were and where they went, the map's deficiency shows up because there is not enough detail to trace their steps and corrolate their movements with the narrative. However, I count this observation as a minor criticism, for she richly details the physical and emotional effects of the explosion on the Halifax and Dartmouth residents. 

While the explosion is certainly an important part of the whole story, the more interesting part is that which followed, the reponse of the people involved in this great tragedy, and their ability to cope with it. Many of those who badly needed help themselves were willing to help others in whatever way they could. In a single instant, more than 2000 people were killed and more than 6000 were seriously wounded, and 9000 were left homeless. The scale of destruction was enormous. And then came, almost immediatley, the effort to provide treatment and relief for those who were suffering. Those efforts were, in so many cases, absolutely heroic. The few doctors and nurses that were available worked around the clock for two to three days. Manual labor was needed to restore those buildings left standing into temporary hospitals and clinics. Because communication ability had been destroyed, messages needed to be gotten out for help and it was necessary to physically send someone to the nearest town to broadcast the alert for help needed. Then did the reponses come; from Montreal, from Ottowa, from Maine and Boston and Rhode Island, as well as New Brunswick. Doctors and nurses and auxiliaries were needed, and they came. The Red Cross came to provide relief services. The response was heroic, the help provided was monumental. It is a story of man's HUMANITY  to man !  What they did for the beleaguered population of Halifax-Dartmouth was awesome.

The Christmas tree sent each year to Boston by Novia Scotia is a subtle but profound expression of gratitude for the great effort that the City of Boston made to provide help in the disaster. Almost overnight they organized a train to ship great quantites of medical supplies and clothing and other necessities, as well as providing doctors and nurses. Boston's response was seen as the supreme act of charitableness in a time of the greatest need.

The book is well-researched and well-written, and contains five appendices, providing statistical information on the disaster, the names and relationships of many residents in the disaster (some killed, some surviving), a look to the future of disaster management, an interview with Francis Mackey (the pilot on the Mont Blanc, the ship loaded with explosives), a listing of all the ships in the harbor on that fateful day, and a discourse on whether the tragedy was an accident or the result of sabotage.

Because this work was so well-researched and documented, it may forever stand as the definitive account of what happened at Halifax-Dartmouth on December 6, 1917. Mac Donald does, however, graciously and grandly, offer recognition of all the written materials that preceded her work. This book is certainly worth reading
