I read "The Veil's Edge" by Willow Polson recently. 

The book is very interesting but it is not one I'd recommend to beginners. You really need to have a solid grounding already in working magick to get much out of the book.  Intermediate to advanced Wiccans in particular will likely find the book of interest as it goes into topics that are barely touched on in most other books.

The book is not difficult to understand; Willow does a really good job of explaining what could be a very complicated topic. Anyone who wants to use the information in the book needs to have a solid understanding of magick before they start reading this book as it doesn't rehash all the 101 info that readers should know.

The book is basically about other planes of existence, whether they are described as the astral realm, the world of spirit, the land of faery, or something similar. It's about the possibility of there being other dimensions of existence that are invisible to us normally in this physical realm. The book is about how these other realms might be explained, and how people who use magick might interact with those realms.

The book starts by trying to explain the possibility of these invisible realms by drawing on the ideas of quantum physics. It was very interesting to read (and admittedly these theories are presented in other books in a similar way) but the skeptical side of me wonders whether real-life quantum physicists would say their theories are being misrepresented. There were a number of ideas, like the concept of observer-influence on things observed, which I suspect might be misinterpreted and made into something they aren't really in order to validate paranormal claims.

Regardless whether the scientific claims made are valid or not, the book does provide some useful ways of thinking about working at least some types of magick.  And even if the scientific claims are not 100% accurate, it's good to have books like this which will challenge us to reconsider what we think we know about the nature of reality -- the truth is often much stranger than what we can imagine.  It would be nice if we'd see more books like this, ones which present new ideas or even old ideas presented with new understandings, instead of the many books that come out which are nothing more than old material rehashed and presented again for the hundredth time.

Wiccans and those who practice magick who already have some solid experience who are looking for some fresh ideas for their magickal practice would find this book refreshing. People new to Wicca or magick should probably wait until they're more experienced before picking up this book and checking it out
