Davis has our middle aged family sleuth deciding to pursue a case in Greece based on a letter sent back home by Helena's brother, Aulus. The brutal murder at Olympia of Valeria Ventidia, newly-wed to Statianus and the decided lack of local government interest in the matter, coupled with the previous death of Caius Secundus' daughter, Marcella Caesia, on the Hill of Cronos, means our acerbic sleuth tries to hotfoot it off to Athens to track down the mystery killer but, instead, finds himself on the ancient version of the package holiday under the auspices of the Seven Sights tourist travel company headed by its unctuous salesman Polystratus and the chief guide, Phineas.
So, with Helena and their adopted daughter Alba, plus Glaucus, a bronzed would be athlete, son of Glaucus senior, and his two nephews, Gaius and Cornelius, Marcus heads off to Greece to track down the tourist party with its murdered member.
After visting Olympia (which is portrayed as resembling the aftermath of a music festival) and surviving an attack on his life whilst digging a little too deeply by Milo of Croton, they catch up with the party at Corinth and finally get to interview the tourist group (once authorised by the wet-behind-the-ears Aquillius Macer). There is Tiberius Sertorius Niger and his wife with two children, the middle-aged Helvia, the shabby Volcasius, Indus and Marinus, two old friends, Cleonyma and Cleonymus - the latter who ends up murdered fairly shortly afterwards - Minuca and Amaranthus and finally the recently deceased Turcianus Opimus.
After a meeting with the elusive and mysterious Philomela and catching up with the unctuous Phineas they hot foot to Delphi and Lebadeia to track down the mourning Statianus and Aulus, finding the latter in Athens after Helena tries her hardest to get killed by the oracle at Lebadeia and temporarily finding the former before he is also on the receiving end of a murder. 
So, our slickly written and fast paced murder mystery has multiple murders with very little common thread for Marcus and Helena to puzzle through and we get a fitting  denoument when we find the aunt of the first murdered girl and end up exercising a truly Tantalan stew as a gruesome climax.
Falco is not a terribly good traveller and it would be fair to say that the best Falco novels are those set in Rome. His unavoidable accumulation of familial clutter is also weighing his sleuthing down somewhat and sending him into the spiral of mental sleuth rather than action sleuth. I'm not convinced that Davis' choice to send him down this path is generating similar quality novels of as shown in earlier mysteries but I can understand the reality behind it. As ever, Falco is an enjoyable sleuth amongst an ever-expanding genre and well worth the time and money. 
Buy it.
