This book turned out to be a total surprise to me. To look at the cover you'd think this was the book version of a made-for-TV movie about that evil group the Taliban, probably starring several of Hollywood's younger stars and with a formulaic plot that starts out irrelevant and only gets worse. Funny thing, when you get past the cover, there's a lot more inside this book than you'd expect.

Ahmed Rashid turns out to be a serious, balanced journalist, with a very objective point of view and an almost unblinking eye for the misdeeds of governments and individuals. He has written for years for the Far Eastern Economic Review, and while there coined the phrase "New Great Game" to describe the competition between the United States and Russia over Central Asia's gas and oil resources and the transport corridors to move these to market. This book is the product of his writing about the region for most of the period covered, and appears to have been constructed from the ground up: there's no disclaimer in the front telling you that part of this book was originally an article in a periodical somewhere.

The book was finished prior to 9/11. In fact, even the USS Cole bombing hadn't happened yet when he finished writing, so the references to Osama bin Laden restrict themselves to crediting him with the East African embassy bombings in the late 90s. This means the reader gets a valuable look at the Taliban and by extension Al Quaeda before we all had our opinions of them colored by the attacks of 9/11. Interestingly, the book in this regard only reinforces the opinion I already held: the Taliban were lunatics who had no clue how to run a government and respect other people's rights, and were uninterested in learning.

If I have a quarrel with the book it's the writing style. The author is a journalist, but he doesn't write for Newsweek or the Washington Post. His sentences are long and full of either unneccessary commas or missing ones, making the phrasing hard to follow, and sometimes his thoughts are difficult to discern. Throughout the book he abbreviates things, and since he only once tells you what the abbreviations stand for, it can get a bit confusing. A glossary of abbreviations and terms would have been a good idea. The print is small and the pages are full of type: the margins (especially the bottom one) are among the smallest I've ever seen professionally printed. Though this book is only 200+ pages, it is actually much longer than that would make it appear.

I enjoyed this book a great deal, and other than the difficult prose I would recommend it to anyone interested in the subject
