   For a book centered around the chaotic complexity of human moods, it is difficult to assess Kay Redfield Jamison's effectiveness in depicting her illness in a similarly jumbled way. The layout of her memoir adheres to chronological order, but it always seems to be moving in circles without progressing the story. She presents the same vibrant highs and morbid lows over and over. At points, I found myself losing interest as she described her extreme moods yet again, simply using different words. But the repetition is also important for understanding her battle with manic-depressive disorder. Her experience was characterized by constant sways back and forth between bursts of uncontrollable, energetic buying sprees (75) and preoccupations with death (38), and it would be impossible to sympathize with Jamison without understanding these exhausting shifts. 

   The characters she interacts with throughout the book serve a similar purpose. With each family member, new lover, or colleague, she ultimately ends up describing the same kinds of relationships. Either she spends pages addressing a never-to-be-forgotten thank-you to her psychiatrist to whom she owes her life (84-88) or reprimanding a doctor's inability to understand her disorder (190-193). Most characters are then mentioned in depth once, resurfacing only in reference later. Though once again, the decision to present them in this manner is admissible because of the nature of her beast. People's responses to an illness of such severity will be either of two options: they will choose to understand or they will not. There is no way to be indifferent about her disorder. As for the inconsistency of the characters, too many people have played significant roles in her life for her to develop each of them fully. Focusing on only a few would have reduced the complexity of her struggles. 

   Overall, Jamison does a beautiful job of shedding light on a disorder that many may have crossed in their lives without ever understanding it. Her words are honest, and she had done a great service in sharing her story.
