There are certain literary works which have pervaded the entire fabrication of life;they've become cliches. William Shakespeare's "Hamlet" provides a classic example,Count Leo Tolstoy's "Anna Karenina" falls in the same school and so does Charles Dickens's "A Tale of Two Cities". The imnportance of "Hamlet" resides not so much in the actual twists and turns of events as the distortion and abject frustrations confronted by the eponymous protagonist;"Anna Karenina" is in more degree the symbiotic paradox connecting an individual and the circumstances than the experiences undergone by Anna;"A Tale of Two Cities" focuses more on the individual characters and their respective metamorphoses than the events which actually provide the chasms for their expressions. Compatably, Herbert George Wells's "The Time Machine" is a fantastic science fiction that has translated into a household item not because of the harrowing and equivocal experiences it alludes to but because of the unique conceivement of the idea.

A man,so aptly baptised by the novelist as the "Time Traveller",invents the "Time Machine",travels far off into the fading future and expploring it for eight absolutely maddening days,returns to tell his telling tale to a group of men who transpire more scepticism than compassion towards him. And that makes up the whole essence of "The Time Machine". Flying into the depths of time,cutting through "the blinking succession of day and night" with a strange blend of amazement and complex,confused emotions,the Time Traveller first steps somewhere in 8 million AD only to discover the entire human race fragmented into two diverse,distinguishable compartments. One set comprises of the pretty Eloi---weak and puny and fragile but with "a graceful gentleness,a certain childlike ease"---and the other covers the diammetrically opposite Morlocks---bestial and nocturnal,living underground and feeding on the Elois. The Morlocks hide the Time Machine,kills the protagonist's Eloi friend Weena and keep their counterparts in utter and constant fear. The Time Traveller escapes from these dark,dangerous creatures dwelling in a world bereft of intelligence,novelty and progress,only to land in a world furthur away in the future inundated with enormous crab-like creatures and huge white butterflies and not so much as a speck of flesh and blood. The Time Traveller then fast-forwards the creation of his genius to 30 million years hence and faces strange bugs,leeches and blood-red seas. All these in just eight days.

The link of events is thus sequential and smooth enough but under the plaintive and sometimes blunt description of events lurks a deeper intent of symbolism and of all attributes of art the thrill of symbolism is more intense than others. The pleasure and adventure of travelling in time always encharmed and fascinated humans and the translation of this figment of imagination into an element of fiction is what makes this the first novel by the late 19th.century and early 20th.century author a novelty of a massive degree. H.G.Wells's "The Time Machine" portrays how easily a tendency to venture into adventure can pave the way for a horrific misadventure. The Time Traveller comprehends that the widening gulf between the Haves and the Have Nots has resulted into seperation of mankind in the dim future and also realises that in several instances,he could "see some beginnings of ths even in our time,and in this future age it was complete". The bleakness of the future and the debauchery that's spreading over humans merge to provide the Time Traveller a masive insight into the future. The extinction of humans and of Nature's harmonious paradigms form the bulk of the book's weight.

Once you commence running after money,you simply can't contain yourself anymore;once you start hiring mistresses,it becomes too tough to turn back;once you imbibe the spirit of adventure,you liken yourself to consume it more and more. So with the Time Traveller. He goes back into the future defying all the dangerous consequences and never returns. The novel barely reaches 100 pages but short as it is,it exposes the uniqueness of this exquisite visonery author. It's really astonihshing just H.G.Wells exploits the most unrealistic on human dreams and actually reveals this English science fiction writers's incredible imaginative and creative flair. The idea of a Time Machine is a novel one and one that would find parralels in "The Island of Dr.Moreau","The Invisible Man" and "The War of the Worlds",other great works by the author. H.G.Wells's works always deal with themes that transform the unimaginable in to the imaginable,and,in spite of his writing nit invoking lofty diction or subtle descriptiopns,he's someone who could make the flow of the scheme of things genial and smooth.

"The Time Machine" is a highly entertaining and provocating book that has manufactured itself into a massive visoney work. It's unique and the first of its kind that has been the cause of rise os umpteen films and other entertainments and even to this day,retains the same charm that it created when first published. Artists may wither but their art is forever eternal and therein lies the success of the artists. And therein dwells the genius of H.G.Wells
