John Densmore is a musician involved in multiple projects.  He has also been involved in the theater.  But the like it or not, he will be forever remembered by millions of people as the drummer for The Doors, a rock band that had a 72-month run from 1965 to 1971.  In this book, he recounts those days.  

"Riders on the Storm" is a combination of his first person recollection of the events and a letter to Jim Morrison the charismatic artistic leader of the Doors who died in Paris in 1971 from drug/alcohol abuse.  In this letter, the author pours out his feelings about those days, questioning Morrison's motivation and expressing the things he never did while the lead singer was alive.

John Densmore, Ray Manzarek, and Robby Krieger, although competent musicians and talented songwriters, have always stood in the shadow of Jim Morrison. In fact, on the cover of this book, we find Densmore behind Morrison, peering over his shoulder.  The author tries to move of the background, asserting that he had a more important role in the band and several times that he is a superior drummer. 

Densmore give us little to indicate that he thinks very much of Manzarek.  We also see a bit about his maturation as a person - remember that these were four young men in their twenties, trying to figure things out with the extra distraction of fame, fortune and all that comes with it. He shares a lot about his relationship with his girlfriend, his philosophical growth and the conflicts of his lifestyle with his Catholic upbringing.

We see the conflicting thoughts as he recalls the good old days of the Door's sometimes dark music and riotous concerts but bemoans its use in dark, riotous and violent movies - a'la Apocalypse Now.  The young Densmore put down materialism yet owned a home and a Jag.  We see how he and the remaining members of the band did not want to `sell out', yet continue to produce books, collections and videos.  Hey, everyone's got to make a living.  Morrison was spared from "selling out" by drinking himself to death - hence the mystique.

This is not supposed to be a work of literature but one man's thoughts and feelings.  As such there will be conflicts, contradictions and emotion.  This is what make us human.  This is not written as an official history, but as a personal one.  As such, there will be discrepancies from other accounts.  If you add this to other accounts of those days, you will probably get a fairly accurate picture of how it really was.  Doors fans should pick this one up
