Francis Fukuyama is one of the most original and interesting political thinkers the world has today. In his first pioneering work 'The End of History and the Last Man" he argued that the world as a whole was moving in the direction of Liberal Democracy , and that when this ideal state came into being there would be in a sense the end of history as we know it. Now he has written a work in which he somewhat retreats from his earlier optimism, and focuses on the nuts- and- bolts of our present real- world situation.
And here he sees that the movement toward diminishing the role of the state which had its great impetus with the fall of the Soviet Union has not always brought about the desired results. Instead of there emerging stronger more liberal economies there have often emerged ' weak states' without the power to perform the basic state functions of law enforcement, defense, protection of property. 
Thus Fukuyama believes that there is an urgent need to engage in ' state- building' that will bring about proper governance. Here however he acknowledges that the theoretical and practical knowledge of state- building is not really sufficient. And that there should be a concentrated effort to provide the knowledge required. 
Fukuyama may remain optimistic about the ultimate end and direction of history but he sees great problems in the present and near future. He points to the state- breakdown in Africa, and the failure of state- building in other areas of the world. And he questions how successful the United States can be in building state- institutions for other societies. He points out that the British Empire succeeded in laying the foundation for only  one state, India. 
He also wonders aloud about precisely how strong the state should be . Clearly the former Soviet Union and totalitarian states which aimed to take over every area of life are one negative extreme. He contrasts the United States model with the far more state- centered  European one.
While Fukuyama centers on this particular major problem other political thinkers are focusing on other major problems , from globaliztion to nuclear proliferation, from the growing  American hegemony to the shifting of world- power to China and India. 
Fukuyama in a previous work also considered the implications of the biotechnological revolution which may be altering the character and definition of the 'human'. 
This is said not to undermine the importance of the problem that Fukuyama points to in this book, but only to indicate that it is not ' the beginning and the end ' of human problems, the one 'key to it all' or the problem which even must be most focused on at the moment. 
There is after all an 'energy crisis' ( Remember that one ) and a Demographic Dearth ( The developed  ) and the Social Security and Greying of Mankind Crisis and tens of others. 
Moreover it is by no means certain that the ' nation- state' will be the fundamental political unit of the future. I would not bet on anything else, but the new Europe seems to be trying to say something about new organizational frameworks for Mankind. 
 
