My only real complaint about this book is that Orlick seems to be an annoying intrusion. Both of the "Great Expectations" movies I saw deleted the role of Orlick, and I can't say I missed him. Along with "Oliver Twist," "Great Expectations" was one of my father's favorite Dickens books. (I suspect highly because of the literary reincarnation of Fagin named Magwitch.) Onto the text! Pip (who is still a child) has a frightening experience in a graveyard when the escaped convict Magwitch threatens him and demands a file and some food. When Pip goes to do so, we meet his sister who is not nice to him as well as her husband Joe who is good to him. (Undoubtedly, this tense marriage reflects Dickens's divorce.) Moving on, Pip delivers the file and food to Magwitch who is of course grateful. Sadly, Magwitch is captured, but he does remain grateful to Pip. Later, Pip meets the tragic but memorable Miss Havisham. Miss Havisham was left at the altar, and she never quite forgave the male sex for this. Interestingly, she has no concept of time, and while she has some friends who visit her on her birthday, they do not mention it. Miss Havisham trains her stepdaughter Estella to get revenge on all men. Pip continues to visit Miss Havisham and Estella for sometime. Soon, some good news comes from Mr. Jaggers. Pip learns that he is to be trained as a gentlemen. Pip knows that Mr. Jaggers is Miss Havisham's lawyer, so he suspects that the money is coming from Miss Havisham. (Why not? She has plenty. She doesn't use much of it.) Pip is accompanied by Herbert Pocket who is the son of Miss Havisham's cousin. Herbert then tells Pip of Miss Havisham's tragic past. And while she was a bit extreme in her reaction, we can feel sorry for her. Pip (who is falling in love with Estella) knows that she resembles someone, but he can't quite place who. There is a sad, but true to life scene where Joe comes to visit Pip (and because this kind man is not so educated) he causes Pip some discomfort in front of his new friends. In a scene of self sacrifice, Joe tells Pip that his education is more important. There is a disturbing scene with dissension between Miss Havisham and Estella. While we may feel sorry for Miss Havisham, the truth is she trained Estella to be so cold, and naturally Estella can only take it for so long. (It would seem even indirect revenge comes with a terrible price.) But the real drama is still to come. After thinking Miss Havisham was his benefactor for so long, Pip discovers to his horror that Magwitch (the man from the cemetery) was in fact his benefactor. While we may share Pip's horror, our opinion of Magwitch is to change rapidly. We learn that Compeyson was kind of a Uriah Heep who manipulated Magwitch. To make matters worse, it is punishable by death for Magwitch to return to England. Herbert tells Pip that he must help Magwitch. (We also learn that Compeyson was the man who left Miss Havisham at the altar. And we may reasonably infer that Compeyson was only after her money. Is that inheard of? Even today?) Jaggers then reveals that Magwitch is Estella's father. While some people tend to think that Charles Dickens disliked lawyers, Mr. Jaggers actually comes off fairly well. Pip and Herbert try to help Magwitch escape, but alas, it is not to be. Magwitch's death is very sad, but he is given some comfort in knowing his daughter is alive. Interestingly, Miss Havisham dies too and it is hard not to feel sorry for her. (She was traumatized as a young woman; she lived her life trusting almost no one; and so much of her life was spent on a revenge that ended in the alienation of Estella.) But all is not tragic. Herbert and Pip remain friends, and we can infer that Pip and Estella will marry. Possibly the best thing about this book is that Charles Dickens creates many links between Miss Havisham and Magwitch, but they never actually meet. While "Oliver Twist" was to remain one of my father's favorites, I think this book takes it to the next level. We see Pip as a child and then an adult, and while Fagin had notable redeeming points, Magwitch makes the redeeming points more prevalent
