Dubliners: A Rebellious Masterpiece

Ireland has a culture and people that is unfamiliar to many but; James Joyce brings the city of Dublin to life in his book the Dubliners.  Dubliners is a collection of 15 short stories examining the different aspects of society in Dublin, Ireland.  The book takes a look at controversial issues in Dublin from the view of James Joyce who lived much of his life there. 

  The first few stories examine the corruption of Dublin from a child's point of view.  Every story seems to progress in a way that the main character gets older and more mature. Each story should be read more than once in order to find the deeper meaning and fully understand the descriptive symbolism that Joyce often uses.  

In the first story "The Sisters" Joyce examines the corruption of the Catholic Church through the eyes of a young boy.  This is where the symbolism that Joyce uses begins.  Through the young boy's dream he describes the priest, "His face was a very truculent, grey and massive, with black cavernous nostrils and circled by a scanty white fur."  This shows how the child views the priest in the nightmarish manner, showing the ill nature of the priest. 
The theme of the child continues in the story of "Araby."  In this story Joyce describes a boy traveling east to get a girl an exotic gift.  This illustrates the great explorers traveling east to find rare and exotic goods.  The mysteries of the east fill this story and the treasure can only be found through reading.  

 "Eveline" enters into young adulthood.  This story describes a young woman who lives in poverty.  She is then swept off her feet by a man who gives her all she has ever wanted.  Now that she has all she has ever wanted, will she leave her whole life for the man of her dreams and the main land or will she remain?

The most acclaimed story of the book is "The Dead."  This is the last story of the book and is about a man who seems to please everyone but the one person who means the most to him, his wife.  Symbolism is very strong in this story and the description is almost song like.  "A few light taps upon the pane made him turn to the window.  It had begun to snow again.  He watched sleepily the flakes, silver and dark, falling obliquely against the lamplight."  The wife of the man seems to be saddened by something but he seems clueless to her thoughts.  This shows how even someone who is married is not aware of the feelings of his long life partner.

Dubliners is a book that explores a society of the hopeless and the corrupt.  It makes people feel as if they had visited Dublin and seen all of the things that the book describes.  I strongly recommend that everyone read this book who have an interest in the darker, and more sympathetic aspects of life.    
