 
This is an above board attack on an incompetent presidency, not just on George Bush per se. It confirms what we (Republicans) have always suspected about him and his presidency but didn't want to know, or admit to ourselves.  GWB and Dick Chaney can no more defend America than they can fight their way out of a paper bag.  It shows how little we Americans expect of our leaders. 

Maybe John Kerry did cheat with his medals, and had shifting values, but at least he served in the military.  It makes one wonder about these "Frat boy" Presidents.  They just don't seem to be made out of the same material as their fathers. GHW Bush was a true statesman and a credit to his race and to this country.  But the "GWB and Dick Chaney show" can only have one ending:  It will grind to a screeching halt, crash and burn, taking American prestige down a full notch with it.

In a time of one of the worse crisis in our nation's history, there sit Bush and Chaney with their hair on fire and their heads stuck in the sand hiding out, waiting for the "all clear signal," but then immediately running to the front of the line to the first photo op to take "unearned credit" for what the Firemen and Policemen of New York City and Rudy Guillani did. In a miltary chain of command, doing such as that would have been considered disgraceful and dishonorable -- not to mention immoral.  And for the leaders of a Banana Republic to have done so would have been laughable, but expected. For the leaders of the last standing superpower to do so is well beyond being just down-right embarrassing.  It is also unconscionable. 

I am not a Bush basher or hater.  He strikes me as a nice, not so very bright man.  Someone nice to have a beer with. Therefore it was extra important for me that this book's assertions be backed up with unimpeachable references.  In fact, that is one of the reasons I bought it.  A friend assured me that it was well-documented and he was not wrong. The documentation is thorough and unerring.

Nothing this adminstration has done since 911 has in the least vindicated the Bush administration's megaphone gradnstanding in NYC.  So, I was a little dissappointed that the book did not spectulate on what having an incompettent Presidency in these troubled times could mean for the Republic.  I suppose with Iraq, Afghanistan, and now Lebanon blowing up all over the globe, the incompetence of this adminstration speaks for iteslf.   I gave the book 4 stars. 
