Okay, now I am a huge fan of Buffy books (since the series ended I have to get my Buffy somehow) Before I bought the series, I read some of the reviews. Most of them were talking about how bad the book was, but I decided to give it a try.
WARNING: Spoilers ahead!
  I'm going to start with the bad points:
   The charcters of Buffy, Willow, Xander, Ghost of Tara, and Dawn are not very well written. Part of why Buffy is so great is that the language is so well written, but these 5 are not the same. Another bad point is that Dark Willow doesn't seem as evil as she was in the end of season 6. She seemed pissed off at the world instead of wanting to destroy it. Also she needed to capture all these women to give her more power. It seemed she was pretty unstopable in the show. But in the book she seemed to need to drain these witches of power just to fight the Scoobies. Finally, and probably the worst part, is that she kept summoning Demons to fight the Scoobies instead of doing it herself. That was a big Disappiontment.

    But in light of all that, Here are the Many good parts:

  I love the fact that Willow was haunted by The ghost of Tara. It was smart of Yvonne to do that to help give Willow some guidance in her darkest days. Dispite the 5 badly written charcters, Giles is great in this book. You can really feel his sense of conflict when Willow breaks his back, putting him in a wheelchair. You can relate to him and it brough a sense of 'this is an alternate reality. Willow could actually kill them'. Anya and Dawn really shine in this book. If you're a fan of these 2, this book is deffinetly for you. Most people don't do much with Anya and Dawn because "they're just two human girls right?' WRONG You've got a 1120 year old Vegence Demon and a girl that hold the Key to destroying the universe in her blood. Yvonne really bring the two of them into the mix and has them fight alongside Buffy, Xander, and later Giles when he regains use of his legs. (I was very happy because I love Anya!)

    Overall, the good outwieghts the bad. This trilogy is worth the buy If you love DarkWillow, Anya, Dawn, and Giles. If you don't like it at first, just give it some time. By the end you will be glad you bought it.
