Before Freud ruined so much of human relationships with his misguided and anti-human theory, people could have deep friendships across many, if not all, social and gender boundaries without fear of being labeled as deviate or shameful. In the mid-to-late 19th century, deep, and sometimes sexual  relationships between men, found a common theme. Male/male love was now seen, by well-educated devotees, as a rediscovery of ancient Greek traditions. Britain and America thought themselves the heirs to the Greco-Roman legacy, and those platonic (or not) friendships were a part of that. The role that Walt Whitman played in giving the movement a voice and a testament gets thorough treatment here. 

Unfortunately, the book has three significant flaws, two of which could be solved by editing and the third of which should send Katz back to the library. First, the jacket subtitle is `Sex Between Men Before Homosexuality" which is misleading and needlessly provocative. The book is much more about deep male friendships; the sexual aspects are really secondary to the narrative.   Secondly, the author indulges in far too many snickering, leering asides, such as "Could this have meant...?" "Were they really referring to (insert name of sexual act)?" To add insult, he feels compelled to explain the double -entendre of the word `tight'.  One thinks he didn't know his audience. He should have just used a lot of  emoticons!

The third, and most serious flaw is the lack of context. Having carefully established the nature and wide range of these relationships, he omits any mention of Freud and other researchers into human sexuality who only succeeded in making everyone more uptight than they were. To judge from this book  these Victorian proto-queens were only slightly bothered about the moral aspects of male-male sex, but after Freud, all that changed. Just a few pages about the difference in post-Freudian sexual anxieties would help the reader appreciate just how good most, if not all, of Katz's 19th century subjects had it.

An important book that needs to get over itself in some ways, Love Stories needs just a few more minutes in the dressing room before going back to the cotillion
