This is Hemingway's virtual personal account of the Spanish Civil War at the ground level. The central character is an American from Montana who speaks fluent Spanish and is known as the "dynamiter". He sides with the republicans, as did other Americans such as the Lincoln Brigade and many other westerners and soviets  pitted against the Fascists supported by the Nazis and Italians. The American, referred to as Roberto or Ingles by the guerilla band,  joins the band behind enemy lines  with the expressed purpose of blowing up a bridge to coincide with a republican offensive. The brutality of war is evident by Maria, with the band, who was brutalized and raped while her parents were shot just because they were republicans. In contrast, demonstrating that war is brutal on both sides, Pablo, the band's soddened leader, is traumatized with guilt and feelings of defeat that haunt him with own past butchering of townsmen that were friendly to the Fascists. There is a general feeling of despair as the band attempts to regenerate itself to action in the face of an enemy well supported by aircraft and weaponry. Another key character is Pablo's lady friend Pilar who, once associated with a famous bull fighter, speaks often of manliness and she takes over the leadership temporarily vacated by Pablo's morose fall into a drunken stupor. The discussion of Spanish views of manhood provide an opportunity for Hemingway to expose his fascination with bull fighting and machismo that is both courageous and revolting. Time is fleeting, although the paperback is almost 470 pages, within in the book as an accelerated romance develops between Roberto and Marie that heightens an expectation of loss as the two fall deeply in love. Hemingway consumes the bulk of the book with dialogue within the personalities in the band such as the gypsy and the old man who seems the most dependable and balanced member. Action picks up toward the end of the book as  Pablo's band prepares to take action while the Fascists search the mountains for Pablo's associate and his band on a neighboring mountain. As Roberto and Pablo's band seek to destroy the bridge, the republican attack formes in the distance. There is an expectation of great loss and the book climaxes with the attack on the bridge and you feel an uncertainness of doom for the central characters as the end is abrupt and almost shocking. The book is a classic and very realistic, it may be too long for younger readers but it certainly outlines the tragedies of war and perhaps underlines the horror of Civil War. One of Senator John McCain's favorite books as noted on the Imus in the Morning radio show last week
