  In 1985, three teenagers are murdered in Washington D.C. Each of the victims have names that form palindromes - Otto, Ava and Eve. At the scene are T. C. Cook, hard-boiled Detective Sargeant and two near-rookies, Gus Ramone and Dan "Doc" Holiday. The Palindrome murders are never solved despite the obsession and skills of Cook. Flash forward to 2005. Gus Ramone is married now and has two mixed-race children. Dan Holiday left the police force under a cloud. T. C. Cook, long retired, has been forgotten by nearly all, along with the Palindrome murders.

  But Asa Johnson, 14, is found dead with a bullet through his brain. No gun. No witnesses. Could the Palindrome murderer be back after a 20 year absence?

  The hunt for the murderer of Asa Johnson is the leitmotif for this compelling, if sometimes very quirky,police procedural.

  Gus Ramone is the central character. No superman, Ramone is career cop. Not burned out, but not an over-acheiver either. Ramone, of Italian/Hispanic ancestry has a black wife, Regina, and two kids: Diego, 14, and Alana, 7. Gus loves his wife and children dearly. His love for them and the problems of bringing a mixed-race male through the storms of adolescence form the second leg of the story.

  Holiday and Ramone have a "history." Holiday is convinced he was a great cop and would have become a legenday cop if it weren't for the straight-laced Ramone in the Internal Affairs Division. Holiday discovers the body of the teenage Asa Johnson and phones the police anonymously. Holiday then teams up with the real legend, T. C. Cook to prove that the Palindrome murderer is back - and to capture him. This is the third leg of the story.

  The fourth leg is an unsparing tale of the black criminal subculture. This is not for the overly sensitive.

  These four themes support some of those most masterful storytelling I've seen in a long time. Pelecanos has the workaday world of the police down pat. No superheroics: just hard work, persistence and some specially skilled people like Bo Greene, who is able to talk murderers into confessing.

  Ramone has a special interest in the murder of Asa Johnson, not because it is his case - which it is not - but because Asa was a friend of his son. Ramone's work on the case leads down some dark paths, which also brings Pelecanos into some very strange and frankly hypocritical sermonizing. Saying anything more than that would be a spoiler and I won't do that. Concurrent with Ramone's investigation, is the work of Holiday and Cook. Ramone and Holiday seem to bewalking down the road to a showdown.

  Despite the unwelcome and unnecessary excursions into cultural politics, "The Night Gardener" is a terrific police procedural and a social commentary as well. Well worth reading.

Jerr
