 People who wish to learn more about 'Buddhist Ethics' will find this book useful. Along with Damien Keown's books, Peter Harvey's study will be invaluable for those who have neither the time nor the resources to explore primary sources for themselves. 

 Why only 'four stars' then? Like other reviewers, I'm not so sure that Buddhist Ethics can be reduced to 'natural ethics' - or regarded as analogous to natural ethics, on the assumption that as no 'God' is involved, we are safely outside 'theistic' considerations. In the wish to distance themselves from theocentric ethics, some Buddhists have tried to present Buddhism as 'natural' religion. But in actual fact, the terminology involved - either way, reflects Western categories of thinking. 

 Consider some of the problems here. Neo-pagans, the followers of 'Wicca' etc.- might well define themselves as adherents of 'natural' religion. Are we to conclude, then, that they are Buddhists - by another name? 

 Admittedly, much that we would define as 'ethical' - in Buddhism, is safely rooted in empirical experience. But on further examination, notions like 'karma' and karmic retribution cannot be 'explained' along purely naturalistic lines at all. Indeed, taken at face value, one could argue that nature per se, provides little evidence to support the idea of karma, which is quite important to the ethical world view of the Buddhists. I'm not questioning karma - in its proper context, I'm just stating that when push comes to shove, Buddhists do not attempt to account for karma in crude 'naturalistic' terms. Rather, it is part of an essentially spiritual world-view. 

 Hence, if not informed by 'theocentric' considerations, Buddhist ethics are - at their upper end, as it were, informed by assumptions of a 'transcendental' nature. I make this observation, because it is all too easy to approach Buddhism from the outside, believing that it is all neatly packaged, without any of the complications found in theocentric ethics.   
This is not a criticism of Buddhism, just a reminder that it cannot be confined to 'natural' ethics, and may not be the simple, strictly 'rational' creed we once imagined.

 For the most part, the ethical world view of the Buddhists is marked by impartiality, cool detachment, nothing fevered. Such detachment is evidently derived from something deeper than mere 'natural' religion.     
 
  
