Of all English writers,Charles Dickens is the champion of the genre of "Bildungsroman",a department of fiction writing pertaining to growth and development of the protagonist. Dickens's writings are darkly underlined by an all-dimensionsal illustration of  aperson's character and by an uncanny portrayal of childhood. "Nicholas Nickleby","David Copperfield" and "Great Expectations" have gone into the literary folklore as novels containing some of the finest amd most vivid passages ever composed on children's psyche and indignified lives. Perhaps the author's this ability to paint children's woe stems froms his own abusive and disruptive boyhood and perhaps in several of his fancy's infants,Dickens was actually trying to reflect his very own horrible childhood. "David Copperfield" is undoubtably his most personal and in certain fractions autobiographical novel but in "Great Expectations",employing a compatible first person narrative method,Charles Dickens conjures up a very much real life character who,like David Copperfield,narrates the story of his life as he progresses through his childhood,errors of judgements and unseeming expectations to a tragi-joyous adulthood;as he stives on in life with a plethora of illusions;as he realises the moments of truth one by one.

"Great Expectations" is young Pip's story,a trajectory of his yearning to excel and drift away from the "oncommon",a desire to be loved and respected in society, a not-so-uncommon craving to grow up and establish himself. For an orphan living in the country marshes in England and brought up "by hand" by his sister Mrs. Joe Gargery,Pip's on;y genuine friend in his early boyhood was Jor Gargery,the blacksmith---also supposed by the central character to have been made to "marry her by hand". But a sudden and apparently misfortunate meeting with a fugitive from the nearby Hulks---and the consequent burden of guilt his troubled conscience has to bear---a visit to the queer Miss Havisham's and an unexpected deliverance of all his miseries all consire to Pip's rise in life. The mysterious London lawyer and master defender of criminals Mr. Jaggers arrives one day to inform Pip that if he would,then he is entitled to excercise a proposition of going to London and studying and doing all he can to rise up in life and be an established gentleman with no cost from his side---a mere boyish fancy of Pip till that moment. so marches on our gentle little gentry class boy to the city on te back of the notion that it was Miss Havisham who was actually his benefactoress and who had destined him and her adopted daughter,the cruel,unforgiving and heartless Estella,to be together. And thus begin young and inexperienced Pip's trysts with harsh realities of life.

In a novel that essentially figures around human expectations and failures through the tame medium of words,Pip's story is massively apt for the enlightenment of this theme. Pip is found to be a real-life character leafed out of life's own text book and not an imaginary effigy of fairy-tale gratifications,which David in "David Copperfield" in some stretch is. He's an ordinary person with extraordinary aspirations but as he moves on in life,he learns about himself and this personal growth is exquisitely and relistically portrayed by Charles Dickens. Indeed it's in a great city like London where truth dawns upon Pip,truth that demolishes all ethereals about life,about riches,about Miss Havisham and EStella,and most important truth of them all,the truth about himself. Pip runs into debt,makes several mistakes,is broken down and broken apart by an illusory love and endures fits of remorse,which punctuate his entire existence arising out of a marked ingratitude towards Joe and Biddy,his friend from his old school. His only means of moral salvation from this quicksand of sin is te hearty relationship with Herbert Pockets,his best friend and companion in all his catastrophes. Actually in Herbert and his father,also the tutor of Pip,Charles Dickens creates two characters dissolved in innocence and ignorance with no big aims for money. When all of Miss Havisham's near and distant relatives are coaxing her to milk her fortune,the Pockets are the sole remaining figures to brush aside such ideas. This is one of Dickens's numerous tricks as a writer to subtlely show that goodness can still be glimpsed in an otherwise sadly denudating world.

Charles Dickens is believed to have gone through his work "David Copperfield" thoroughly before writing "Great Expectations" but even so on certain occasions,the reader does decipher resemblance between these two high acclaimed novels. The shape of Pip's path i life doesn't bear that great degree of difference with these two popular fictional characters are often found to merge. Miss Havisham is reminiscent of Betsy Trotwood's resentment towards the male society,only more elongated and elaborate;in Pip's detest of Drummle and his love for Estella,the reader catches a fair glimpse od David's own contempt towards Uriah heep's lust for Agnes;Mr.Pockets and his family's fiascos and innocence bear a certain kinship with those of Mr. Micawber's;and Pip's deep friendship with Herbert reminds the reader of David's relationship with Traddles. These similarities could blot Dickens's claim to unprecedented imagination power or may strangely prove that life of one is often intertwined with aanother's. The first person narrative technique used to describe Pip's story in this book too isn't without some strong criticisms. The opinions and witty contemplations formed by Pip of people both is his marsh country as well as in London from an early stage in his life render the reader musing as to how his innocent and delicately humorous conjectures could suddenly be transformed into something satirical and concrete. Are his views constructed on the spur of the moment or are they being built now as Pip stares down the years and pens down his history? If the latter be more inclined towards the truth,then it definitely distorts Pip's authenticity as a writer and his memoir is left somewhat ineffective with misleading overlapping of the past and te present.

Certain detractions are not so difficult to eke out from "Great Expectations" really but flaws are a regular parameter of any work of literature. The genius of Charles Dickens is never in doubt in this book as the reader discerns the author's accustomed mingling of humour and dark pictures in a book that promises life as it is. Dickens's obsession with wit and humour is revealed in the features of Mr. Pumblechook and Mr. Wopsle and in incidents such as the latter playing Hamlet on the stage. That when perceived from te swift flow of narration perfectly complimented by the dialogues and conversations and punctuated by moods of reflections makes the book instantly appealing. The caricature of the marsh country is another point of revelation of the author's informed and classy state. The world of Dickens is one of individual identities and aspirations,where all characters find their own proper places. And this world isn't a big one but a narrowed and trimmed realm of compulsive non-overlapping characters all fuctioning significantly in the due course of Pip's realisation of the world and its intricacies.

The most beguiling factor in providing Pip's tale a touch of realism and in turn making the novel more touching and  endearing is the evident defects in his character. He feels remorseful at his ingratitude towards his poor and "common" family;he is exasperated at the return of his "old convict" years later and in his refusal to address him not as Magwitch,his real name,but as Provis,his assumed name,he subconsciously admits denial of his own humble past. Pip isn't mature enough to handle his own humble past. Pip isn't mature enough to handle his own present either,and time and again has to rush to Herbert and wemmick,Mr. Jaggers's assistant,for solace and help. As illusions fade one by one and emotions of al sorts jumble up together in Pip's life,he's found to portray at least fractions of our own lives. "Great Expectations" is vastly a cofession of a dilapidated soul whose expectations in life are not without unforseen twists and turns. This is an immensely moving tale of a young man's ineptitude and discontentment told in restrained sentimentality,empathic ruminations and glittering descriptions. This classic is a gem for any literature lover,where Charles Dickens;s authority as a writer is amazingly deft.  
