This was the book that started me reading more and more about politics, and the political influence that afflicts our country. I highly recommend it, and here's why.

In a hard-hitting, almost cynical style that I did appreciate, the author attacks companies that have raped the public and their employees because of their own greed. She names them like a littany of indictments that followed their wake: Adelphia, Tyco, Arthur Andersen, Enron, World Com, to name a few. Huffington shows how these once respected companies, their greed, and the relaxation of regulations have allowed them to virtually alter standard principles of accounting so they can hide money and cheat the government, taxpayers and employees.

Unlike one reviewer here who found her style sarcastic, I didn't mind. After all, these greedy little folks who walked away with millions after stranding customers and leaving employees pensionless, can take a little sarcasm their way. However, I agree with him the quizzes got in the way of the pace of the book, and seemed a little childish. (I always carry a highlighter for books like this one anyway.)

The most important thing Arianna makes clear is that politicians no longer seem to represent the people who elect them, but the interests of the corporations with the largest contributions. (It's called bribery outside of Congress.)  This administration has given their blessing with their silence, and has a huge following of people who still believe their gospel while they are getting their own pockets picked. The  repudiation of the pension for United Airlines is a perfect example. What did the administration say? Nothing, not a word! But let the poor, little guy declare bankruptcy, and Senator Orrin Hatch and other congressmen of his ilk will be after them on behalf of MBNA, forever.

It's strange that neocons who worship at the holy grail of unrestrained capitalism, have little to say about this book, or challenge its contents. For once they cannot retort with that tiresome, insipid lament, "Well, Clinton did...." It's about the greed that this administration, corporate CEO's, and congressmen have fostered and encouraged with sweetheart deals, no-bid contracts, tax breaks, loopholes, secret meetings, and even corporate protection laws. 

It's about people who never seem to have enough, no matter how much they already have. They will always want more
