This book was so adventurous and smart I couldn't put it down. It has 512 pages and I read them all in 2 days!
 Robert Doniger and his crew have discovered a wormhole and created a machine that can send people back in time to 1357 France. He begins sending people through the wormhole, but as all scientific discoveries, it has its flaws. The time travel begins to take its toll on everyone who goes through it. Some people are killed or left behind in 1357 France due to the war going on during that time, while some have simply gone through the wormhole too many times and slowly their insides become disfigured. The book goes into detail on how and why this problem occurs. In an attempt to prevent future deaths and to find those left behind, Donigen hires Professor Johnsten, an archeologist studying the remains of Castleguard, France, to provide him with more information on 1357 France so he can better prepare his time travelers. Of course, being an archeologist, Professor Johnsten wants to go see this time period for himself. Professor Johnsten becomes trapped in 1357 and his team begins to wonder about him being missing for so long. The book also goes into detail on how and why each person can only stay in 1357 for a certain amount of time. Professor Johnston's assiatant, Andre Marek, and a few of his students, Chris Hughes, Kate Erickson, along with a few people of Doniger's crew are asked to go back in time and find the professor in order to avoid the press getting involved and any lawsuites. Once in 1357 France, things begin to go wrong the moment they get there. Doniger's crew are killed and Chris gets separated from Marek and Kate. This begins their adventure full of battles and danger where they meet many interesting and some evil people, such as Lord Oliver, Sir Guy, Lady Claire, and Robert de Kere. 
This book is the most exciting thing I have ever read. I wish I could put more details about the book into this review but there is so much going on and so much to tell that it couldn't be told in less than... well 512 pages. This book also explains why and how everything happens. It gets a little wordy and complicated in the beginning, but it is crucial to the rest of the story. Michael Crichton does an excellent job of making sure the reader has no questions about how things happen. It is absoultely brilliant
