This is the 9th in Cook's Garrett series ("Sweet Silver Blues," "Bitter Gold Hearts," "Cold Copper Tears," "Old Tin Sorrows," "Dread Brass Shadows," "Red Iron Nights," "Deadly Quicksilver Lies," "Petty Pewter Gods," "Faded Steel Heat," "Angry Lead Skies," and "Whispering Nickel Idols"). As are all Glen Cook's books with the title format of [adjective][metal type][noun], this is an interesting, fun, action-packed read.  It's definitely a page-turner.  Unfortunately, the minor inconsistencies I noticed in the previous book seem to be propogating in this one.  Some of these errors are merely editing or lack of note-checking.  For instance, near the beginning of this book, Garrett's talking to CAPTAIN Block.  But, from two books back, we know that Block was promoted to COLONEL.  A hundred pages on, though, Cook's got Block back as a COLONEL.  In another case, Garrett's looking at a captured wagon.  He specifically notes ONE prisoner.  A couple pages later there are TWO prisoners.  One page later, THREE.  More seriously, there are behavioral problems.  For instance, Garrett and his harem can't keep their minds on their business.  In earlier books, Garrett's womanizing didn't really interfere in his business.  In this book, both he and the women just stop working on important things (like infiltrations, kidnappings and murder) for a little bit of groping.  And I mean they stop right in the middle of those things:  not afterwards.  Also, Garrett just misses obvious clues.  He narrates to us about them, but nothing apparently clicks in his head.  And then there's where he takes Tinnie with him to visit the headquarters of The Call (a militant human rights group).  But, as noted in earlier books, Tinnie is part elf.  Nobody ever notices.

These problems are still minor.  This is definitely a book to read (along with all the rest of the series).  But, because of these discrepencies, I've lowered my rating for the book to 4 stars out of 5 (unfortunately, I can't edit those stars on this review).

BTW: At the time of this review, this book is long out of print. It's tough to find anywhere. As an alternative, look around for the SFBC's "Garrett Investigates." This book is part of that collection
