John Milbank's title - `Theology and Social Theory' - is important - for it means something like `Christian theology and Pagan theology'. Social theory is pagan theology. Milbank believes we should see a straight confrontation between `The Christians' and the sinister new social engineers. 

Milbank tells us that the West tradition is not one tradition. It is has always been two contesting traditions, Christian, and something else that usually remains nameless, but which he just calls paganism. Paganism has always been around, right through the high days of Christendom. It is a constant temptation, and the secular or modern world is its latest revival. So the modern secular world is not non-religious. It just relates to an alternative religion, not the Christian one, but a pagan one.  
You may say that secular modernity does not look particularly religious. That is because secularity doesn't need to make its belief system explicit. But it is the job of Christian theologians to make explicit what that system is. Modernity is the classical religion of pagan Greece and Rome back again, back not explicitly as religion, but back as a mode of social engineering, and the atomising logic it produces. Social theory, and the social sciences therefore,  decide that we are individuals, by definition individuated and divided from one another, so that other people are by nature a problem, a problem that always solves itself one way or another, by exercise of power, that is, by some individuals robbing others of their individuality. 

Milbank is, rightly, critical of much contemporary theology because it is gullible enough to believe that what it thinks of new issues, `modern' and `postmodern', really are new. Modern theology has not had the confidence in the Christian tradition to search it for answers to the questions. It has got into the habit of sourcing its ideas from outside. Milbank believes that theology must escape the ghetto of social theory, and stop being merely  private religion, an inoffensive metaphorical talk, about our own inner spiritual or emotional states, that has no impact on the world. We can leave this ghetto by following Augustine and the whole catholic Christian intellectual tradition that understands the distinctiveness of the Christian community, the Church. What about everything Milbank has done since 'Theology and Social Theory'? It is all still waiting for one thing to fall into place for Milbank - the doctrine of the God whom Augustine loved. 
