What this book sets out to do is teach how to change from reactive, ego driven trading to trading in "The Zone" by using a preset system as opposed to trading based on your emotions and ego, which is very destructive to new traders. The book was a great complement to the other 20 trading books I have read. This one really drove home the importance of finding a system that works and then mechanically staying with it and not getting greedy or fearful and just start gambling. Your system should include stop losses to keep losses limited, when to take profits, and what indicators will give you entry and exit signals. This book is for traders that already understand the technical aspects of trading. The book focuses almost entirely on the beliefs and desires of traders that make them unsuccesful. The book recommends executing 20 trades using your system of choice in a purely mechanical fashion. This teaches discipline and takes out the guessing game. This gives you consistent casino odds as opposed to the odds of a gambler jumping randomly in and out of the market.The importance of working a consistent system is supported in almost all trading books.

The 5 principles of thinking in probabilities 

1. Anything can happen
2. You don't have to know what is going to happen next in order to make money.
3. Ther is a random distribution between wins and losses for any given set of variables that define an edge.
4. An edge is nothing more than an indication of a higher probability of one thing happening over another.
5. Every moment in the market is unique.

I am a consistent winner because:
1. I objectively identify my edges.
2.I predefine the risk of every trade.
3. I completely accept the risk or I am willing to let go of the trade.
4. I act on my edges without reservation or hesitation.
5. I pay myself as the market makes money available to me.
6. I continually monitor my susceptability for making errors.
7. I understand the absolute necessity of these principles of consistent success and, therefore, I never violate them.

This review can not do enough justice to this book, buy it, read it
