With its haunted mansions and American "aristocrats," I tend to remember this as a far-fetched story, yet it always succeeds in drawing me into its world, on its own terms. This past reading I saw more depth and even believability to the story than I have ever seen before. Even the haunted mansion, with the ghost's New Orleans connection, has an American (as opposed to faux-British) reality.

Nicholas, the cold, controlling husband, is not so far-fetched for a 19th century man raised in absolute privilege. The spiritual isolation inherent in that believeably fuels his madness. Miranda's sufferings with him are not too far from any abusive marriage with a great disparity of power between the man and woman.

Seton's gift in this story is in making us identify completely with Miranda's experience. Her distaste for farm life and desire for a better world are sympathetically portrayed (and in the end perhaps punished too harshly by fate).

I disagree with Phillipa Gregory that Miranda "treads a well worn path" or that she is derivative of Jane Eyre. What Seton does so well is take the fantasy of the standard romance novel, of the type Miranda is reading when the story opens, and turn it on its head, making it both real and dark. In those stories, marrying the wealthy, high born hero is the beginning of "happy ever after." For Miranda, that event is literally the end of the dream and the beginning of the nightmare. Because of who Nicholas is and what he did to make the "dream" real, the reality can only be painful. And if he had been different kind of man, it would never have happened.

Miranda is almost the opposite of Jane Eyre in personality and desire. Jane never wants to belong to the aristocracy; it is Miranda's fantasy. As an orphan governess, Jane is inherently an outsider to the world of wealth and elegance; as a relation, Miranda can, within limits, have whatever status her relatives choose to let her have. They can treat her as family or a glorified servant. In that sense, Johanna's treatment of her is a form of petty cruelty. Jane prefers the simple to the grand; Miranda of course does not.

Yet the two women's stories share a similarity, in that for neither of them is it the love story, the hero, who ultimately provides the happy ending. It is their own spiritual growth. This is what raises Dragonwyck above the simple Gothic novel. In those, it is escaping from the bad man to the good one that signals happy ever after. In Dragonwyck, it is Miranda's realization of her own weakness, her acceptance of responsibility, and the integrity she gains, that provide the happy ending.

So read Dragonwyck and enjoy the tour of 19th century America's own aristocrats, Gothic figures (Poe), and struggles with the meaning of democracy. Plus two love stories: a chilling story of the "subjugation of the soul" and the kinder gentler story of two people who initially turn their noses up at one another. 
