The book and its protagonist come off as "bitchy", "effeminate" and "French."   On a good day, these qualities might be interesting and even charming in a drop-dead sexy woman who is undressing in front of you. That's especially true if you have the option of shipping her back to Europe the next day, forever.  But these same qualities are a bit too much in an olfactory scientist who may (or may not) be on the verge of cracking the sensory-neural code for smell.  Frankly, I wasn't able to make it through the entire book given the grandiose portrait that emerged.  This story will be MUCH more interesting if it turns out that Luca Turin's fascinating theory and brilliant predictive model end up being correct.  If that's the case, then I'll be the first to suggest that we wash him in a glorious spicy and sweet scented bath of vindication and validation.  (Somebody else needs to hold the sponge).  

Having said all this, I have the strong sense that Luca Turin is an intuitive and creative genius, with the overflowing passion and insight needed to make unique breakthroughs. It would appear that he's using some kind of synaesthetic sense to perceive and describe the olfactory sense.  In a world filled with competent but unimaginative nirasas, people like Turin are worth their weight in gold. They forge forward filled with passion, conviction, dedication and vision (or in this case smell). They accumulate enormous amounts of information but are unconstrained by the shackles of convention.  The biggest problem for these people occurs when they return to earth with their alien messages.  They find a mass of people in a cave, watching shadows, and who do not have a schema for new information.  In Turin's case, he's found brilliant metaphors to describe his olfactory dream world, but he is still struggling to present his Martian understanding in a language and style that is acceptable to scientists.  He's trying to translate what he knows based on experience into validated, empirical, accepted scientific truth.  It is a long road and at times he's a lousy driver. Trying to run Nobel Laureates and other great olfactory scientists off the road is akin to road rage.  Good luck. 

I think its great that so few people believe Turin's theory and that evidence is mounting against it.  I say this now because I'm betting that his theory is correct in general form, and that science will ultimately validate a theory that looks like his.   So I'm jumping on the bandwagon now, while it is still is fairly empty.  Maybe that means something.   I'm no expert on the chemo-senses, and my understanding of smell is highly limited.  But I do know something about sensory systems in general, and about frequency-like coding in vision, hearing and touch.  In the visual system, frequency-like coding channels are everywhere... in the cones that are differentially sensitive for wavelength, and in the higher visual areas that are selective for spatial, temporal and other frequencies.  The ear and it's cochlea are clearly frequency analyzers, with "critical bands" and tonotopic variation represented clearly in the brain.  The skin contains frequency selective mechanisms, too, as made implicit in Bolanowski's classic model. As our understanding of haptic perception improves, I'll bet that we'll find cortical detectors selective for tactile spatial and temporal frequencies. Whatever. My key point is that other sensory systems reek of just the kind of processing that Turin advocates for smell. 

I was interested in this book because I was interested in his scientific theory more than anything else.  I learned about it in the new sensation and perception text by Wolfe et al. (2005). I found plenty here to help me understand it (though there's a reason I'm not a chemist).  I'm finding that there are better ways to become familiar with Turin's scientific theory than purchasing this book.  Turin's Flexitral website provides the excellent references, including many available for download.   The J. Theoretical Biology (2002) seems to be the most accessible, but I have yet to see the more recent papers, including a 2005 book chapter. According to the website, Turin has published, or is about to publish, a book on the subject.   

One more thing--The ultimate tests of Turin's model and any decent model of olfactory processing will be conducted by neuroscientists and psychophysicists, not a bunch of chemists. (See, e.g., the new book by Wilson & Stevenson). And the tests will involve olfactory detection as opposed to olfactory discrimination and odor prediction.   I'll even suggest the technique.  Measure olfactory threshold functions for a bunch of different chemical odorants.  Measure these thresholds in a bunch of different individuals, creating a big data base of individual differences.  Then use the  individual differences to figure out what goes with what.  If Turin is right, factors will emerge that conform to his vibrational theory.  Simple.  See my published papers on individual differences in visual processing.  

I may return to finish this book at a later date.  That's all for now.
