Brianna Wyatt is an early 20's young woman who has spent many years lovingly bringing up and trying to protect her younger brother, who is blind and partially deaf, from their father.  They both live at home with their business magnet father who wants nothing to do with them, after their mother runs away.  Now that her brother is 16 and turning into quite the young man she thinks there may finally be a light at the end of the tunnel and she and he might escape her father.  But, suddenly Brianna's father wants to see her.  While in the back of the limo she is stunned to find out that he expects Brianna to furnish him with an heir. Not just any heir, but an heir by millionaire Cole Masters, as part of a business arrangement, and the penalty if she doesn't?  He will send her bother to an institution.  Brianna feels trapped and reluctantly goes along with her father to Cole's house.

Cole Masters is a 30's businessman who is a rising star in the world of business.  He is stunned when he receives the contract from his lawyer.  The crackpot Andrew Wyatt wants him to father an heir with his own daughter.  He is shocked that this idea has even passed Wyatt's mind, let along that he thinks Cole will agree to it.  When Wyatt shows up at his house he agrees to meet with him, even though he has told the man "no way" is he going to go along with this crack pot idea.  Cole is stunned when the man brings in his daughter for part of the discussion.  Cole is instantly drawn to her and is stunned by the man's attitude to his daughter when she has an asthma attack.  Cole decides he is going to keep her for a while, if not forever, but not on her fathers terms.  He kicks the father out and decides that he will make a deal with her to stay with him, and do as he says, and he will get her bother out of his father's house safely.  He even thinks that she won't mind spending time with his best friend, which is something that he and Tyler have secretly done for years.

Tyler Cannon has knows Cole since grade school, and is now his heads up his security.  They have been best friends forever, and have also shared a taste in women and have on occasion shared them intimately.  He thinks Cole is kidding when he says what Andrew Wyatt had in mind for his daughter and Cole.  But, he is also taken with Brianna as soon as he sees her and also, doesn't want to let her go.  When 

Brianna is stunned that anyone would care for her enough to help both her and her brother, especially against her fathers' wishes.  But, she becomes a believer when they indeed move him into Cole's house and treat him with respect and like the young man he is which, is something her father has never done.  When suddenly it looks like someone is out to get Brianna she is further stunned to see that it is really scaring both Cole and Tyler, for her safety.  She knows she has finally found her home.

For a debut novel this is a fantastic story.  Her heroes will make any woman drool.  She also tastefully puts together some very hot erotic stories.  Don't get me wrong this book is intended for adults only, but she has put some actual thought into the characters as well as the sex.  I can't wait for her next installment.

