In my opinion Easy Riders, Raging Bulls is the best book ever written about film and while this book never quite matches it, it is a very good book in its own right.  It tackles the rise (and in Biskind's view fall) of independent film making concentrating on Robert Redford (and the Sundance festival); Harvey and Bob Weinstein (and their company Mirimax) along with a host of film makers and actors including Quentin Tarantino, Stephen Soderbergh, Kevin Smith, Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and many others along the way.

Told in much the same style as Easy Riders, Raging Bulls it is a wild mixture of serious comment and salacious gossip.  Biskind writes beautifully, handling another huge topic with an enormous cast of characters deftly.  He is assisted by the fact that many of the players and the films are already well-known to the reader but he has a wonderful talent for the one-line character profile (often a one-line character assassination) and he chooses his quotes well.

It is evitable given his larger than life personality and aggressive business practices that Harvey Weinstein comes to dominate the book in much the same way as the Weinstein brothers have dominated the independent film business.  Harvey Weinstein is a fascinating although in many ways deeply repellent character - very aggressive, prone to outbursts of rage, guilty of some very dubious business practices, a man who will shaft someone just because he can - however he is responsible for some of the best films of recent years and at least he loves movies (unlike some of his competitors).  In Biskind's view he made the independent film business.  Taking it out of its niche and finding a much wider audience but he is also responsible for corrupting it; as Mirimax increasingly became a studio with a more conservative attitude, eschewing rather than courting controversy, and an ever increasing reliance on stars.  This has made life much more difficult for genuine independent film makers like John Sayles and Spike Lee who find it very difficult to get funding.

Absolutely fascinating, particularly if you are familiar with the films of the period (or if you want to be reassured that you do not have the worst boss in the world).
