I get so tired of this worn-out formula: 1) loser gets tangled up with a saintly married woman, 2) the woman has a spiritual epiphany due to a V1 rocket explosion and dumps loser, 3) loser's unconscious resentment plays out - indirectly resulting in the death of the woman and in the loser becoming impotent.  Not exactly an advertisement for infidelity.

Seriously though, the story must have seemed pretty racy when the book came out, but the provocative material is certainly mitigated by Greene's message which is a broadside aimed at a form of atheism that was fashionable in London around the time it was written.  

Belief is scoffed at as mere superstition in increasingly frenzied arguments against belief until the very rejection feels like a superstitious reaction itself (a la Freud).  But disbelief is the only protection the loser, Maurice, believes he has from the punishment for his sin.  You can almost hear Distorted Angel playing in the background: "...the way she's making me feel, it can't be a sin."  But coincidences pile on one another to the point that disbelief is no longer a reasonable position, and Maurice is led to the inescapable secret knowledge that there is a God.  

The idea of a secret revelation that must be denied because its admission would call down damnation is pretty resonant, but this is where I lost my patience a little.  All the jealousy and hatred employed in the set-up just seemed silly and juvenile to me.  Maurice is not just a jerk; he's such a pitiful emotionally-stunted, self-styled intellectual whose attempts to break out of the comfortable, ordered world he's created are so desperate and inept that it's almost a relief when he falls back defeated.  Could Greene's own feelings of self-loathing have prompted him to blacken Maurice's character a little too much and to paint his options a bit too starkly?

I'm reminded of remarks Huxley made years after Brave New World was published:  he said that he regretted making the protagonist's choice in the end so black and white between a completely materialistic society and life as a savage.  There were less drastic alternatives he wished he'd explored.  This book is an interesting and accurate description of the ways guilt manifests when true love offered is not accepted (a specific species of infidelity), but I wish Greene had explored less drastic alternatives.
