Any book by John Murray is a reliable source for sound biblical Reformed theology. In this book, Murray expounds ethics from a conservative evangelical Reformed perspective. Though many postmodern, neo-orthodox, postliberal, or moderate Christians will find Murray's positions outdated he admirably does a good job sticking to Scripture even if the view he expounds is distasteful to modern sensibilities (for instance, Murray's take on slavery). The great thing about this book is that it is not only theological but also practical. He deals with ethical issues that are very pertinant to how Christians are to live in this sinful world. The topics he treats include such things as marriage, work, preservation of life, and speaking the truth. He also give us an explanation of the meaning of the Sermon on the Mount (chap. 7) and how law and grace are related (chap. 8). Many lay Christians will find these chapters very relevant to their Christian existence on earth.

Having said that, Murray's understanding of the relationship between the law and gospel is questionable. It appears that Murray knocks down the wall that divides the law and gospel (a position that has been held by Protestants for the last 500 years). In fact, in one place Murray espouses the traditional Reformed view of the law and gospel: "The simple truth is that if law is conceived of as contributing in the least degree towards our acceptance with God and our justification by him, then the gospel of grace is a nullity" (p. 182). And then he later writes in the same chapter what seems to nullify his previous statement: "In all of this the demand of obedience in the Mosaic covenant is principally identical with the same demand in the new covenant of the gospel economy" (p. 199). For Murray, the new covenant is really no different from the Mosaic covenant because both have a  real (not hypothetical) promise-demand structure. Only those who persevere in obedience to the law in both dispensations will inherit the future blessing of eternal life, according to Murray. Another problem is that even though this book was written in the 1950s, Murray writes as if he was writing this book in the 1850s! The language and style of the book will make some people re-read the same paragraph over and over. Murray uses archaic words and phrases that will make it tough to digest in the first reading. Overall, I would recommend this book. Though there are some issues I take with Murray it is much better than a lot of the postmodern, postliberal, and neo-orthodox ethics books that are being published in recent years.
