It's now part of literary legend that J.K. Rowling wrote the final chapter of the final book of her beloved Harry Potter series well before she wrote even half the novels.  She knew how the story was going to end, and she said that allowed her to keep a tight rein on the characters, and resist the temptation to let the series spin out of control.

One wonders how Patrick O'Brian was able to keep his beloved characters, "Lucky Jack" Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin, under such control over a series almost three times as long as Rowling's.  "The Mauritius Command" is the fourth book in this amazing series, and O'Brian shows a deft command over both his subject matter and his characters.  Often, by the fourth book in a series, the characters start to grow dull.  Not only does the reader get the sense of retrodding the same ground, the author has to somehow overcome the sense that his characters are invincible.

O'Brian avoids both of these pratfalls with apparent ease.  "Lucky Jack" may be lucky at sea, but he finds new and innovative ways of getting in trouble on land.  Now, not only is he ashore with no ship and on half-pay, he must contend with his recently destitute mother-in-law and a brace of twins - girls, no less.  Dr. Maturin arrives with the promise of a command and a daring mission - to take two French-controlled islands off Madagascar.  Soon Aubrey is at the helm of a ship, but in addition to his usual cares and concerns, he must now cope with being a Commodore, commander over several ships, including several whose captains carry several tragic flaws.  These various scenarios allow Aubrey to experience fresh troubles with which he has no actual experience, and wonder whether his old tactics will see him through.

Dr. Maturin continues to grow as a character, as well as in practical significance to the storyline.  In "Master and Commander," he was basically a bystander, an observer of the naval action around him.  Now, his role as an intelligence man (read, spy) becomes more important as he plays a vital role in helping the British governor assume his station . . . including playing a game of propaganda warfare against the French.  Maturin also gets a few chances to practice his amazing surgical skills, breaks a few bones, and is confronted with his "dedication" to opium.

Not quite as funny as previous books (no drunken sloths to be seen), but with a little more action, "The Mauritius Command" is a defining book in this series.  Even though this book, according to some, can be read out of sequence, I disagree since Aubrey's (temporary) promotion to Commodore falls in line with the other books. 
