Bought this book because many authors I like were represented, and now I'm ready to check out books by a few I didn't know, like L.A. Banks. Her story was a great beginning to the collection--she sure knows how to "keep it real" and mix in the supernatural at the same time. Loved the dialog and her characterizations of the families and friends!

Hadn't read anything by Esther Freisner for a while, and her story here reminded me of all the reasons I enjoyed her earlier novels. Same with P.N. Elrod--loved this story, even though I've never been an Elvis fan. 
Once again, Jim Butcher, Charlaine Harris and Rachel Caine proved they can do no wrong, and Susan Krinard proved she can write something that I enjoy, which was not the case with her 2 novels. I would be interested to to read more about the likeable characters in this story. Lori Handeland's story was good--I'm not familiar with her fictional world, but this didn't stop me from enjoying the story. Maybe I'll try one of her novels.

IMO, best story was Rachel Caine's "Dead Man's Chest"--it ended too soon, but what a great ending!

Worst story was Sherrilyn Kenyon's "A Hard Day's Night-Searcher"--the reason my rating was only 4 stars. Nothing about this cheesy, simplistic story worked for me, and I will not be reading any of her novels. I know she has a great many fans--most of the negative reviews of this book were written by them--so I will not go into detail here about all the reasons I disliked her story lest I upset them any further. I would suggest that if P.N. Elrod plans a sequel to this anthology (and I hope she does), stories from Kim Harrison, Kelley Anderson, Lililth Saintcrow, Kat Richardson or Elaine Cunningham would please more readers than would another story from Kenyon, and Kenyon's fans would not have to be distressed by reading stories they don't like just because they weren't written by Kenyon.

I'm glad I bought this book--99% of the stories made me at least smile, or laugh out loud--and it helps to keep me going until Butcher's, Caine's and Harris' new books are finally released
