I really sympathize with Michael Gurian.  I felt much the same way about the failures of the industrialized education system in the 1950s that he described a couple of decades later.  It's set up to fail boys, and has gotten worse over the past several decades as men teachers have been driven out.  

The authors begin by describing the crisis in education of boys.  In chapter 2 they tell us that the problems of boys in today's schools are the result of brain differences.  Boys' brains are biologically and functionally different than those of girls.  Since you can't change the brains of boys, the schools have to be changed to work with the brains of boys in order to teach boys.  Good, I observed, the schools should focus on who their students are and orient their instruction of boys based on the minds and needs of boys. Unfortunately, the whole rest of the book seems to be focused on finding ways to better teach boys to be more like girls, using girls as the standards in education. 

I was quite put off by the constant inclusion of girls in the book.  If I read a book about girls I don't find boys talked about and praised on every page.  Yet, these authors seem to feel that the average reader is female and wants to read about girls more than about boys even in a book about boys.  One universal message repeated over and over is some variation of "girls are good," or "girls are better than boys at this."  First mention of any physiological brain advantage of boys is on page 147.  Until then it's all "girl's brains are better at this, girls are better at that.  Boys can't do this or that as well."  On page 147 they mention the greater much greater amount of white matter of male brains, a great advantage in logical thought, but avoid directly saying that boys and men are actually better at anything.  One of the huge problems boys face in education today is the constant repetition of praise for girls and women while belittling achievements of boys and men, and it's continued in this book. It is possible to say something good about boys without reciting "girls too are good" or "girls are better" every time. The Gurian institute needs to learn how to change their own publications to male positive statements to and about boys before they are qualified to teach the teachers.

The data throughout the book often contradicts their recitation of misandrist dogma.  For example, they repeat the old saw, "Boys...are structured to learn with less multitasking than girls, and boys tend to do better when focusing for long periods on one task..." (p-50)  Yet, throughout the book they describe how boys need to move around and do physical activity WHILE reading or learning, but girls don't.  It appears that tossing a baseball while reading is not "multitasking" because it doesn't praise girls at boys expense. Once again the lie is in the definitions.  "Multitasking" is usually defined as "what girls do," so boys/men "aren't as good at multitasking."  Several times in several ways the authors describe how boys not only do multitasking, but actually can't learn very well if they aren't doing physical and mental activity at the same time.  This data is ignored in order to preserve the old dogma and affirm the prejudices of their female dominated teacher audience.  The other stuff that boys need to do while learning is not "multitasking" by definition, the usual dogma.  

The authors use numerous highlighted and bulleted "Did you Know" setoffs to included specific information.  In the longest one, which goes on for 4 pages, is on the topic of "The Male Brain." Boys and men are mentioned 29 times, counting the grandfather fishing story, while girls and women are mentioned 24 times.  Out of 10 bulleted points, one bullet talks about girls exclusively, but none talks about boys without mentioning girls. Some version of "girls are better" is described in 8 of the 10 bullets. Do I really need to read so much about girls and women to understand "The Male Brain"? 

They suggest changing grading standards somewhat, but still say that an "A" paper should be based on how girls write, with lots of descriptive words and fluff.  Boy write more succinctly and often get right to the point, and then stop writing, a failing paper by feminized grading standards. The author suggests that "good" writing can be determined by counting the number of words, or by counting the number of words describing feelings.   

There is some good stuff:  Schools are industrial factories with conveyor like production.  Boys need to move while reading because it prevents brains from dropping into rest phase.  Boys need to read relevant material, for example a reading class could use a book on motorcycle repair instead of a book on romance.  Teach material with a lot of visual and spatial references, such as classic science fiction stories.  Don't force boys to read books with boring, to a boy, focus on relationships or romance.  Stop trying to make boys sit quietly in school, because boys need to be multitasking in order to listen or learn effectively.  

I find the constant pandering to the female dominated educational system offensive.  I wanted to read about boys, and not be constantly reading praise for girls.  I understand the authors needs to be able to reach the huge majority of feminist women who dominate education systems, but I still find it offensive to men.  I would not find such praise of boys and belittling of girls in a book about girl psychology and educational needs.  I guess it's reality, education now is dominated by females and educational change for boys has to reach them.  It's a book with a lot of good information and some good recommendations for improving the education of boys if you can stomach all the "girls are better" inclusions.  
