   I have been reading Kenner for over 37 years (I'm 55). I have learned so much from him about how to read literature (not just his favorite modernist writers). His analysis/presentation in Ulysses, is easy to follow and understand (although it rewards, nay demands, close, readings. It is a guide book of the highest order and, like all things Kenner wrote, is entertaining in its own right. 

It will help all readers, especially those new to Joyce and his daunting  novel. The reviewer who said it wasn't for the beginners fails to undersand that to read a difficult fiction, sometimes you have to wrestle with seemingly difficult interpretations and approaches to  the difficult literature--not that kenner's prose is opaque or difficult (nor is it burdened  with obstructionist theories--his difficulty is not in the same pale with the deconstructing satan or  post-modernism, but his keys to the kingdom of Ulysses does require more than one reading to fully absorb and use (it is full of exciting insights but it's main purpose is pragmatic: to help the reader read and understand this wonderful, yet complex, never-to-be exhausted book).Joyce's novel enriches the reader the more times he reads it. Though Joyce's Ulysses offers varied and many gems, Kenner does not believe in the reader pouring his own interpretation and biases etc. into the novel. We need some knowledge and background to read Ulysses, but Joyce creates the meaning. Our task is to understand. Kenner is our teacher.  

When reading his Kenner's Ulysses. Kenner makes you aware of the many wonders of Joyce's novel, while making sure you understand that there are countless other details and wonders to explore and to enjoy on your own 

He equips  the reader of Ulysses to adventure with confidence into this wild, comic love-fest of Dublin, the imagination, and the dark and light beauties of life. Kenner prepares/conditions the reader not to read to see Kenner's insights,  but to take the pathway of discovery and imaginative (and spiritual) enlargement on the reader's own. I highly recommend  his other two books on Joyce, his book on Eliot, and, of course, The Pound Era, perhaps the finest sustained work of literary criticism every written. Please also recognize the connection between Ulysses and Mahler's symphonies. 

 
