I have recently started listening/collecting the Little House series on CD. This one, so far, has been my favorite. After finishing it the first time, I had no qualms about immediately plugging in CD 1 again! 

The book begins with Pa asking Laura, "How would ya like to work in town?" and thus begins Laura's career as an assistant shirt-maker. It is hard work for one who hates to sit still, but the money she is making for Mary's college education keeps her going. Eventually, the work ends and life goes on in a leisurely way that summer. They celebrate the Fourth of July, and Laura vows to one day ride behind Almanzo Wilder's Morgan horses. I especially loved how Cherry Jones read the Declaration of Independence. 

Mary does get to go to college in this book, and Miss Wilder comes to teach school. On the first day of school, who should show up but Nellie Olsen! Of course, that always makes the story interesting. It doesn't take long for the reader to find out that Miss Wilder is totally ineffectual at keeping order in the schoolroom. However, she seems to find pleasure at punishing Laura and Carrie (the ONLY students she EVER reprimands in any way) for things totally inconsequential. The children soon find great pleasure in irritating and mocking "Lazy, Lousy Lizzy Jane". One thing that Nellie Olsen brings "from the east" (or so she says) is the exchanging of name cards. Pa realizes how much Laura would like to have these, and so gives her the money to buy them. On the day that she picks them up, who should offer her a ride back to school but Almanzo Wilder and his team of Morgan horses! She tells him of her reason for going to the newspaper office, and he, in turn, shows her his name card. Not knowing what to do with it exactly, Laura asks him if he wants his card back. He says no, so she feels obligated to give him one of hers (after all, Nellie said that you must EXCHANGE them). I thought that part was very sweet. 

Eventually, Laura feels life settling into a rut. As the rest of the townspeople were feeling the same way, they set out to form a "literary society". Basically, everyone gets together every Friday night for some form of entertainment or another. The first night is a spelling bee, with everyone in town participating. Each literary just got better and better, and soon everyone was buzzing with excitement over them. This starts other exciting things happening, such as a New England Supper given on Thanksgiving night and a birthday party for one of the boys at school. Life continues on in a merry way, and the revival meetings came. Laura and her family attended faithfully every night, for "those who don't go to revival are ATHEISTS" (or so declars Nellie Olsen). It is at this time that Laura has the unexpected pleasure of Almanzo Wilder asking her every night "May I see ya home?" 

At the end of the school year, Laura gives a fine recitation of the history of the US. It happens that a man looking for a schoolteacher for his town is there. The next day, he arrives unexpectedly to ask Laura to be their teacher! She takes the examination and receives her teaching certificate. This is what she has been waiting and working for so long in order to help pay for Mary's college education. 

It is here that the book ends. I can't wait for the next one to come out. How will she do teaching at her first school? Will Almanzo Wilder continue to pursue her, or will the distance be too much?
