There are easy books that discuss critical literary theory and there are dense ones.  A HANDBOOK OF CRITICAL APPROACHES TO LITERATURE falls under the 'easy' category.  A barometer for distinguishing the two can often be found in how often the author uses the terms 'dialectic' and 'mythopoetic' within the same sentence. Fortunately for the novice, authors Guerin, Labor, Morgan, Reesman and Willingham have written a text clearly designed for those who will be taking their first undergraduate course in literary theory. This text was originally written in 1966, when twentieth century critical theory was more or less limited to what the authors call the 'traditional' approaches, which then encompassed the New Criticism (only the text itself counted--no biographical or autobiographical material was deemed relevant), the Freudian/Psychoanalytic (the dim recesses of the author's psyche and personality were indelibly rooted in the work), the Mythical/Archetypal (enduring images or 'archetypes' transcended all cultures to emerge in all works), and Feminist (gender emasculation and castration were unconsciously infused into any work written by a male).

The explanations given to these discrete variations are well explained and bedrock.  For the literary novice who wishes to know a feminist interpretation of say, Marvel's "To His Coy Mistress," this novice could do worse than to study the two pages given to this poem.  The problem with this text is that it gives scant attention to recent approaches.  The authors lump together in one chapter called "Additional Approaches" the following: Aristotelian Criticism, Genre Criticism, Marxist Criticism, Structuralism, Postructuralism, Deconstruction, Phenomenological Criticism, and Reader-Response Criticism.  What I got from this chapter was a sort of Monarch Notes version, which, considering the level of difficulty involved in each, is not necessarily a bad thing. On the whole, Guerin et al have written and updated a valuable first text on critical theory that invites the reader to pursue the sort of inquiry that is required on the graduate level. Recommended
