First of all, if you really need to see the story about as completely as you can understand in your concrete world:

This is the story of a brilliant man laying down, going to sleep, entering the universal common consciousness, and then beginning to wake up again. To know this book, learn to sleep. GO to bed when the sun goes down. Turn off the Television and the ipod when you sleep and maybe after 25 years you might get to realize this as well.

If you must follow some traditional narrative thread, get the Skeleton Key to Finnegan's Wake and you will get some idea as to what is going on, but miss three quarters of the fun. It'd be like reading the script of Star Wars to see what happened in that movie (only Finnegans is a much better script). Joseph Campbell has done us literal literate readers, who have learned to see no more than what is in front of our eyes in a simple logical progression, a great service in spelling out, read his lips, exactly what is going on at all times.

But what is going on is that vast consciousness we may enter when we enter deepest sleep, beyond words, where everything interconnects.

Several other commentaries are as useful and more interesting. THe Skeleton Key, as is implied, lays out the bare bones of the narrative part by part. Others explore different motifs, such as heraldry or children's stories, or other languages, etc. 

You can find commentaries such as Joyce and the Jews which traces a Talmudic structure throughout the Wake and a Hebraic origin to its use of each letter as signifier, including the Cabalistic curious numerical value of ALP, the female essence of the dreamland. You can find other commentaries which discover Sherlock Holmes lurking beyond each passageway.

Each element in Finnegans Wake is not random, but intentional, a tribute to the genius and all-inclusive learning of Mr. Joyce. Like the great cathedrals of Europe, at Chartres, etc., it is far beyond our dumbed-down televised understanding. Just as it is now impossible for us to rebuild the Cathedral at Chartres (the rose window alone could never be reconstructed) so do we find the construction of Finnegans incomprehensible without every aid available. 

We find our exiled selves now so unfortunately devolved literally as to be no longer capable of comprehension, but only dismissal. It makes our heads hurt to think, to laugh, to expand. 

Finnegans is a great mountain beyond our vision, beyond the clouds, too wide and too tall to see, but one we do well to climb attentively, to broaden our own perceptions, our horizons, our fitness, our minds, our souls.

Get it. Get the commentaries, beginning with Joseph Campbell, but soon you will see his own limitations and struggle to go beyond him. His Skeleton Key is like the Finnegans Wake for Dummies series. Go beyond your own limitations, farther than you thought possible, and be proud of each one of your tiptoed small achievements in reading this book, pursuing every avenue of investigation. Read it. Sleep on it. Read some more. Until you too begin to awaken.
