The human mind is one of the most complex things ever studied. Even more puzzling than the study of creation has been the studies of destruction, most notably in the subject of murder. The Murderer Next Door (as created by David Buss) showcases the inner workings of murder, not just how the killings took place, but the psychological intentions behind the attack, through an evolutionary perspective. Evolutionary psychology, as being the belief that human characteristics are not grown through life, but a part of who we are from the very beginning. 

A lot of people have gotten a mixed message from this book, and I would like to clear this fog away. Many people after reading Murderer Next Door have assumed that David was trying to create an excuse for the acts of murderer. Contrary to this belief, David said that he was often shocked at the implications of his research, for much of his discoveries went against his original beliefs. His original ideas of murderers were crazy and insane people. People, who had hard growing up years and through hardships, fostered a hope for revenge against the ones who deprived them of the wishes they had wished to fulfill. However, these kinds of murderers mentioned are among the last discussed in the book! Most of Murderer Next door, focuses instead on common people and their drives to murder. The first time reader of this book, may not assume that housewives with children and a husband, would be driven to infanticide. But the book proves that although many mothers are happy with the children they receive, a surprisingly equal number had other plans that child care (as proven by acts of rape) many of which are crushed by the new responsibility of rearing young. Other acts of murder are proven in more obvious situations like with competitions between males for a female, where men turn violent upon discovering their mates being spotted with potential others, who may steal the sexual pleasure the man receives and the wife he wished to obtain. This situation, far from being a new circumstance, is shown to have happened countless times throughout human history.

When you ask me the aspect that helps this novel stand out, more than any other , I will continuously refer you to the evolutionary psychology references, because they are so integral to how David showcases the inner workings behind murder.

Someone could say from the average perspective that recent infamous killers like Charles Manson are killers because they have warped viewed and are best to be labeled as insane. Though murderers like Charles Manson are often of the crazy form (as evolutionary psychology does not justify acts, but prove the truth behind the advancement of such acts) the motives  they show for murder are often similar to murders intentions thousands of years ago. For example, if we look at the Dani tribe in New Guinea (who are mentioned in chapter 8), the man without valor is the on who is not destroyed another. Not only does the lack of drive to kill in the Dani tribe, decrease the status of a tribe member, but denies them direct privileges like access to sexual mates and properties. The same qualities that we dismiss of immoral and unjustified in our country, become the essence of living in others.

I do not promote murder, and neither does the author of this book. But once you read it, you will discover that many qualities that we judge to only certain people, are proven linked to all of us, even the aspect to kill and to control it, we must know its psychological implications, as well as the action itself.

Written by Simon
