After reading a few of these reviews I got the overwhelming impression that people hadn't tried hard enough to see this book in the context of the time it was written, much as perhaps people today might read Catcher in the Rye and see it as perhaps tame compared to reading it when it was written.

Lily Bart was a true victim of the society of her times. Watch or read Age of Innocence and see how society can trap someone and manipulate them without the victim realising until they are beyond their depth and struggling.

Ok, so Lily Bart was greedy, much in the same way a lot of people are greedy when they long for something and then suddenly find they have the means to have it. How many of us on payday think Hey I can get that outfit I've been longing for, or that surround sound system even though a part of you is shouting something about the end of the month when your salary will have run out because you did go out and buy something just for that moment of pleasure ? Lily loved that moment of getting something she knew she shouldn't really have, and that double-edge made it even more attractive to have.

You have to remember that by the time Lily found that her family had lost it's money she was already of an age where she had spent so long thinking she was going to get it all that she found it hard to relinquish. She turned down early marriage proposals with impetuosity of youth, not wanting to be tied down too early and being too young to realise that there might be a day when it would be too late and that she would regret her rashness. She then finds herself at an age where she is on the edge of being too late to save herself and being on the edge makes her swing from one side to the other: to climb to safe harbour but have no happiness or to feel like she was living a true life and keep swimming in the hope something more worthwhile will come along.


Lawrence Selden becomes in a sense her saviour whilst also crucifying Lily unwittingly. Having himself had an affair with a married acquaintance of Lily's she discovers over an illicit meeting with him how she is really viewed and this sets about a chain of events that eventually overtake her. Every time she feels the danger of bending to the will of High Society she recalls Selden's view point and strives to maintain the moral ground she feels she wants him to bear witness to. She falls off the wagon a few times but Selden always seems to come along and she tries again. 

It is very frustrating seeing how Lily and Selden dance around each other through so many misunderstandings, brought about either by themselves or by other people. Watching Lily's fall you see it coming before she does and are forced to watch helplessly as it happens and keeps happening. 

Lily is guilty only of wanting the same pleasures others less worthy have without appreciating. She has to have new dresses as part of the charade she is forced to maintain to stay in the game. She buys more than she should because she just can't believe that life won't save her in some way after all her hard work.

Lily tries to help others and is constantly trying to live up to the expectations of others whilst also fighting to have some form of life, she just can't decide what it is she would prefer to have and knowing it has such a huge importance she takes too long about deciding.

I feel in the end, in the vein of other of Wharton's novels, that   the main character chooses the moral ground whilst having to sacrifice happiness, she doesn't choose to sacrifice happiness, that is just a consequence. She is only a short distance away from happiness but never knows it and through no fault of her own deprives herself of it forever. This is a tragic and beautiful book, definitely worth reading although many will feel as I do on the last pages, if only they had been there a day earlier but then this is Wharton's story and she knew where her character's had to go
