I will freely admit that I like the way James Rollins writes.  His adventure/suspense stories are all told at a high pitch of action.  All of his tales have some thin veneer of fact behind them -- just enough to lend them at least a touch of believability.  While his main characters and villains are type cast, they really do have some depth.  So you can usually count on a Rollins tale to keep up your interest, even if you do tend to forget it an hour after the last page.  Map of Bones is no exception.

A cathedral in Cologne shelters the bones of the Magi and, in the middle of a service, and invading force kills all the congregants but one and make off with the bones, spurning a fortune in reliquaries and church paraphernalia.  The questions of why the overwhelming cruelty of the attack and why the bones were so important are left unanswered, puzzles for the Vatican, Rome's Carabinieri, and the elite, secret U.S. SIGMA Force to solve.  The SIGMA Force specializes in operations that involve both high technology and controlled violence, and it isn't long before they begin to clues out of the dusty remains left behind.

The plot is vast, involving a secret organization known as the Dragon Court.  This secret organization has roots even deeper than the Illuminati, entwined in governments, criminal organizations, and even the Church itself.  They believe themselves a super-race that owes us less superior types nothing.  Their goal is complete world domination.  And if they master the secrets behind the Magi's bones nothing will stand in their way.  Prepare for an intricate plot of deadly moves and unexpected counters.

As you can tell, this is yet another variation on the 'secret society' story that has been used in novel after novel since Dan Brown made his first million.  The mix of science, history, and Vatican trivia make this a better novel than many other stories that simply follow the pattern without making the effort to develop a real novel.  Rollins makes the reading enjoyable as he develops his crisscross plot.  If you like suspense and melodrama look no further
