I first heard about the Cabanatuan raid about 25 years ago, while studying guerrilla operations and special forces employed in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War Two.  My studies were superficial because there wasn't much information out there for the casual historian.  Then last year the movie, "the Great Raid," hit the screen, and I found books on this daring mission.  Breuer's book has a 1994 copyright date; I wish I had found it earlier.

There were previous POW rescue missions in World War Two, but this was the most successful. There was a raid by Patton's forces in Germany.  The Son Tay raid during 1970 came up empty-handed due to poor intel and an ossified decision cycle. The rescue of Jessica Lynch almost three years ago has been alternately criticized and lionized, but the Cabanatuan Raid was the pattern for all subsequent raids.  At Cabanatuan, aviation and irregulars were cobbled together at the last minute and achieved amazing success at small cost.  The commanders anticipated several hundred dead POWs and Rangers.

It was a debt of honor--something that is hard to explain to those without honor.  The US Army had been abandoned in the Philippines just a few days after Pearl Harbor.  This Roosevelt Administration decision was not an easy one--but Europe First and the destruction of the US Navy doomed MacArthur's forces in the Phillipines.  There was no aid to send them.  Australia nearly fell, too, during those dark days in early 1942.  For strategic reasons, the garrison on Corregidor and Bataan were encouraged to fight the Japanese as long as possible in a hopeless battle--and President Roosevelt decided that the lie, "help is on the way," was the best way to achieve that longer fight.  The US Army in the Phillipines was America's best at the time, with the best equipment and most ammunition and biggest supply stockpiles...they were not adequate for a sustained campaign, but only wartime experience would prove that.  America had no respect for the Japanese fighting man--an error that cost too much.

Japan was unprepared for that amount of prisoners.  Japan could barely feed its own soldiers.  There was a cultural difference as well--for Japan, surrender was disgrace.  What could Japan do with all of these "able-bodied captives?"  William Breuer sets the stage for the Great Cabanatuan Raid by beginning with a brief description of the Japanese conquest (which was behind Tokyo's unrealistic expectations--those American and Filippino soldiers did their duty to the limits of their capabilities) and then paints a picture of Hell on Earth.  

The book begins during the raid, with 107 Rangers under Lieutenant Colonel Henry A. Mucci in a village just one and a half miled from the objective--511 POWs in captivity at Cabanatuan prisoner-of-war camp.  6th Ranger Battalion was unique in that it had been raised from a regular unit, the 93rd Field Artillery Battalion, and wasn't trained by the British.  Instead, this gang of mule skinners shook out the unfit and took in some replacements--and saw a little action during the initial re-invasion of the Philippines.  Until the Cabanatuan mission, 6th Ranger Battalion served as guards at invasion force HQ and as a reserve.  

One hero I met through the pages of "The Great Raid on Cabanatuan" was Filippino guerrilla captain Juan Pajota.  I cannot say that any single element of the rescue force was more important than the rest--everybody was important--but Captain Pajota's contributions were many: up-to-date intelligence, local contacts, providing ox-cart transportation for the physically-wasted POW's, providing one of two company-sized irregular units used as a blocking force, and recommending that the Army Air Force send an airplane to fly overhead as a distraction.  

Regular US Army didn't interface well with guerrilla forces even as late as the Vietnam War.  That's one reason that special forces such as Ranger units were needed in World War Two.  The Alamo Scouts were a dedicated recon unit that ranged behing Japanese lines in small bands (2, 3, or 4 men) and snooped around.

Most amazing for modern special operations soldiers is how short the mission planning and preparation for Cabanatuan was.  Surprise and speed were everything.  The "dead line" was just that--Japan had several reasons to kill POWs in Japanese hands: revenge for losing the war, silencing war crime witnesses, and depriving the United Nations of the future use of these captive soldiers.  The Cabanatuan raid was a complex operation, but its execution was virtually flawless. The Japanese didn't expect Americans to do the Japanese thing and infiltrate undetected through 30 miles, then strike with ruthlessness and precision.  What's more, the rescue forces, including non-combatant support, seem to have been outnumbered by more than 10 to 1, and the Japanese had all the heavy firepower--tanks, planes, artillery and mortars...

This book reads like an adventure thriller, but the incident is true.  Given the hardware and military art at the time, it was a miracle.
