It is a technical term "non-expert audience."  The editorial description of this book says that such is its target audience.  A non-expert audience means that the intended reader does not have much -- perhaps next-to-no knowledge of the subject matter; HOWEVER, that same intended reader is used to going into depth and has similar or at least somewhat close level of expertise in some totally different area to what the author possesses about his/her subject.  In short, one could say a "non-expert audience" reader is one who is very well educated, not afraid of depth and details, can concentrate well, but just so happens to know nothing of the subject matter he/she is about to read.  Scientific American articles of the 70's and 80's are superb examples of writing to the "non-expert audience".

That being said, are you one who likes or hates concentrated reading?  That can have a bearing on whether you should get this book.

However, if you are searching for a big compendium of facts -- in tables in many cases, this book would serve that one purpose admirably.

Do you want to know details of how Voyager accomplished what it did?  Be careful what you wish for:  this book has much on that topic.  (But so does Burgess' book on Neptune.)

The book has much about Voyager's experiences and results at Jupiter.  A very nice bonus.  Jupiter is not at all covered skimpily.  In fact, the book's title is nearly inaccurate as perhaps 40% of the book is about Jupiter and it's moons.

For the scientific methodology / teamwork interested person there is plenty of that.  What I found intriguing was how they discovered that a cause of blur in Neptune pictures was the starting and stopping of the digital tape recorder reels (needed due to low bit-rate required of the faint [how faint: seeing a penlight flashlight on Earth while standing on the moon!] signal from as far away as Neptune).  The tape recorder reel starting and braking would torque the Voyager spacecraft!  (A command was sent to fire thruster a few milliseconds every time recorder would start or stop.)

If all you want is pictures, there are good ones, but better you get Burgess' book -- or Seymour Simon's children series -- or Asimov's series if all you want are pictures.

For this book, you have to enjoy either lots of details -- content details and/or methodology details -- or having tabulations of facts (such as for all the Jupiter and Neptune moons).  If neither of these appeals to you but you want more than a childrens book, get the Burgess book "Far Encounter". 
