

In Michael Mello's excellent book "Dead Wrong: A Death Row Lawyer Speaks Out Against Capital Punishment", Mr. Mello and I have a substantial difference of experience and opinion. 

From page 195 of the hardcover version of the book: "On paper, neither Olive nor Holdman ran CCR; that title belonged to Larry Helm Spalding. With the warrants and the infighting on all fronts, it has suddenly become chic to ridicule Spalding.... I believe that Spalding did some good at CCR. But none of the good can ever come close to compensating for Spalding's fatal decision in the late 1980s, to fire Scharlette Holdman, knowing that Mark Olive would be forced to resign in protest." 

Having worked as an investigator at CCR during this very time period whereas Mr. Mello was in Vermont teaching at a law school in late 1987 and early 1988, in my considered opinion, Ms. Holdman was out of control, e.g. she was then an abusive alcoholic; at work she threw a typewriter at a door; she refused to come to work as a form of protest ("strikes" or similar actions by state employees in Florida are prohibited by the Florida Constitution); tampered with evidence; and misrepresented her academic record. 

Mr. Spalding was willing to even pay her salary since Ms. Holdman is indeed an asset nevertheless and have her work in New York with Dick Burr -- however even Dick Burr with the Legal Defense Fund knew enough about the dark side of Ms. Holdman that he didn't want her working in the same space as himself. 

Mr. Spalding had no choice but to terminate Scharlette Holdman. She gave him no other choice. She had committed numerous dismissable offenses over the years at CCR. 

Ms. Holdman made her situation a national battle by bringing in all the "big guns" in the anti-death penalty community across the country to pressure Mr. Spalding into either allowing Ms. Holdman to continue as she was conducting herself and to pressure Mr. Spalding to resign or otherwise be forced out of office. 

And Mr. Olive, whom I admire as one of the best litigators in America for death sentenced persons, was playing the same hard-ball tactics as Ms. Holdman -- thus his threat to resign should Ms. Holdman be terminated from employment. Mr. Olive chose to resign in an attempt to cripple the agency. However her termination and his resignation did just the opposite. 

Mr. Spalding did the right thing given the totality of the circumstances. In fact, the office functioned better with more effective representation. It is highly ironic that Mr. Mello does not mention even one time the name of Mr. Olive's successor as Chief Litigator, Billy Horatio Nolas, who is just as competent and effective as Mr. Olive. In fact, Mr. Nolas and his legal and investigative team had more successes with stays of execution, winning new sentencing hearings, winning new trials, etc.



