After the previous couple of Kurt Austin books I prepared myself for mediocrity. They had been standard fair of evil megalomanic corporations with goofy backgrounds and straightforward plots. This book was like a breath of fresh air!

The book starts strong with a historical chapter about a pilot  wearing an exotic mask and holding a strongbox is shot from the sky while chanting "if I fail, millions will die." Then we are introduced to a bizarre scene where demonic beasts with glowing red eyes kill and devour a reality TV show cast and crew. Finally Kurt and beautiful scientist Skye are researching old trade routes.

The twisting plots seem to have no relevance to each other, especially as Gorgonweed is introduced, a mutant algae that is threatening the worlds oceans.

But as the pilot and his mask is discovered in the bottom of a glacier, Kurt and Skye are called in to action. The pace picks up and Kurt is called on to perform daring rescues. Things begin to twist further and further as the secret of the mask is slowly revealed while Kurt visits the Fouchard family and gains a glimpse of what is really going on. Kurt is taxed like the old Pitt adventures by being given almost insurmountable odds and has to think of a way to survive. Sometimes this seems to be taken to the extreme as he blunders into situations without any common sense or even half-hearted preparations, but that makes the amazing ways he finds to save himself and others that much more fun to read.

I found the pacing very fast, its an easy book to listen to and understand. The characters and situations were interesting and it was gratifying that the scientists didn't solve all problems in 10 minutes. What was frustrating was the stupidity of the characters, it was as if they had no common sense and acted primarily so they could get caught and set up a daring Austin rescue.

The ending between Kurt and the Fouchards was not very gratifying, without giving away the plot or ending, I will say that Kurt essentially only survived by luck and not his wits  - something thats frustrating for the reader.

Still, the science is very believable, the plot went in a completely different direction than expected, even half-way through the book I was expecting the contents of the strongbox to be radically different than they were, I was expecting the mask to be completely different than it was and I was expecting the ultimate goal of the Fouchards to be completely different than it was...so it was nice to be surprised as events unfolded.

The audio adaptation was well executed with the narrator doing a good job with voices, accents and urgency when it was required.

I recommend this book if you have any interest in the Dirk Pitt, Kurt Austin or adventure books. Its fun, fast, has a plausible scientific basis and lots of action..what more can you ask for
