Bentley Little made a big splash early in his career, winning the 1990 Bram Stoker Award for First Novel for The Revelation, and receiving another Stoker  nomination for Best Novel for 1993's The Summoning.  Over the last decade or so, he's averaged a book a year, producing novels with titles like The House, The Town, The Association and The Policy, and a collection named (surprise!) The Collection.  During that time, readers have come to expect certain things from Little's work, including a focus on modern social issues, quiet horror that somehow feels more graphic, and a black, ironic sense of humor.  Perhaps Little's strongest works, The Ignored (1997) and The Store (1998) are veritable showcases for all these qualities.

A Kafkaesque tale of the ultimate underdog, The Ignored relates the story of Bob Jones, an ordinary man who discovers that being average carries many risks.  Fresh out of college, Jones obtains a job with a software company called Automated Interface.  At first enthusiastic, Jones comes to loathe his job and his colleagues, who seem to be shunning him.  Much to his dismay, Jones finds that he's being ignored not just by his office mates, but by everyone, to the point where he has become invisible to most.  Jones eventually discovers others who share his malady, banding together with them to commit terrorist acts in an attempt to get others to notice them.  Doing so, Jones embarks on a complex voyage of self-discovery.  

A cautionary tale, The Store details one man's fight against a heartless chain store called, simply, The Store.  The Store seems to come out of nowhere to mar telecommuter Bill Davis' (like Bob Jones, he works for Automated Interface) idyllic existence.  One day, a sign appears along his daily jogging route, announcing that THE STORE IS COMING.  Several weeks later, The Store is open for business, winning over the people of Juniper, Arizona with its wide selection and low prices.  But soon, The Store reveals a darker agenda, driving local stores out of business, lowering overall employment, and insinuating itself into the daily life of the small town, to the point where its employees take over the local police force, schools, and the town council.  Dismayed over this turn of events, Bill takes the fight directly to the founder of the chain, the mysterious Newman King.  Little does he know that in confronting King, he's putting  his soul on the line.

Little has always been one to take his time in relating his tales of the macabre, allowing a strong sense of paranoia and dread to build around his protagonists, threatening their sense of well being and safety; by the time that they recognize the legitimacy of the fantastic threats they face, events have usually overtaken them.  The protagonists of The Ignored and The Store are no exceptions.  Fortunately, Little doesn't allow either of his carefully etched protagonists to wallow in self-pity---both quickly decide to fight once they realize how desperate the situation has become.  It is their struggles against formidable obstacles and seemingly implacable foes which make Little's work so arresting.       

Both novels resonate with modern audiences, delivering timely, relevant messages about individuality and conformity.  Both tales are related with plain, straightforward prose, in leisurely fashion.  Little walks a fine line in each, never revealing the origins of either horror, leaving those afflicted to wonder "Why Me?"  It is the thought that their lives can be similarly (if not as fantastically) disrupted, rather some of the more gruesome set pieces that Little creates, that lingers in the minds of Little's readers.

A keen observer of modern culture and mores, Little chooses to comment on what he sees through horror fiction.  Whether it be a vision of isolation, or weird forces taking over, his talent lies in taking even the most mundane aspects of our daily lives and twisting them a bit, forcing us to consider them anew, even if it is only at the safe distance provided by the more fantastic elements of his work.  Although the seriousness and moral purpose of the author are partially cloaked by his extreme subject matter, they shine through regardless, providing a dark mirror where readers can safely confront the more troubling facets of their day-to-day existence.  Violent, perceptive, morbid, grotesque, funny, and above all, personal, Little's novels serve as potent reminders that most of us have it pretty good.      
