The author of the End of Science returns for a full inning well-played in a crucial debate--more dialectic--with a challenge to the claims of psychological science, and weighs in as a supporter in the hues of a mysterian perspective of the unknowability of self and mind. Next stop Zen monastery, after dusting off a stack of Kantian tomes. Altlhough we may not have reached the end of science, it may prove a thorny path to reach the beginnings of science, here, if what is wanted is a full roadmap for the mind of man whose perennial question is the riddle of the sphinx. To know the self to be unknowable would itself be the first foundation of any science. And it is true that a host of advances in the cognitive sciences tempt one to think that the science of mind is just around the corner. Even the sufis made such claims, so we should be tolerant, and not be like Queequeg to craft a coffin from false prophecy. This critique is important as a counter to the dogmatic assumption of much science promotion that its methods must succeed where a look at history shows a record of failures, stretching back to the nineteenth century and before. Nonetheless the mysterian position can declare defeat just at the point of success, and be both wrong to think we have reached the limits of our knowledge, and right to point to the real secret of mind, which lies not in its mechanics, but its conscious use that alone might unlock its deeper mysteries. One tends to root for both sides here, and Horgan's argument is important even as one keeps an eye on the next inevitable sneak attack on the fortress of man's interior. One might read this along with Kurzweill's The Age of Spiritual Machines with its fascinating if breathtakingly foolish-wise attempt to map out the dawn of the great computer brain. One should think that is such a conscious machine were ever invented its first priority would be to meditate, for beyond consciousness lies a further self-consciousness. Perhaps the last program for this brain would be 'final shutdown' as nirvana. Strange, but man is there already. Very engaging book, and it is a tonic to see somesone shrug off the excess of round-the-corner predictions with a dose of scepticism. Meanwhile Dr. Frankenstein is in his lab, and we know he won'tbe listening. Slam down the voltage clamp, end of science or not
