The effort to explain Hitler's meteoric and improbable rise in post World War I Germany has spawned something of a cottage industry in academia and other circles.  In many ways, this first in a two-volume biography of the fascist leader is a contribution to that debate.  Biographer Ian Kershaw concedes that "explaining Hitler" isn't easy.  In the preface he uses Churchill's famous assessment of Soviet Russia to describe the Nazi leader: a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma.

Indeed, the more one reads about Hitler - his humble roots in provincial Austria, his poor academic performance and general lack of higher education, his lack of discipline and poor work habits, his complete lack of organizational acumen, his prissy behavior and eccentric, aloof personality - the more inexplicable his emergence as a national demigod in one of the most advanced cultures in the world becomes.  

Many attribute the success of the Nazis solely to the unique social and political circumstances of Weimar Germany: the humiliation of Versailles, the threat of Bolshevism from the East and internally, native and increasingly virulent anti-Semitism, and the economic hardship of reparation payments and then the affects of the Great Depression.  Kershaw cites all of these as contributing factors to the Nazis electoral gains beginning in the early 1930s, but he argues that it was Hitler - and only Hitler - that could have made the Nazi's ultimate political triumph a reality.  In the early 1920s there were nearly 100 small nationalist groups in Germany (known as the Volkisch movement) that preached roughly the same ultra-patriotic, socialist and anti-Semitic themes as the Nazis.  And there were scores of Hitler-like leaders out speaking in beerhalls promoting the cause of German national redemption and the inherent evil of Marxism and Jewry.  But there was only one Hitler.  Only he could pack the largest theaters in Germany with wild-eyed supporters.  Only he could unite the far Right in a concerted effort to topple the Weimar Republic.  Only he could convert a diverse mix of rural schoolteachers, urban professionals and Protestant clergy to his vision of a new Germany in hour-long harangues in massive public addresses that looked and felt more like religious revivals than political speeches.  Hitler benefited from the tumultuous times in which he lived and he certainly needed the patronage and support of others along the way, but Kershaw maintains that his unlikely journey to the apogee of power in Germany was no accident.  

Two points stressed by Kershaw struck me as especially interesting and quite surprising.  First, with the notable exceptions of an unusual gift for public speaking, an innate understanding of the power of propaganda and a powerful memory for facts and figures, Hitler was a man remarkably devoid of talent and, as Kershaw tells it, rather lazy and disinterested.  Second, Kershaw also stresses how little Hitler and his Nazi party actually did proactively to secure their complete dominance over the German government, military and economy.  Many of the most far-reaching changes after Hitler became Chancellor in January 1933 were undertaken on the initiative of others, while the main opposition groups just basically closed up shop.

In closing, the idea that a man with Hitler's background, limited natural abilities and radical viewpoints could rise so far, so fast is so improbable (not to mention horrifying) that it almost defies believability.  And when Hitler boldly completed the re-militarization of the Rhineland in 1936 and held a plebiscite on his rule, he received 99% endorsement.  He was probably the most genuinely popular leader in the world at the time.  Incredible.
