_The King of the World_ by traditionalist philosopher Rene Guenon is a unique work which attempts to piece together various legends regarding the King of the World living in a subterranean kingdom of Aggartha (or Agharti).  These legends were first made popular in the West by Saint Yves d'Alveydre in his _Mission de l'Inde_ in which he described his journeys in central Asia.  Later Ferdinand Ossendowski was also to mention this kingdom and the King of the World in his book _Beasts, Men and Gods_ also involving a journey to the East (and perhaps lifted from the work of d'Alveydre).  This book resulted from discussions among the French sinologist Rene Grousset, the neo-Thomist philosopher Jacques Maritain, and Rene Guenon.

The title "King of the World" refers to Manu (whose name appears in the ancient Greek king's name Minos) and is to be distinguished from the "Prince of this world" which refers to Satan in the Gospels (the two words being different in Hebrew and Arabic).  In fact, in Hebrew, the title "King of the World" may be readily applied to God Himself.  Manu may be understood as embodying the fundamental attributes of "Justice" and "Peace", which apply to the "King of the World".  This book combines traditions from the ancient world including those of the Hindus and Buddhists as well as from Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and the ancient Greeks and Celts.  Both spiritual authority and temporal power are united in the function of the "King of the World" as related through the ancient symbols of the swastika, the word AVM (or OM), and the Seal of Solomon.  The Kabbalistic notions of the Shekinah and Metatron are explained and reference is made to the work, _La Kabbale juive_ by Vulliaud.  In addition, the Celtic origins of the myth of the Grail are explained as they relate to the "King of the World" and the "four masters" of Ireland.  The priest-king Melki-Tsedek is also related to the "King of the World" as well as the mythical abode Luz where Jacob had his dream according to Scripture.  It is noted that the pope holds a position similar to that of the "King of the World" by way of spiritual power.  As in all his works, Guenon believes that the modern world exists in a state of crisis indicating the dark age, the Kali yuga.  In addition, the omphalos (or the "navel of the world") and sacred stones are explained in terms of their polar symbolism.  Also, the various spiritual centers of the world are to be understood in terms of the "King of the World" and the subterranean kingdom of Aggartha.  Finally, the works of the Catholic nun Venerable Anne Catherine Emmerich and the French traditionalist Count Joseph de Maistre are also mentioned in connection with the notion of the "King of the World".  This book contains a plethora of esoteric concepts which relate to that of the archetype of "King of the World" and is perhaps one of the few available books which fully discusses this notion along with the underground kingdom of Aggartha.           
