The famous and recognized sociologist Alvin Tofler made one of his most relevant and remarkable set of vigorous reflection around the causes and effects of the Third Wave, a complex web of relations immersed in the vertiginous world in which we live, where the Technologies of Information, the sudden drift of paradigms, repels and proposes the innovation against production in mass, through a world in constant change, immersed into a global competence that, not only has permeated the inmost corners of the mind, making us to rethink and revalue all the previous learned concepts.

This abrupt transformation has meant a total reset around our mental maps. Nothing is safe, all is susceptible to be improved; we must aware this increasing and even more challenging chain of exigencies around our environment, the way  we learn, the way we communicate, the way we apply the concepts, the way we must react around this continuous uncertainness, and finally the way the emergent economies of new competitors may visibly affect our share in the market. 

The well known set of countries immersed in the fatidic term of countries in development, don't seem to have understood the enormous challenge this represent for his primary or secondary productions methods. The agriculture and the industrialization, are not still more the key for a "better tomorrow" , the known patterns on which we usually were  accustomed to design the famous performance's indexes have to be reformulated.

Tofler makes an incisive and well detailed dissection of these new realities, challenges, and majuscule exigencies that affects and beats us in any field of the knowledge. 

But the most relevant and remarkable fact is the brutal handicap between the accustomed political way of thinking respect the new realities, that literally have left behind concepts of sovereignty, territoriality limits, emergent economies or technological self sufficiency. And the main problem resides the distance seems to enlarge through the years, generating in this way, new challenges that require immediate responses; due the way you react, and the way you don't apply effective solutions against this state of things may become the difference between to win or be defeated in the sand of your professional life, industrial positioning , status social and destiny as nation. 

An ambitious text of indispensable and obligated reading for any kind of reader. Don't think it twice!                
