        In a mystic and adventurous world of Tamora Pierce's second book in The Circle Opens quartet, Street Magic, there are magic, mages, and harsh reality. Fourteen-year-old Briar Moss, the name he created himself, was a plant mage, and he is currently in Chammur with his teacher, Rosethorn, on a sort of "working study program." While meandering through the market, he bumped into Evvy, her full name Evumeimei Dingzai, who unconsciously used her stone magic while polishing rocks. Unfortunately, Chammur is like any other place in the world; there are rich moneybags and beggars, or better known as thukdaks. Evvy was sold by her parents and escaped as a runaway slave. She was earning a living by getting a few coppers for polishing various stones. Noting her magical abilities, Briar tried to talk to her, but Evvy scurried away after he mentioned her stone magic. 
	Briar was determined to find her a suitable mage teacher, though things are never so easy. Just like the real world, there are gangs. But there is one specific gang, the Vipers, who wanted Evvy, an extremely powerful stone mage, to help them to find precious rocks and make the gang rich. To make matters worse, there was also a
takameri, the Chammuran way of saying rich female, who had nothing to occupy herself with, in the picture; she decided to invest in the Vipers so they could be the strongest gang in the city. And she wanted Evvy to be able to aid them. 
	However, Briar found it difficult to put the past behind him. Before someone had discovered that he was a mage, Briar had fought, bled, and almost died for his gang. Now, he struggled to balance his current life and his "former life as a street rat" so he can help Evvy the way someone had helped him when he first learned he was a mage.
        I simply love this book; Tamora Pierce sweeps you into another world, similar yet more interesting than the one we live in now. Street Magic is a book worth reading and "among the best in fantasy fiction." It is one of those books that you cannot put it down once you start reading. Pierce has also written several exciting prequels, the Circle of Magic quartet- Sandry's Book, Tris's Book, Daja's Book, Briar's Book- and the first book of the Circle Opens quartet- Magic Steps. In addition, she has finished two thrilling sequels of the same quartet, Cold Fire and Shatterglass. 
