Few events have divided America as the Vietnam War.  One of the most nagging questions regarding this topic is how and why America became involved in it.  David Halberstam gives us his answer in this comprehensive and well written book; "The Best and the Brightest".  The title of this book refers to the various officials in the executive branch of the US federal government that came to office with JFK, but stayed on after his death.  This group of officials played major roles in LBJ's administration, and in fits and starts, convinced the Texan to devote more and more of his efforts and the nation's blood and treasure to a little country called Vietnam.  LBJ, like Nixon after him, was perpetually haunted of the Kennedy name and legacy, and reacted by wholeheartedly following the advice of Kennedy's advisers regarding Vietnam against his own better judgement.  These advisers included Robert McNamara, McGeorge Bundy, Dean Rusk, Dean Acheson, etc...  All of them had more foreign policy experience than LBJ, and all were associated with the Kennedy name.  Yet none of them had every won elected office.  

By listening to their advice instead of his own hard-earned experience and judgement, LBJ would slowly lead America, step by step, into the Vietnam War, to the point that he did not or could not extract this nation from it.  The author, David Halberstam, was a young reporter at this time, and worked both in Vietnam and at the home front, reporting on the conflict.  His inside view, and later his connections with those higher up, allowed him to write this insightful book on the most controversial of wars.  After reading it, I got the impression that LBJ never quite had the confidence to stand on his own two feet when it came to foreign policy.  The buck is supposed to stop with him, as commander-in-chief, yet he allowed members of the Best and the Brightest, to make decisions for him.  If there is one moral to take out of this book, it is to stand up for yourself and make your own decisions.  

All in all, a great book.  I highly recommend it for any fan or student of history.
