The first thing that strikes the reader about this work is that it is difficult to qualify. Paul Johnson is a master historian, but, in Intellectuals, he puts together pages that could easily be described as biography, psychology, sociology or political science. His efforts have produced an exquisite narrative questioning, in near revolutionary fashion in light of its being penned in the eighties, whether being called an intellectual is a good thing in the least. In fact, given the examples showcased within, it often should be a term of derision. 

Overall, I was quite astounded by this book. It is comprised of twelve individual chapters addressing the life and work of twelve famous intellectuals of western civilization. Included are the likes of Karl Marx, Earnest Hemingway, Henrik Ibsen, and Lillian Hellman. Although, the best section is the final chapter, "The Flight of Reason," in which he analyzes a great many latter twentieth century intellectuals like Norman Mailer, Kenneth Tynan, and Noam Chomsky. It is a riveting synthesis, and, if I were to reread it, this would be the first chapter I'd turn to.

Numerous themes are developed. Perhaps most central is that the intellectual's public stance on moral and political issues often flagrantly contradicts with the values they practice in their own private lives. In all situations, we see this to be to the case in Intellectuals. The prophet's great love of humanity directly clashes with their despicable way of treating friends and associates. Shelley committed boggling acts of larceny and his egotistic outlook on the world vicariously caused some of his friends to be imprisoned for debt. He forgot about them before they were even locked up. Also, it seems that the truth was perpetually elusive to these men and women. Victor Gollancz stated that he was incapable of error, but appeared incapable of recognizing facts. Lillian Hellman's vanity caused her to sue Mary McCarthy for defamation, and the result of the trial was calamity for the playwright. All that came of it was the public's discovery of Hellman's dedication to deception and deceit. Time and time again, we find that these great progressive advancers of women's causes treated the women they consorted with like sexual baubles. A trail of devastation was left in their seminal wake. This was acutely true of Shelley, Rousseau, Tolstoy and Russell. Personal conflicts often, via a deluded narcissistic sense of grandeur, were foisted upon the world disguised as political opinion. 

Speaking of political opinion, one of the reviewers mentioned that Johnson singled out left-wing personalities alone for disparagement. For the most part, I disagree with this view as artists historically have been predominantly members of the left or at least they have fallen somewhere within the leftist sphere of influence. Although it must be acknowledged that Ayn Rand could have been included here. She would have been a suitable vein for a psychologizing historian to mine. Flynn's recent Intellectual Morons discusses her life at great length, and she would have fit in well within Johnson's narrative. I should further mention that the recent Flynn book was quite good, but it paled in comparison to the profundity of this one. 

Yes, these lives are repulsive, but I have to say that I believe Johnson treats them fairly. One critic asked, "where are his favorite artists?" Well, I'd say they can be found right here. As human beings, these celebrities did not excel, but, as artists, some were superlative. The narrator diligently refuses to sell them short. He compliments the artistic merits of Hemingway, Shelley, and Tolstoy. Indeed, Johnson never hedges on the matter of Shelley's unworldly poetic talent. With Hemingway, he notes that his artistic integrity was a constant in his life, and it could be negotiated under no circumstance. Johnson also makes mention that Tolstoy produced two of the greatest novels ever. With Norman Mailer, he labels his first book, The Naked and the Dead, as "outstanding." 

Outside of Roger Kimball, you just cannot find commentary so lucid and challenging in our present day. Intellectuals is a glittering, ornate classic. This book has been around for a long time, and its used copy price is very cheap. Nothing should prevent you from buying, borrowing, or downloading it
