
Don't people EVER get tired of mouthing the scripts provided by
the Cato Institute, the Heritage Foundation, Reason magazine, the
National Review, freerepublic.com, etc., etc., *ad nauseum*?

I know these right-wing anti-enviro reptiles very well. I notice
that issuing denunciations of Ehrlich and the environmental
movement has become a little quasi-intellectual cottage industry
with them. Which I guess is not surprising; there is BIG money
riding on it, after all, and the right-wing reptiles are nothing
if they are not owned by the rich. The megabuck crowd (Bradley,
Scaife, Coors, et alia) that supports Cato, Heritage, and the
hundreds of other "think tanks" and periodicals of this genre is
understandably anxious to suppress or besmirch movements and
individuals whose critiques go to capitalism's jugular, or even
just which question the sustainability of the growth mania that
made them rich.

But what Ehrlich's critics say he said, and what he actually said,
are very different things. Or to put it more bluntly, THEY LIE
ABOUT HIM, trusting that no one will actually go back and read the
book, or anything else he said in a long and illustrious career.
So far it has been a winning strategy. Everyone "knows" that
Ehrlich was wrong about everything -- whether he actually was or
not. 

This situation is very much like the gross misrepresentations of
the Club of Rome (CoR) report, another document that few ever
actually read, but that many are certain made nothing but "failed
doomsday predictions". The truth is that there were no "failed
doomsday predictions" in the CoR report. There were in fact no
predictions at all. There were a number of scenarios,
extrapolating from different sets of assumptions, and some of them
were indeed dire. But the CoR authors did not assert that the dire
scenarios would come to pass. They said, in a nutshell: IF this,
THEN that. And they gave several scenarios based on different IFs.
Furthermore, the CoR suggested that the major fireworks (if you
will) would begin most likely some time into this century,
extrapolating the most-likely trendlines; so far, things seem to
be unfolding on schedule. 

(This is not really about Ehrlich or the CoR authors or any
individual. This is about fear of having to leave the comfort
zone. When reactionaries and reptiles -- which includes, in a
measure, all of us -- encounter a scenario that suggests that our
priveleges and comfortable way of life may be threatened, they
freak out. Can't handle it. Go ballistic. And start searching for
"reasons" to reject it, revile it, denounce it.)

At any rate, roughly the same is true of Ehrlich's book and
"predictions". Ehrlich sketched-out some scenarios, and yes
(gasp!) at moments made remarks or weighted scenarios in a way
that can now be seen to have been wrong. BFD. 

Ehrlich: "The possibilities are infinite; the single course of
events that will be realized is unguessable. We can, however, look
at a few possibilities as an aid to our thinking, using a device
known as a 'scenario'. Scenarios are hypothetical sequences of
events used as an aid in thinking about the future, especially in
identifying possible decision points... these are just
possibilities, not predictions" (The Population Bomb, pg 72)

And many of his "predictions" (scenarios) were correct. For
example, that 10 million children would likely die yearly from
malnutrition throughout the 70s. That was true of the 70s... and
the 80s and 90s, as well. On balance he was more right than wrong.

Further, in 1968 (when the Population Bomb was written) the Green
Revolution was just barely getting underway. It is easy to look
back now and wonder why Ehrlich did not see just what a
spectacular success the Green Revolution would be. But at the
time, it was barely foreseeable. However, it was only a one-time
amphetamine hit for agriculture. It cannot be repeated, and indeed
it is likely that its gains will be rolled back over the next few
decades; the Green Revolution is running out of gas -- and soon
literally so. There is evidence that it might already be over:
miserable crop production and reserve figures for the last five
years. We shall see. But even Norman Borlaug, a key agronomic
research figure in the Green Revolution, and Nobel Prize winner,
has grave doubts about the sustainability of it. He has been
quoted as saying that "unless progress with agricultural yields
remains very strong, the next century will experience sheer human
misery that, on a numerical scale, will exceed the worst of
everything that has come before." Sound familiar? But of course.
That's the kind of "alarmist" comment that could have been lifted
out of some old book... such as one by Paul Ehrlich! And that's
the kind of "alarmist" comment that anyone who is not an idiot
would make, given knowledge of a few relevant facts.

To top it all off, consider for a moment Paul Ehrlich's total
scholarly accomplishment in the course of a stellar career: 37
books, 600 scholarly papers, teaching and lecturing, a MacArthur
award, a prize from the Swedish Academy of Sciences, the
Distinguished Scientist Award of the American Institute of
Biological Sciences, and on and on.  Do you think, in the course
of that prodigious production over four decades as a population
biologist, he might have... er... made a mistake? Issued a failed
prediction or three? Sketched-out a few scenarios that did not
come to pass? Merciful heavens! Call the police! Call the Cato
Institute! Call Richard Mellon Scaife! This is an outrage! These
leftist enviro-whackos are out of control!!!

Even if The Population Bomb HAD been as wrong as the liars say it
was, it would be niggling to the point of meanness to pass
judgement on Ehrlich today, in 2005, based on one book he wrote as
a young man in 1968.  But such meanness is not beneath the
reptiles of the anti-enviro right. Very little is beneath the
reptiles of the anti-enviro right, except perhaps a few inches of
toxic NOLA-style muck. Between their meanness and their lies, they
are quite an act.

Even more bizarre is the way in which the reptiles attempt to use
that one book, from 1968, as THE work which represents the
thinking of most environmentalists, or which somehow represents --
as though it had been composed as a collective manifesto -- the
entire environmental movement, even 35 years later! Or even the
entire *LEFT*! How desperate must they be if they have to rely on
a single 35-year-old work as the primary support for their rancid
calumny against Ehrlich, the environmental movement, and the left?
But here again, there is no point expecting the reptiles to
respect the truth or to cleave to intellectual honesty, or even to
abide simple principles of human decency. They revealed themselves
long ago, and only a fool would credit them with character
