Having weathered another election cycle of verbal and emotional combat between the polarized "red" and "blue" electorate, one begins to wonder if there is any common ground for constructive political debate in our contentious democracy.  In his new book, legal philosopher Ronald Dworkin answers in the affirmative.  He believes that there are certain principles on which both sides can agree.  Problems, however, arise when these principles are applied to making concrete policy decisions.

Dworkin sets forth two principles of human dignity to which all parties can agree: 1) "that each human life is intrinsically and equally valuable," and 2) "that each person has an inalienable personal responsibility for identifying and realizing value in his or her life."

These principles are highly abstract and probably most parties would disagree on their application.  The improvement in political debate here lies in the fact that debates can go back to a common starting point rather than having parties try to demonize and discredit each other as if they had mutually exclusive worldviews.

In the application of these principles to the policy on torture of enemy combatants, I found Dworkin's views recognizable because they coincide with my own.  The use of torture is clearly at odds with any principle of human dignity and should be condemned.  However, there are extreme and unique situations where torture may extract information that could save thousands of lives.  How does one balance this against human dignity? Dworkin seems to suggest that we do a cost/benefit analysis - typical of legal thinkers.  And I tend to agree.  However, it is a problematic area and remains unresolved.

On the issue of capital punishment Dworkin tries to show two sides of the argument.  Being a liberal, he is personally against capital punishment.  On the other hand, he argues that death as punishment is not at odds with human dignity.  A death penalty advocate would argue that there are issues of deterence and retribution that must be observed.  Again this opens the debate to other sets of issues.  Where does one draw the line on human dignity?

These two examples illustrate how difficult it is to achieve a substantive political debate as opposed to the disparagement and invective that we witness today.  Dworkin's principles are hard to disagree with, and he clearly illustrates the problems we get into if we deviate too far from these principles.  This book is an interesting and useful contribution to the need for civilizing our current political debate
