A quick read considering it being a play, the Crucible offers some insight into the victims and those involved in the Salem Witch Trials.

Since it was a play, Miller's style did not amaze me in anyway, but i enjoyed the play aspect in this case, since it was something different from the typical read. Instead of the common vivid descriptions or the over the head type of figurative language, Miller uses subtle detail to create the same effect, it is hard to explain just how, but each minor detail seems to add so much to the picture projected in my mind, and it really seemed as if a play was held before me. 

I could see everything--the fear in the people's eyes, the tension between  every conversation. There may not have been a lot of words, but I felt that even the single "no.. no.. " told a lot. 

Most shocking was the inhumane--yet ironically humanly--moral depictions of the characters. I was surprised with their extremely careful eye for reputation and name--to the point of setting up innocent friends and family to the sacrificial alter to calm the fearing people. So much for honestly, so much for loyalty. The people were monsters when it came to saving themselves at the cost of anybody. Though disgusted as I was with these characters, I was more a little shaken myself. Looking now to the type of society around me, I could envision another enactment of the witch trials. Yes, it was inhumane; yes, it could have been avoided. BUT, I find that many of the characters' flawed traits still exist in today's society. We see people hiding secrets, hurting others, telling lies, to save their own name. We see people dressing up with hope of impressing--or sometimes, deceiving--others. Society today still has its hand tightly gripped on reputation, and it doesn't seem as if it is letting go soon.

Rather than the typical history lesson, The Crucible is a drama that tells a lot. Love triangles, back stabbing, and affairs flood the story, and characters with every aspect revealed hold it up. The Crucible was meant to depict the mind settings and the circumstances of the people involved in the Salem Witch Trials--and it did just that.
