This is not a review of this edition as I don't have it.  But I have read LOTR, The Hobbit and the Silmarillion several times, years before the movies came out, and again afterward.

I think it's almost irrelevant to compare the books to the movies, as they are different stories.  The movies remind me of the books of course, but there are so many huge, fundamental differences, that I cannot consider them in the same light at all.  The movies amost completely lack the very spiritual core that the books are founded upon.

It's interesting to me that before the movies came out, it was almost hard to find a negative review of Tolkien's work.  Almost every adult I know personally who has read the books consider Tolkien's work to be of such high caliber that it seems doubtful that it will ever be surpassed.  "Life changing", is not too strong a phrase, if you "get it".  I suppose only those with significant literary and intellectual depth and appreciation for historical context typically earn the rewards these stunningly deep and beautiful books offer.

Now that the movies have been out a while, and many more people have attempted to read the books than otherwise would have because of their exposure to the movies and videogames, I see many reviews that seem to entirely miss the point of the books.  Perhaps it's because more people are reading them.  Perhaps it's because the very time it takes to read through the Midgewater Marshes is one of many factors that contributes to the impression of realism, and helps the reader empathize with the characters.  Perhaps some don't have the patience to appreciate the beauty of a journey for its own sake.  Perhaps the reader's intellect and imagination, that Tolkien relied on heavily to fill in gaps and speculate about the "uneplained vistas" and character development have been stifled by the spoon-feeding that movies and videogames offer.  Almost everything Tolkien DIDN'T explain was just as intentional as what he did write, becasue he understood the longing and curiosity it generates, not to explain everything explicitly.

I think I speak for most Tolkien fans by saying that the depth of detail included in his work makes the memory of the books very nearly as vivid as the memory of a real place.  Perhaps more vivid in some ways
