 Frank Miller, Sin City: Hell and Back (Dark Horse, 2001)

Hell and Back is, compared to the rest of the Sin City catalogue (compared, even, to the majority of serial graphic novels), a monster-- it weighs in at over three hundred pages. That alone should tell you, even if you've never read any of the other Sin City volumes (and you should; as of this writing, Hell and Back is the last in the series, though Miller has said in interviews he's not done with it), that you're in for something special.

If you do know Sin City, you know you're in for something special. Miller has a way with noir that makes Sin City one of the best entires in any medium in the genre. His style takes a few cues from the golden era noir films, but it pretty much stops there; after that, Sin City is Miller's own creation-- sexy full-bodied women who just can't seem to keep a stitch on, hard men with superhuman strength and inhuman faces, top-to-bottom corruption, and not a good guy to be found anywhere; even the heroes here are just bad guys who caught a break somewhere along the line.

Hell and Back introduces us to Wallace, a starving-artist type who, as all characters in Sin City are, is also something a whole lot more. Wallace meets Esther, a beautiful model/actress/whatever type, and within hours, his life has changed for the worse. He witnesses Esther being kidnapped after he's been shot with a tranquilizer dart, and he has to get her back-- he knows he has to, despite having just met her. How much more noir can you get?

The art, as always, will wow you. It's amazing how expressive Frank Miller can make black be-- it's like putting the little black dress on Jessica Alba. A splash of white here and there is all that's needed to suggest the shape of what you're looking at, and color is added every once in a while to make something really stick out. (A small section about halfway through the book is a real surprise in this regard-- you don't have to loo out for it, it'll smack you in the face.) The writing, here, is pretty stock noir, and lacks a bit of the usual character of Sin City's best work-- the same problem afflicted Family Values, but there we had characters we already knew, while here we've got a whole new stable, so it sticks out a bit more.

That said, however, like everything Sin City, this is worth your time. But start at the beginning rather than at the end, will you? *** 
