This volume is comprised of the two books that complete the original Future History series.  More action-oriented than The Man Who Sold the  Moon, and more focused than The Green Hills of Earth, the reputation of the  Heinlein's Future History lies primarily with the longish story &quot;If  This Goes On -&quot; and the short novel Methuselah's Children.  &quot;If  This Goes On -&quot; tells the story of John Lyle, a young legate in the  temple guard of the army of the Prophet, head of the religious organization  that has seized control of America's government.  Lyle becomes enamored of  Sister Judith, one of the Virgins of the Lord who personally serve the  Prophet, and quickly becomes disillusioned with the politicking and  corruption he discovers is commonplace there.  He and his roommate, the  cynical Zebediah Jones, soon find themselves embroiled in a plot to  overthrow the Prophet himself.  This story features plenty of action and  suspense, as well as Heinlein's usual expertise in all matters military.   The notion that American democracy might someday fall to religious fanatics  is a powerful one, and provides a bold backdrop for Lyle's adventures.  The  short stories &quot;Coventry&quot; and &quot;Misfit&quot; serve to make the  transition to the more mature civilization described in Methuselah's  Children.  This novel focuses on Lazarus Long of the Howard Families, a  group which has for some generations been breeding for longevity, (i.e.,  longer lives).  As a result, members of the Howards' bloodlines live nearly  double the average expected life span.  Having kept their existence secret  for over a century, the Howards choose to make themselves known to the rest  of humanity, with dire consequences.  Only through the quick actions of  Lazarus Long, the oldest living Howard, are the families able to escape  with their lives, and try to find a new home among the stars.  Lazarus Long  is very significant in Heinlein's oeuvre, being featured prominently in the  sexually charged Time Enough for Love among others.  In fact, it can be  argued that towards the end of his career, Heinlein himself began to  identify very closely with Lazarus Long.  In any case, Long is a wonderful  creation - tough, crotchety, smart, but not super-smart, capable,  confident, always ready for trouble, but never looking for it, sometimes  crude, but always gallant with ladies, always looking out for number one,  but not afraid to stand up for innocents when the odds merit the attempt -  this is the Lazarus Long that Heinlein fans know and love.  This book is an  absolute must for Heinlein fans, and a fine selection for science fiction  readers who are more interested in social patterns than in physics and  engineering
