Although George W. Bush has gotten credit for the new face of American foreign policy his is merely a reflection of an intellectual movement that's been around for decades, solidified in the early 90's and really took hold after September 11th. The ideology is known as neo-conservativism and its adherents litter the White House and Pentagon. They are marked by an intense hatred of international agreements and organizations, diplomacy and the State Department. The neo-cons preach a black and white, good and evil (with us or against us) worldview and frame their arguments in moralistic terms. To them military force is the catch all answer for international problems with some neo-cons going so far as to advocate continual war. Americans forget or perhaps don't realize that Iraq was intended to be just the first in a string of wars that included Syria, Libya, Iran, Sudan, Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern and African counties.

Rather than an attack from the left `America Alone' is a measured criticism of neo-conservativism from the middle right. The authors point to an intellectual wattage drain in the second generation neo-conservatives. Whereas the first generation went through an evolution in thinking and prided themselves on intellectual experimentation the second generation seems to have been, as the author put it, born middle aged. Experimentation gave way to inflexibility to the point where neo-conservatives found themselves incapable of adapting to a new and increasingly open Soviet Union emerged. The new generation has by and large abandoned academia and moved straight into politics and policy making but operate like someone working from within a gated community. Almost to a man the neo-conservatives have spent no time in the military while continually choose the military route.

Conservatives have long railed against small groups of experts, intellectuals or `elites' setting policy contrary to popular will yet this is exactly what the neo-conservatives have done. They have cynically manipulated public opinion on the Iraqi war using time tested propaganda techniques and brazen lies. There is an arrogance among neo-conservatives that the general public is unprepared for the lofty neo-con goals so rather than articulate their true agenda they offer answers designed simply to placate the populace. This was particularly evident in the WMD sales pitch for an Iraqi invasion. In the case of foreigners the neo-cons feel it's their right, perhaps even duty to completely alter societies that don't conform to western democratic free market capitalism. Although the neo-conservatives claim to be realists their liberal idealism is most evident in Iraq where neo-cons like Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle made obscenely rosy predictions about the outcome of the invasion and the so called `domino effect'. The neo-conservatives believe America can literally reshape the entire Middle Eastern region through sheer brute force and no amount of monetary or human expense is too excessive.

The last few years have seen an unprecedented loss of American prestige and moral leadership. While the United States continues to operate Guantanamo base and refuses negotiations on international treaties like ABM and Kyoto a message is sent to the rest of world that the United States couldn't care less about world opinion. This may satisfy a certain jingoistic spirit but it does immeasurable damage to the United States standing in an increasingly connected world.

`America Alone' is an extremely well researched book filled with important information and fascinating analysis. It's a hefty 340 pages but I never grew bored reading it. I heartily recommend this book to anyone with concern or interest in the future of the United States. 
