Reversible Errors has all the makings of a legal fairy tale.  A partner in a big law firm is assigned to the last minute appeal of a death row inmate who claims innocence.   In the fantasy realm, the lawyer saves the client, gets the girl and makes a million off the ensuing lawsuit.  Real life is not that neat and Scott Turow does a job of portraying believable characters in believable situations.

Scott Turow uses the story of the death penalty appeal as a hook to lure readers into the story of two doomed love affairs.  Arthur Raven is a balding mid-30s lawyer who is generally regarded as competent but not brilliant. He is someone who plays by the rules.  There is a touch of sadness about the fact that he is successful but alone.  He is someone who will lust after his passionate young associate but will not cross the line into impropriety.   Instead, he falls into an improbable romance with Gillian Sullivan, the disgraced former judge who originally heard his client's case.   The developing romance of Arthur and Gillian is told against the backdrop of the decade old romance between the prosecutor and the detective on the case, a cynical "just for laughs" coupling that the parties pursued between and during other involvements.  Both couples seek redemption as they battle over the fate of inmate Rommy Gandolph.   

The legal story is believable because it does not follow a straight trajectory.   Competent legal work develops leads which alternately advance and hamstring the case.   Through use of a dual track story, Turow unfolds the story as it appeared to the original parties in the past and as it is taking place in the present.  Bits and pieces are presented which give clues to the ultimate answer but don't give it away too easily.  When the truth is revealed, it is surprising but not impossible.  

In the end, Arthur doesn't get the girl and goes back to a life of quiet desperation while the prosecutor and the detective break off the affair and go back to their uninspiring spouses.

It is a compelling story, but more than a little bit melancholy. 
