If there is one cliche that I dread above all others in the suspense genre, it is that of a split personality.  I don't know how many stories I've read (or movies I've seen) where the culprit wound up being someone with multiple personality disorder; the writer seems to think of this as a great twist, but it's really just an overused plot device that can only pulled off by lying to the reader.  (It's fine to mislead a reader, but lying to the reader is a cheat, like when a character saves the day with a talent that was never even hinted at before.)  So what's my opinion on Robert Littell's novel on split personalities, Legends?  I thought it was pretty good.

What makes Legends the exception to the rule?  A couple things:  for one thing, the split personality plot device is established early on, not thrown in later as a plot twist; secondly, Littell is a good writer who can pull this off; in the hands of a decent author, any cliche can get new life.  In this case, we get the story of Martin Odum, a retired CIA agent who now makes a living as a private eye.  When Odum had been a field agent, he had adopted a number of guises, in particular that of Dante Pippen, ex-IRA bomber, and Lincoln Dittmann, Civil War historian and gun-runner (each fake background being known as a "legend").  Odum was particularly gifted at adopting new identities and accomplishing missions successfully; unfortunately, he is TOO gifted, and he has begun to lose control of his alternate personalities.

Legends actually opens like an old-fashioned hard-boiled mystery:  Odum is in his New York office when a beautiful woman comes in and asks him to find a missing person.  Stella Kastner wants Odum to find Samat Ugor-Zhilov, a Russian criminal who is married to Stella's devoutly religious sister.  Samat has abandoned his wife, but to get a divorce under Jewish law, Samat must authorize it, and to do this, he must first be found. At first, Odum wants nothing to do with the case, but when he is warned off by his ex-CIA boss, his interest is piqued and he starts the search.

This search will have him going all over the place, from Israel to England to Czechoslovakia to Lithuania, getting closer and closer to Samat, while people related to the case start dying.  To succeed, Odum needs to rely on some of the talents of his alternate identities, Pippen and Dittmann.  As he moves forward, he also is forced to confront aspects of his past that could explain why his personality is as fractured as it is, to the point that he isn't even certain if "Odum" is his true self.

The prevalent theme in Legends seems involve the multiple identities that people construct for themselves.  While Odum/Pippen/Dittmann is the central split-identity character, many of the other characters seem to lead double lives, most notably Samat himself, who appears to be both a vicious Russian mobster and a benevolent medical equipment supplier.

This is only the second book I've read by Littell.  The first was The Company, a decent though flawed (and a bit overrated) epic spy story.  This book, which goes from the grand scale of The Company to a more personal story, is a better work than its predecessor, and a book I'd recommend to fans of the genre.
