This is a work of great scholarship, dealing in both Russian and German documents and made possible by the opening up of some, though by no means all, of the relevant Soviet archives.  It describes the various attitudes and political strategies adopting by the occupying Soviet power in the Eastern zone of Germany in the immediate post war period.  There are revealing episodes in the changing Russian emotions from grotesque revenge in terms of personal humiliations, robbery and `reparations' to the dawning realisation that a viable political and economic system had to be put in place in the emerging, divided Germany.  This change necessitated a vibrant, popular German socialist party which would obey Moscow in every detail.  The failure of the imposed German communism is quite clearly laid out - from the early days of ignoring Russian soldiers revenge-crimes (the strongest the KPD came to condemnation was that criminals `dressed in Russian uniforms' were marauding) to the intimidation of opponents in the elections which were staged. A surprise for me was the insistence, in documentation at least, among the Soviets that the German communists had to win elections. Huge amounts of vitriol were poured on the hapless Communists for their failure to win popularity, even as the Soviets extinguished all other opposition.
	There is quite a level of detail about the political machinations within the German political parties, and within the various parts of the Soviet control systems - towards the end, Stalin became quite suspicious of the loyalty of Soviet officers stationed in Germany.  The book is quite excellent in its descriptions of the changing priorities and policies.  
	Nonetheless I felt somewhat disappointed by the book in two respects - I was quite expecting that the early days in the occupation would see a continuation of the conflict between the Russian commanders Zhukov and Konev, which I had read about in other books.  There was almost no discussion of this, though it did concentrat on the Russian militaries efforts to initially administer the zone, and eventually to yield political control to `reliable' Germans.  I felt the book could have taken a more anecdotal approach to flesh out some of the personality clashes behind the policy discussions.   A more fundamental reservation is the fact that neither the Soviets nor the German communists represented anything like popular political forces,  and , by concentrating on the archives, the book does not adequately represent the nature of the struggle that ordinary Germans had in the GDR. The 1953 rebellion, the cynicism of Brecht and his artistic cohorts, the self-censorship and Stasi-control are alluded too, but these, more than Communist policy, gave the GDR its peculiar flavour.  It was quite difficult to picture this from the book.
	Overall this is book well worth reading, even today, about the perils and travails of an occupying force attempting to install a regime which is both popular and pliant.  
