Finding the Dream is the third and final book in what has become known as the Dream Trilogy. This series follows the lives of three childhood friends, each very different from the others - different ideals and different backgrounds. The common tie is that they were all raised in the same mansion near Monterey, California.

Finding the Dream focuses on Laura Templeton, daughter of a wealthy hotel magnate. Laura has grown up in a life of luxury, having any and all amenities available to her. Her dreams have always been simple - she wants a happy marriage and happy, healthy children. When she turns 18, she thinks her dreams are soon to be fulfilled when Peter, an assistant manager at one of her father's hotels, proposes. The bliss is short-lived when Peter's true colors emerge - all he wants is a boost in his career. He doesn't really want a wife and children and feels they're only something that must be endured to reach his ultimate goal of taking over the Templeton empire. 

Laura struggles to make things work until she finds out that Peter is lying, cheating on her and stealing from her father's company. 

Finding herself divorced and having the sole responsibility of raising her two children, life is far from the dreams Laura once envisioned. She refuses to be taken care of by her parents and insists on supporting herself and trying to survive the struggles of a single parent.

Enter Michel Fury, a friend of Josh, Laura's brother and husband to Margo, Laura's friend. Michael rents a home with stables on the Templeton estate and meets Laura. Ahh ... romance ensues, but if you think it will be a typical romantic story line, you're mistaken. Nora Roberts throws several other aspects into the mix. She shows Michael's struggles to win over and have a loving relationship with Laura's daughters. She shows Peter trying to wheedle his way back into Laura's life through the girls, but only for the purpose of blackmail. Roberts continues with the side mystery of the golden "magical" coins we've seen in the first two books in this trilogy. The story of the coins states that true love and happiness will be in the finder's future and lore has them lost on the cliffs near Templeton House. The story behind these coins is wonderful itself!

I have to say that one of my favorite parts of this book is when Michael decks Peter. Nora Roberts shows her sense of humor in letting Peter get what's truly coming to him.

This trilogy was the first Nora Roberts books I read and they made me a die-hard fan. One reviewer summed everything up by saying, "Nora Roberts's writing is the dream!" I can't argue with that!
