I recently finished Daniel Pinchbeck's "2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl." The author has an incredibly developed gift with words, but he never stoops to cleverness. He comes across as bright, lucid, honest, vulnerable and congruent. It' was the "10,000 volt honesty thing" that really got to me, however. Daniel has shown enormous courage in writing from the heart about his own personal life, relating it to his spiritual growth and the growth of humankind. I found myself saying again and again, "Wow, I wish I could write like that!"

I was saddened, however, when I finished the book no closer to understanding the book's structure than I was in the beginning. It was clearly autobiographical, but the title suggested something more. It felt to me that Daniel had put together a bunch of sometimes unrelated essays under the "2012 and Quetzalcoatl" banner and that the choosing of that name was a tad bit exploitive.

Some of the essays (Kali/Shakti, crop circles, UFO's, Burning Man) were totally brilliant--Daniel developed certain themes that others have not addressed nearly as well--but the Santo Daime story at the end of the book was just too weird for me. After all but ignoring Quetzalcoatl for most of the book, Daniel begins to hear what he imagines is Quetzalcoatl's "voice." This occurs after he has deeply embraced the tradition of Santo Daime, which initially, he just as deeply rejected. After messing with his mind for far too many pages, the "voice" comes through as a series of "teachings." Given Q's effect on his life during that period, it seems probable that this figure was an exponent of an unintegrated archetype, specifically that of the Trickster. The figure whom Daniel calls Q certainly seems to be split off and unintegrated. That Daniel constellated a "connection with Q" after weeks (?) of taking ayahuasca is no big deal. Bush proclaims a connection with God. Q's "voice" sounded suspiciously like a cross between Ramtha and Shirley MacLain. It said a lot of lovely things, yes, but Daniel said them far more eloquently and, to my mind at least, far more authoritatively when he spoke in his own voice.

On balance, however, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was seminal and is an essential piece of literature for our times.

I would tentatively add a few words of my own to the Mayan mix. As a symbol, Quetzalcoatl may very well be the Plumed Serpent of Revelation that the Judeo-Christian tradition has, on an unconscious level, so vigorously rejected. Perhaps those who look to the sky (the so-called noosphere) for the signal of his coming are mistaken. Perhaps in this coming incarnation, he will come from within the Earth itself.

Light alone will not save us. It needs to be grounded in LIFE. "The explusion from Eden," at an esoteric level, represents the collective shift from a recognition of the Life and sentiency in everything around us to a view that Matter is DEAD. A "return to the Garden" implies the ability to resonate with the "signature temporality" of everything that exists. It implies the ability to look at rocks and walls and bodies, and see that the One Consciousness that they share is infinitely individuated and totally ALIVE. I am reminded of that old Leonard Cohen song from Beautiful Losers, "God is alive/ Magic is afoot."

Could it be that Matter is not at all a dead thing? Could it be that within Matter, there are elemental beings that are as oppressed by their lot as we are by ours? Could it be that beyond all the quarks and charms of the physical world, there is a choir of angelic beings from whose SONG Matter and everything else in the world emanates on a moment-by-moment basis?

If that is true, perhaps it is heuristically meaningful to suggest that Quetzalcoatl's role in his latest incarnation is to serve as a "conductor" for this "choir," and in so doing, transform the "Fire in the Earth" into something bright and beautiful and living, so that, in a lightning flash, the curtain is lifted and the optical illusion in which we have been living for so many millenia gives way to an entirely new vision. It is interesting to note that in Kabbalistic gematria, the word for Eden and time are ontologically related. Perhaps Quetzalcoatl's cosmic mission in this latest incarnation is to bring us back to the Garden and open the Gates of Understanding
