Research has proven time and again the efficacy of teaching phonics for reading.  Children who learn to decode words are equipped to decode the meanings of sentences which the words form.  Thus they have fewer reading comprehension problems than their whole language method peers.  Unfortunately, phonics is usually not taught in it's entirety, progressively where one rule is built upon another, and spelling is not taught along the way--so that children learn to spell the words that adhere to the specific phonics rules as they are being taught.  

ABCs and All Their Tricks does an excellent job of summarizing the importance of phonics, how it should be taught, and why it's effective.  It accurately and in easily understood explanation states one phonics rule and then lists most of the words that follow the rule.  The listings are in order for easy reference and understanding.  It addresses typical anti-phonics arguements--such as it doesn't work, spelling issues, and exceptions to rules (generally the exceptions are really different rules, and ABCs explains the reasons behind all of this).  Perhaps most important in countering anti-phonics arguments, ABCs notes a study of the English language conducted in the early 1970s that evaluated over 19,000 words and determined how many of those words followed phonetic rules and how many were exceptions.  Most of the exceptions have reasons why they don't follow said rule--usually a cognate from another language, and where possible, ABCs notes the cognate and offers explanation.

This book can be used as a reference guide for the reading/spelling/phonics teacher, for a person who learned to read phonetically, but has forgotten the specific rules, or as an independent, inexpensive phonics textbook.  

Regardless of your attitude toward reading methods, I highly recommend that any reading teacher or homeschool parent read this book and keep it on the reference shelf.  The explanations are interesting, enlightening, and sensible.  They bring understanding to our language and it's nature, as well as the rules we follow just being able to read (whether phonics was the method used to teach reading or not)and communicate in English. 
