I came to Amazon to buy yet another Wishcraft to give to someone who is wondering, "What next?" While here, I read a skeptical review asking, "What happened to these people twenty years later?"

I can't tell you about the people in the book, but I can tell you what happened to one person who read it more than twenty years ago.  I was a Kansas housewife and mother when I read Wishcraft. While working through the first half of the book, I decided I wanted to be a negotiator or mediator. The book makes no mention of any such thing; I knew no one who did this. The book's exercises gave me tools to imagine. Sher's strategic question, "Can I do this tomorrow?" led me to decide that the first step was to go to the library to find a book about negotiation. I can still feel the knot in my stomach as I pulled that book half-way out from a top shelf -- then pushed it back, thinking, "Who do I think I am? I can't do this!" Then pulling it all the way out, thinking, "I've been checking books out of the library all my life, I CAN do THIS!"  With strategic tools and encouragement from Wishcraft, I found training, an internship, and supervision from some of the best in the field, and went on to head a state-wide farmer/creditor debt-restructuring mediation agency. As life went on, my goals have continued to grow, and the tools I learned from this book continue to help me achieve them. It helps that I eventually studied negotiation at Harvard and earned an MPA from the Kennedy School -- but I never would have even applied if this book hadn't give me the tools to imagine and to go after what I really want. Sometimes things imagined appear without work. I don't credit the book with those gifts; I credit the book with helping me recognize and savor them. 
Recently a career coach and her client sat down next to me on a bench in Boston Common. After listening to her list career book recommendations, I couldn't help interrupting to ask what she thought of Wishcraft. Her tone was matter-of-fact: "Oh, it's still the best."
