This is a magnificent book. It provides an insightful collection of 
essays whose overriding theme may be summarized by the following 
statement: "Political liberty is a spiritual value." An autobiographical 
introduction positions the author as a former 60s "liberal" who 
gradually woke up to smell the coffee. This is followed by an essay that 
distinguishes between the political philosophies of individualism and 
collectivism, personal liberty versus "group rights." An essay on Waco 
makes it clear that the deaths of 100 Americans can not be brushed over 
as some "little aberration" of the Clinton era. An essay on September 
11th draws on the author's expertise with Islamic secret societies. The 
essay on the Second Amendment is written by a partisan of the Bill of 
Rights who understands the meaning of the phrase "shall not be 
infringed." I personally found his (humorously titled) Goddesses, Guns 
and Guts to be the most controversial in the book. Here, a well-known 
occultist discusses the need for belief in a higher power to make 
oneself a worthy candidate for true political freedom. Suggested Actions 
offers an elementary program to begin to break out of the modern media 
trance of daily life. Liber Oz by Aleister Crowley makes clear the 
author's true Libertarian stance in words of one syllable.

These essays comprise the first half of the book. They are followed by 
meticulous documentation to buttress the boldness of the author's 
statements. I had only the vaguest familiarity with the utter 
contemptuousness and banality of the key founding documents and 
agreements of the United Nations. Although this material may be said to 
have been "hidden in plain sight" for decades, I wonder how many of you 
or your friends have ever read it. I think Wasserman proves his point 
that the UN is the prototype of a one world socialist tyranny designed 
to creep into every living room and bedroom on planet Earth. And he does 
so by providing accurate and complete versions of the material these 
busybody bureaucratic wannabes have written themselves.

One may easily dismiss the author's assertions of the treasonous trend 
lines of America's ruling elite (whether disguised as "democrats" or 
"republicans") as the opinion of a patriot who may have an untimely 
fervor for individual liberty. Like some 18th century throwback who 
didn't realize the Age of the Expert had put an end to the concept of 
personal sovereignty, the author's passion flows through a series of 
carefully reasoned arguments. However, if you combine his opinions with 
the documentary evidence provided by the Freedom From War position paper 
of the U.S. State Department, (personally delivered by President Kennedy 
to the UN in 1962) reproduced in full as Appendix Three, you begin to 
realize that just because you're paranoid doesn't mean everyone's not 
out to get you!

If I had any argument with this book, it was his presenting the full 
text of the Constitution in the first Appendix. This would seem to be so 
widely known that I initially wondered why it was included. On 
reflection however, I remembered that my son had graduated from one of 
the three advanced public high schools in NYC and had never read the 
Constitution! Perhaps I understand the author's reluctance to leave that 
crucial material out. It also adds immeasurably to the ability of the 
reader to understand the primary question asked by this book, namely: 
"Who, in his right mind, would be supportive of a political system that 
intended to replace his unalienable rights with alienable privileges?" 
The inclusion of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and 
the Bill of Rights provides black and white evidence of the concept of 
"unalienable" rights as envisioned by America's founders. The inclusion 
of the UN material provides clear evidence of what is meant by the 
phrase "alienable privileges." And the publication of Freedom From War 
makes it clear that many in this U.S. government are seeking to 
undermine our unique Constitutional freedoms by substituting the 
international community's vision of the origin of political rights as 
deriving from the State. The author dares to calls this "treason."

The annotated reading list suggests some great books for further 
research. Personally, I cannot recommend this book highly enough
