First of all, I was not overweight before starting the "diet"; I got this book as a way to eat healthier.  Even though I wasn't fat, I'm sure my 6 Cokes a day and weekly trips to Wing Night weren't great for me.  I've owned the book for a year, but only have recently begun to follow it more strictly with my girlfriend.  I think this is the most sensible diet out there.  Your weight loss is not as dramatic as starving yourself, or putting your body into an emergency weight-loss state by cutting carbs, but you know in the long term you're doing what your body needs.

One thing that I think would make this diet more successful is accountability.  Like I said, I didn't really do the diet until I was doing it with my girlfriend.  I think doing it with a friend, keeping a food journal, or even just talking to someone once a week about the diet will help keep you on track.  Plus, it gives you someone to enjoy your cheat meals with!

On the downside, my girlfriend has not lost as much weight as I have, so we're looking forward to the "Abs Diet for Women" book coming out in May. I've heard this is a common complaint about this diet.  Hopefully this new book will address the reasons women do not lose weight as easily as men, and not just how to prevent osteoporosis (something my 22-year old girlfriend isn't too worried about).  However, both of our body fat %ages have gone down, and we've both noticed a change in the way our bodies look and how our clothes fit!

I do agree that the book needs to be edited.  Did you know that 1 pound of extra muscle burns 50 extra calories a day?  Because if not, Zinczenko will remind you every 10 pages.  He explains the benefits of his diet, and why other diets fail time and time (and time) again.  He often restates in the text of the book the same information that you can read in the sidebars.  If you really need it driven home that much, why not do what I did, just read the book twice!  I'm sure part of the reason he does this is for people who do not read the book cover to cover, just flip to the chapters that look interesting, but I have to say, if you do this, then you will not get the full benefits of the diet.  

One final observation about the diet.  Weight loss aside, I have noticed that I seldom get tired during the day.  I used to fall asleep in classes all of the time, and I just do not notice that intense drowsiness anymore.  In addition, a (somewhat strange) side-effect of the diet for the two of us, and another person I've talked to on the diet: our fingernails grow about twice as fast.  I have to clip them every week, as opposed to every 2 weeks.  Interesting..
