Frederic Seebohm's Oxford Reformers, an intellectual history of fifteenth and sixteenth century England, is primarily a collective biography. Seebohm presents the thought of John Colet, Desiderius Erasmus, and Thomas More not as an end in itself but to show the intellectual and personal relationships among them. The best parts of the book relate directly to Seebohm's purpose, his descriptions of each man's character, of how they came to know each other, and of how they supported one another in their work. For example, John Colet is the lonely reformer who with his lectures on the Pauline epistles wages a solitary battle at Oxford against Scholasticism, all the while awaiting a companion and co-laborer. Having found, he believed, that co-laborer in Erasmus, Colet is severely disappointed when Erasmus returned to the continent for further study until Erasmus later rejoined him in England. The relationship between Erasmus and More is also developed, from Erasmus's recognition of More by the brilliance of his arguments to Erasmus's frequent stays at More's home. Most importantly, More's internal conflicts about becoming a monk are presented in light of Erasmus's sufferings with monasticism. Particularly good are the descriptions of John Colet's preaching, without regard to for his own safety, against the corruption of bishops, against Henry VIII's war with France, and against corruption during Woolsey's investment as cardinal. 

Seebohm describes at length the major philosophical and theological themes of the Oxford Reformers by analyzing their major works. Their most prevalent theme is anti-Scholasticism, seen most clearly in Colet's creed: "Keep firmly to the Bible and the Apostles' Creed, and let divines, if they like, dispute about the rest." Part of that anti-Scholasticism is their shared approach to the Bible. Both Erasmus and Colet regarded the Bible as inspired, but not verbally inspired. Both thought that its true meaning resides in the literal sense and could be discovered by means of grammar and history; both thought that criticism of the Bible and even the accommodation of its text were necessary. Colet and Erasmus were also unified by an anti-Augustinian theology. Both Colet and Erasmus favored the writings of Jerome, Origen, and Dionysius to the writing of Augustine, and their theologies developed accordingly. Colet, for example, believed that God's election was conditional upon the merit of the one whom God elected. All three men also united against the avarice of authority. Colet's sermons, Erasmus's Praise of Folly, More's first speech in Parliament resisting the King's appropriations, all denounced the greed of church and king. The men's shared intellectual emphases were matched by a shared personal piety, though both Erasmus and More fell far short of Colet in this respect. Colet showed his piety in sermons about the Christlikeness that the gospel requires; Erasmus in his Enchiridion, and More in his struggles about becoming a monk and in always wearing a hair shirt.

On the whole, Seebohm succeeds in his task of writing a collective biography of the Oxford Reformers. He comes somewhat short, however, of writing a history of the Oxford Reformers. He does an excellent job of describing who those men were and what they thought; he does a poor job explaining their place in intellectual, religious, and English history.   

Seebohm begins with a failure to put Colet, Erasmus, and More in the context of those who preceded them. Without that context, the Oxford Reformers are isolated from those who influenced them and those whom they influenced. Little explanation is given about the condition of the church. Wycliffe, an earlier reformer also from Oxford, is scarcely mentioned in the book. Martin Luther and John Huss are mentioned, but only in passing. Seebohm does try to explain Colet's thought as originating in a revival of neo-Platonism in Florence by trying to connect Colet to Savonarola. But he admits that there is no evidence that Colet ever traveled through Florence or heard Savonarola. He fixes that apparent flaw by arguing that there is no evidence that he did not hear Savonarola.

One cannot blame Seebohm for admiring his subjects (or at least Colet), but one could wish that he wrote about them rather than about his admiration for them. There is no spot to be found in any of them, especially not in Colet. For example, in refuting the accusation that Colet was a cruel schoolmaster, Seebohm makes a cogent argument, but the problem is that he assumes his conclusion at the beginning rather than examining the facts and then coming to a conclusion. He describes More's family life, full of problems as being a model of happiness. Seebohm is not content to describe Colet's theology; he must go out of his way to praise its superiority to the theology of those in Seebohm's time who held to a propitiatory atonement. More's Utopia is not just described; Seebohm extends More's arguments further than More himself went. At times, it seems that Seebohm has abandoned facts entirely and describes the Oxford Reformers not as they were but as he wishes they had been. 

Seebohm includes many primary sources. Letters in their entirety, long extracts from major works, and longer analyses of those works form the bulk of Seebohm's book. All these primary sources give direct insight into the minds of Colet, Eramus, and More, but the insight gained would be greater if the sources had been put into broader contexts. For example, Seebohm stirs great admiration for Colet's bravery in preaching a sermon that was not enjoyed by the bishops assembled to hear him. He then summarily dismisses Colet's trial for heresy in a page, leaving the reader dissatisfied, having hoped for an explanation of what people other than the Oxford Reformers were thinking in order that he could have something to set in contrast to their thought.

Perhaps the greatest fault with Seebohm's book is that he almost never explains the impact these men had on the English people, on religious developments in Europe, and especially on the English reformation. Where one expects to read history, he reads panegyric. And that is the greatest dissatisfaction to the reader and the greatest slight to Colet, Erasmus, and More. If they were truly the great men that Seebohm believes them to be, then they carved their epithets into future generations. Their reputations, and Seebohm's book, would have been better served by a description of that impact on future developments.

In short, Seebohm does a good job illumining the Oxford Reformers. Unfortunately his book is a spotlight shining on them and them alone, giving no illumination to their surroundings. Had he given more attention to their context, case, Seebohm would have succeeded not only in writing a collective biography but also the history of Colet, Erasmus, and More
