Judith Rich Harris was a career psychology text book writer. It took her years of examining the research before she had her epiphany, but we must note that it was this humble text book writer, not a big gun Professor of psychology who finally comprehended that the research and what psychologists tell people do not match. When it comes to family matters, the research clearly indicates that psychology should not so quickly find parents guilty for what their children do, or for how they turn out. 

One insight Harris gives us is that after a few years of school attendance, the child the parents live with and the one outsiders see is probably not the same person. The explanation is simple. Children are internally driven to assume a place among their peers in the world outside the family. Afterall, the goal of childhood is not to become a fine child but to go forth and make your way in the world. Perhaps parents who focus on their children's peer environment are not old foggy or merely responding to personal control issues. (maybe the next epiphany we get from the house of arrogance is that not all people who work a lot are workaholics. Work with unionized state mental health therapists and you may learn that anyone who works over 40 hours a week without a gun to their head is suffering from: "workaholism". "science" or politics?)

Academic reviewers and readers seem to overlook an important question raised by the mere existence and the many academic accolades of "Nurture Assumption." The question? What gives with psychologists? Is there a group think tendency afoot? Are politics and 'blame the parents' rituals causing Psychology to follow the mantra and to smoke and mirror its own "scientific" research? What kind of "science" has that problem?

I will illustrate what I am getting at. For many years, psychiatrists, psychologists, clinical social workers & pediatricians blamed mothers for schizophrenia, autism, Down's syndrome, depression, the neuroses, particularly Obsessive Compulsive Disorder. The Harris book indirectly questions, at last, the blaming of the parents for just about everything their children do, despite the considerable evidence that many of the parent's are good parents. 

More than a few parents find themselves wrongfully prejudged guilty by the kangaroo court of the helping professionals. Many  may harbor powerful unresolved issues of their own. At least when psychoanalysis reigned as supreme 'truth in living,' "therapists" submitted to analysis before they went into practice. 

Psychoanalysis may have proven to be shamanism disguised by scientific sounding 25 cent words but at least the therapists were also victims of the same shake, rattle and roll. Some people still prefer help from a real priest. At least, they know for sure who church counselors serve, or so they say.

I recommend that all parents read "The Nuture Assumption". You may need it to either defend youself against incompent  child professionals of the teaching, social work, or therapist kind, or to forgive yourself for a tragic child, for whom you thought you did all you could. 

Harris writes like the text book writer she is' clear but academically. It is unfortunate that there is not an abridged  "for the public" version of her book for parents.  
