Surrealism, absurdity, dadaism, abstraction.  The twentieth century gave us plenty of words to describe the movement in art that eschewed normal dedication to order and jumbled together randomness, or at least stuff that might look random.  Detractors argue, of course, that anyone can throw together nonsense.  And they're right, of course.  But it takes a genius to produce good nonsense.

Joe Fernwright works as a healer of ceramic pots in a huge androgynous office complex in Cleveland.  Business is slow, especially since ceramic pots have been outlawed in favor of plastic.  To make matters worse, the government forces its citizens to dream about the glories of Che Guevera, inflation is diminishing his earnings, and he gets only limited use from telephone diciontaries and encyclopedias.  Joe is almost ready to give up when someone badly in need of pot-healing services starts dropping messages in his toilet.  After this mysterious benefactor transports him inside a crate, which he learns about by means of a radio show, Joe joins dozens of others on a galactic quest to Plowman's Planet where an enormous liquid (maybe) entity called Glimmung wishes to raise a gigantic cathedral from the depths of Mare Nostrum.  Or possibly Hell.  After that things really get strange.

Of course, as with Douglas Adams or Neil Barrett there's much more at work here than pure silliness.  The insanity is all being carefully orchestrated so as to make us think about the big questions of redemption, indivdiualism, determinism, death, purpose, and many others besides.  And the philosophy in turn gives way to yet more insanity, such as when Joe argues with a computer over whether Glimmung's arch-nemesis' victims are sitting ducks or sitting hens.

Phillip K. Dick obeyed few of the rules that any beginning writer is told to follow.  But time and again, when we read his works we see his shrewd insight cutting effortlessly through the morass of modern thought.  Consider at the start where Joe and other bored office drones play "The Game", which consists of running English phrases through a compujterized translator to Japanese and then back to English, and then trying to figure out the original phrase from the result.  Absurd, no?  Except that in our modern world, thanks to the wonder of the internet, many folks actually play such games with the Babblefish program, and often with hilarious results.  That's Phillip K Dick for you.  Don't laugh too hard at his notions, because they might get sneaky and come true
