After years of being neglected by all the "Find Your True Work"-oriented books, courses, and career counselors, we "Renaissance souls" now seem to have an embarrassment of riches.  I read this book and Barbara Sher's "Refuse to Choose" in succession.  Both are well worth reading, and, while I prefer Sher's book for several reasons, I strongly urge anyone who recognizes themselves as a "Renaissance soul" to read both books.

Lobenstine has had a typical "Renaissance soul" career herself, as well as working with many others, so she's able to recount many encouraging and helpful anecdotes.  For those of us who have grown frustrated with the "follow your passion" approach to career planning because we can't pin ourselves down to only one passion, it's great to know that we're not alone.  And as her title implies, throughout much of human history, having multiple interests was considered an asset rather than a sign of "immaturity" or "inability to focus."

Her exercises (especially the "values" one) are very useful for self-understanding. She offers good advice about how to use your various skills and interests in the work world -- by finding (or creating) an "umbrella" job that covers a range of interests, or by being a serial monogamist in several fields, or by taking a J.O.B. that enables you to further your passions without locking you into an uncongenial career path.  Finally, she provides a helpful reading list (although, having read many of the books on it, I've learned that most of them promote a "follow your bliss" viewpoint that assumes that everyone has a single passion in life).

I have some quibbles:
1. Lobenstine seems to feel that all "Renaissance souls" are fundamentally alike, so they'll all find the same type(s) of job congenial.  (Sher does better with this.)
2. Expecting your family to support your unconventional approach to jobs may or may not work, depending on your family.  (My parents adhered to the Depression-era ethic of Never Quit a Good Job, Even If It's Destroying Your Soul -- which, by the way, literally killed my father -- so for me to expect their support would have been an exercise in frustration.)
3. The "reverse flow chart" approach was, as far as I'm aware, first laid out by Barbar Sher in *Wishcraft* in the 1980's.  While Lobenstine mentions the book, she doesn't credit Sher specifically for this exercise.  It's probably an innocent oversight, but it left a bad taste in my mouth
