For those that want to debate MacDonald's guilt or innocence, you must try to think like a good investigator.  Good investigators gather and examine the evidence, then they let the evidence lead them to a conclusion rather than trying to find evidence that supports a theory.  Bad investigators will ignore overwhelming evidence, and grasp at a few straws that support their pet theory.

Also, physical evidence is always the most important thing to be considered.  People can lie, but the physical evidence is what it is, and must be given the most weight.

In this case there is overwhelming physical evidence to lead a good investigator to a conclusion.  The evidence clearly points to Jeffrey MacDonald as the person who murdered his wife and two children.  Those that say MacDonald is not the killer have chosen to only look for evidence to support their theory, ignoring anything that might not support their theory, rather than look at ALL the evidence and see what conclusion it leads to.  They wish to ignore the evidence that points to MacDonald, and grasp at a few straws that might allow for another possibility.

There are a lot fanatics on both sides of this debate, but anyone who looks at the evidence objectively will come to one conclusion:  Jeffrey MacDonald killed his wife and two daughters.

Some want to make an issue of motive.  Why would MacDonald do it?

The prosecutor in this case once said in response to people who said MacDonald wasn't the kind f person who could do this, "If you prove he did it, you don't have to prove he's the kind of person who could do it." 

With regard to motive I'll paraphrase the prosecutor, "If you prove he did it, you don't have to prove why he did it."  People can offer theories, and even present things that might support those theories, like McGinniss does.  However, it is all just theories and speculation, but none of it changes what the evidence shows us about the crime.

The evidence, it is what it is, and it leads good investigators to a logical conclusion, a conclusion in this instance which is beyond a reasonable doubt
