In this charming story of good versus evil, author Betty Dravis introduces us to the Toonies.  Small beings who live in Cartoon Land, the world inside of our computers, the Toonies, like humans, come in good and bad form.  Although some of them look a lot like us, others, such as the Mischief-Makers, resemble ape-like birds.  But I bet you're wondering what the heck Toonies have to do with Silicon Valley, aren't you?

Thirteen-year-old Jeremy Kern is a young cartoonist/illustrator with his own very popular cartoon, "Doog Days."  Absolutely enamored with his Apple computer, nicknamed "Wiseguy," Jeremy spends a lot of his time creating and updating the characters involved in his "Doog Days" cartoon.  The world of the Toonies provides a reprieve for Jeremy, since his parents seem to be constantly arguing ever since his dad lost his job.

But the day Doog, the main character from his cartoon, jumps out of his computer and enters Jeremy's real life is a little bit beyond imagination.  Doog is on a mission, though, and he won't quit until he convinces Jeremy that the world he has created is more than just fiction.

It seems that, in Cartoon Land, there's a Mischief-Maker named Dab who will do anything to stay in the real world.  He plans to take over all of the computers he can -- hoping, one day, to even take over the world.  But Doog, working under the guidance of the leader of Cartoon Land, Uncle Wom, is on a quest to stop Dab and his fellow Mischief-Makers before bad things start to happen in the real world.  Along with his fellow Toonies, they need Jeremy's help, and his expertise, to stop Dab.

This is a great science-fiction fantasy story for kids of all ages, or for those who are young at heart.  Although the story of good versus evil has been told thousands of time, it's never been told quite like this.  You'll appreciate Ms. Dravis' insight into the behind-the-scenes workings of a young teenager's mind, and laugh-out-loud at the humorous scenarios her humans and Toonies find themselves in.  This story is a real winner!

Reviewed by:  Jennifer Wardrip, aka "The Genius
