 A husband and wife team of serial killers begins operating in Paradise, Massachusetts. They choose a victim and then methodically track their movements until they identify the perfect time to kill them, which is done by two simultaneous shots, one from each of them. After committing the crime, they go back to their apartment and make love while watching videos of their victim.  Jesse Stone, the police chief in Paradise, is placed under great pressure to solve the murders. There is no apparent connection between the victims and the last one is a woman that Jesse was dating.
 There is also another major case that Jesse is working on. A sixteen-year old girl was gang-raped by three guys who held her down and photographed her. Since the girl had immediately taken a bath after the rapes, there is no physical evidence. They have terrorized her so that she is afraid to accuse them. Jesse is furious and baits a trap for them by supposedly launching an undercover drug investigation at the high school. Since he sends officers that everyone knows, it is generally laughed off. However, one of his officers is female and while driving the bus, she spots one of the rapists smoking a joint. He is arrested and they find one of the photos in his backpack. This starts a process whereby they manage to identify and capture all three boys. However, since they are underage, a plea agreement is reached and they receive relatively light punishment. Jesse does what he can to help the girl, but eventually her family moves out of town. 
 While Jesse is chasing the demons that are killing people, he must also face some internal demons, his addiction to alcohol and his attachment to Jen, his ex-wife. She is a very selfish woman; she works for a local news station and tries to use Jesse's love for her to get inside information concerning the investigation. Jesse is able to stay away from the alcohol, but despite his relationships with other women, he cannot break away from Jen. When the other women ask him to explain it to them, all he can say is, "I love Jen (more)." 
 Jesse gets a break in the case when the serial killers target him as their next and last victim in Paradise. He understands that and positions several officers around the site they have chosen to commit the hit. Jesse wears a vest, counting on their pattern of shooting their victims in the chest. He is shot in the chest, but the killers have planned it so well, they manage to escape after killing another officer. However, their arrogance proves to be their undoing, Jesse manages to track them to Canada where they are arrested. 
 While the story line is a good mystery, what makes this story work so well is the quality of the dialog. The conversations between Jesse and his fellow officers, especially with Molly and Suitcase Simpson, are occasionally hilarious and always entertaining. Even though the dialog is nearly always deadpan and occasionally requires a bit of thought, it is as funny as other stories that are meant to be humorous. Robert Forster's narration also adds a bit of additional intensity, as he deadpans the jokes with just the right lack of extra inflection
