Augusten Burroughs takes the reader on a wild ride into the world of constant live TV and it's quirky hosts making for a delectable and savory morsel of a read. The book is small in pages, but each line is jam packed with wit and makes for a really pleasurable read. This is a great book for those who think they don't like to read, I bet they will catch themselves sitting back ad gobbling it up and before they know it they will be as addicted to Burroughs as I am. 

Sellevision is a home shopping network that sells anything from jewelry to cosmetics, clothes, house furnishings and gifts for all. It really reminds me of watching networks such as QVC as a kid, giggling at the forced presentations with the hosts beaming their 1000 watt smiles no matter what goof or unfortunate things happened. Such is the world of Sellevision, well at least on the outside, while stalking, alcoholism, cheating, back stabbing and addictions of all sorts are hidden under the placid masks of the hosts.

Each host has their own set of problems and tribulations, when each chapter or even a few pages per chapter jump around from one to another and make the reader go from one hair rising scenario to the next. In the end I wanted to read all of the stories at once, for each one whether it was Max who was fired for a certain incident, overly religious Peggy Jean with a bored husband and a hot babysitter who was being stalked through funny emails, Trish who wanted the spotlight and the best hours, Bebe who wanted to meet Mr.Right or Leigh who was having an affair at work that would really end with a bang, each one of those and a big handful of others made for an insanely hilarious book where stories crisscrossed and people dug holes under their own feet only to have to pretend on live TV that they were fine and that they didn't want to kick and scream right there and then. The funny items being sold, the on-air callers, pill popping, job interviews and horrific but funny incidents happening on live TV were a great topic for a fun book. I can't wait to read more of Mr. Burroughs as he takes every day life and adds a zesty twist to jolt the reader into the magical world of reading and it's enjoyment. 

To me reading books boils down to having a good time, of entering the mind of the writer, as who knows what awaits in it and going for a refreshing dive of unreal reality.

- Kasia S.
