Some good writing, and a sense of the period that's fairly astounding, but in the end sloppy editing and some mystifying layout choices sink a promising book.

Everyone knew about Truman Capote and the success of IN COLD BLOOD after years spent in the wilderness of Kansas perfecting the non-fiction novel.  Now this was his thank you gift to himself.  He spent $16,000 (actually not a super huge sum even back in the 1960s, but a figure he upped considerably every time he retold it) on a party that had all of high society scheming for invitations.

Deborah Davis sketches in Capote's whole career in the first quarter of her book, using Gerald Clarke's big biography for support so often that, when one turns to the notes, one sees the phrase "Clarke, op cit" dozens and dozens of times.  (If being footnoted got biographers any money, we'd all be rich.)  Sometimes she strays from her Clarke citations to spend a little time with the George Plimpton "oral history" of Capote, which isn't as good.

When the party revs up the story builds in suspense, and the whole account of the affair is right on, making you think that, even if you weren't there, you had a front row seat and could watch Penelope Tree's neearly nude outfit or Lauren Bacall frugging with Jerome Robbins, etc.  Kay Graham sounds like a dowdy hag and then, towards the end of the book, a photo shows her looking glamorous, indistinguishable from Capote's other "swans."

It was just some of Deborah Davis' word choices that baffle.  She suggests that IN COLD BLOOD became a success because people had been primed to read about "psychopathic killers."  Readers, she says, "may have read that Alan Ladd had been cast to play a psychopathic killer in THIS GUN FOR HIRE."  Was this a good example for her thesis?  Her wording suggests that the film of THIS GUN FOR HIRE had not yet been released by 1959, and yet surely any editor could have told her that it was a film from the very early 1940s.  Readers (and moviegoers) surely knew all about Hitchcock's PSYCHO, or the Boston Strangler, by the time of IN COLD BLOOD.  It was all over the place, our obsession with the psychopathic.  She didn't have to stretch back in time to 1942 to find a predecessor
