This occupational memoir traces Fred Friendly's sixteen years with Columbia Broadcasting System where he spearheaded the production of hundreds of public service programs and documentaries. With Ed Murrow he brought series like See It Now and CBS Reports to light.

He resigned in 1966, his last two years serving as president of the news division.  He saw the direction of what he was steadfastly accomplishing regarding the organization's responsible handling of the news be summarily emasculated in just several days.  The power to decide what was newsworthy was now relegated to a pawn (Schnieder) who was not versed in international events, but heavily influenced by pure profits and the advice of the new efficiency experts.  A firm and cold decision by this pawn to air a fifth rerun of an I Love Lucy episode (followed by an eigth rerun of The Real McCoys) over the extremely pertinent testimony of Ambassador George Kennan in the Vietnam Hearings was more than Fred could bear.  His principles wouldn't allow it.  Every news executive pleaded at the time to air Kennan, but to no avail.

This book is beautifully written and very engaging.  It includes Fred's letter of resignation.  It is a masterpiece of literature.

This book, or Fred's life, could easily be made into a movie.  It has all of the captivating elements of the best dramas.  It might appropriately be called "The Big Switch" (which is how the New York Times described the control of the air time).

Fred Friendly is an American hero.  He remained determined in his pursuit of journalistic excellence and is responsible for a six hundred round table discussion - 83 that appeared on PBS that featured moderators like Harvard Law School's Arthur Miller.  These were the Columbia University Seminars on Media and Society... dubbed the Fred Friendly Seminars.  The panels included a wide array of top names in all branches government and business.

I will end by quoting Mr. Friendly in his later life:

"Our purpose is not to make up anybody's mind, but to open minds, your mind, and to make the agony of decision-making so intense that you can escape only by thinking."

Five Stars 
