Did Ian Fleming want to kill 007 at the end of the previous novel, "From Russia with Love"?  In the final paragraphs of that book, Rosa Klebb kicks out the deadly poisoned spike in her shoe and jabs Bond before she's thrown into a laundry basket and hustled away by Mathis and his assistants.

So I was curious as to how Fleming would resurrect Bond for the next novel, "Doctor No."  He does a decent job of explaining away how 007 survived, but there is no mention of what happened to Tania--which is something I'm curious about as I read the novels this time.  (At the beginning of "From Russia with Love," Fleming describes the demise of Bond's relationship with Tiffany Case from "Diamonds are Forever").

Although Bond delivered the girl and the Spektor cipher machine--and survived his encounter with Red Grant, the total psycho killing machine--he's treated as if he screwed up and sent to Jamaica to look into the disappearnce of another agent.  A little job in the sun that shouldn't take much effort.

Well, this is James Bond we're talking about here, so we know he isn't going to get much of a holiday out of the piddling little assignment.

"Doctor No" has the lean, fluid style that keeps the story moving.  It's set in the Caribbean where Fleming lived and wrote all of the Bond novels.  I focused more on his description of Doctor No while trying to keep the image of the painfully-Caucasian Joseph Wiseman out of my mind (he was the actor who played No in the film version).

I would put this novel in the same category with "Diamonds are Forever": a strong action story with a couple of over-the-top moments that, although they worked while reading it, look a little strange with some afterthought.  In "Diamonds", it was the Italian gangster who liked to dress up like a cowboy in his own private Wild West town.  In "Doctor No", it was the obstacle course and giant octopus fight.

The best novels are "Casino Royale", "Live and Let Die", and definitely "From Russia with Love."

I wasn't that wild about "Moonraker."

Next up: "Goldfinger.
