What a wonderful book! I read it soon after reading Walter Pidgeon's book entitled The Not-For-Profit CEO, and I thought it really added to it. Pidgeon touched upon what it takes to be successful as a CEO, and the author here tells us in a narrative format comprising of 192 pages how to be effective/successful. I recommend this book to anyone who is responsible for leading a sole proprietorship, a small business, a nonprofit, a department in a for-profit, or a large for-profit. In short, I recommend it for an executive/leader.

Most, if not all, of the points in this book are obvious. No rocket science here. The five main points I got from the book are that a leader must:

1. Understand what she was hired to do and do it
2. Stick to doing things that add value
3. Play on her strengths, and don't worry too much about her weaknesses
4. Strategize, plan, prioritize and focus
5. Lead by making rational decisions based on fact rather than opinion

A leader or executive is someone whose work requires tasks of his or her head. He or she does knowledge work. The author states that other workers do tasks of the legs that amount to physical or manual work. He points out time and time again that performing knowledge work is hard to do and still be effective at doing it. A leader who keeps the above five points in mind when doing her work will do it effectively. She will be achieving results - not merely appearing to be busy.

I had a few problems with the book even though I liked it. One is that it is dated. At page 139 the author states "Decisions are made by men." If this were an isolated incident of focusing on men to the exclusion of women, then I would have let it slide. However, there are numerous references indicating that the book was written as though only men are leaders/executives.

Another problem I had with the book was that the author was telling the reader what he thinks it takes to be "effective," and the organization of his book was not all that effective in making his points. The narrative format dragged out the message. I would like to have seen a better introduction as to what to expect from the book. I would have liked the main body of the book to be structured more in an outline style. And I would have liked a conclusion that reiterated the introduction and tied the main body of the book together. He failed to do this in my opinion.

Early in the book the author tells us that being an effective executive must to be learned. Well, ok - now tell me something I don't know. There was no need to talk about the need for learning - everything a person does has to be learned at some time or another. See the titles of Chapter 1 and the Conclusion to see what I am talking about. Those sections of the book should be renamed and rewritten to make the book more coherent.

I would have enjoyed the book more if it had only four points rather than five. The first two points in the book seem to me to really be just one. Leaders are hired to add value to the company that hires them, and they need to understand what they are hired to do. Clearly these two concepts are so intertwined that they should have been discussed as one point.
