It may seem self-indulgent for King to make his protagonist a writer of romantic suspense. King sounded a bit defensive on the promotional tape his publisher sent reviewers. Wambaugh was a cop, and he writes about cops, King says. You have to write about what you know, he goes on, just like he writes about Maine. 

There are many themes and mysteries in this book. Some of my favorites are the ideas concerned with recreational reading. King and his editor both suggest that this book owes a lot to Daphne du Maurier's Rebecca. So not surprisingly, it is a ghost story. With some fictional monsters, like vampires or zombies or what ever, our suspension of disbelief in order to enjoy the story may involve considerable effort. But ghosts? For anyone who has ever experienced the loss of a loved one, it is almost impossible not to believe in ghosts. An interesting fact that King's character encounters constantly is that women in this country read more than men. Men characters in the book, when they meet the author, always say something like "You are my wife's favorite writer." 

Another story that is referred to frequently is "Mars is Heaven" by Ray Bradbury. I love this story, even more so because it is part of a cycle of stories which Bradbury wrote known as The Martian Chronicles. I am a bit concerned about King's use of the story here, because he summarizes it a bit abruptly, and it is a tale which relies on a surprise ending, so it would benefit readers to find a copy of The Martian Chronicles and read that 
first, before reading Bag Of Bones. I believe "Mars is Heaven" is the original title, and the title that was used in several anthologies many years ago. It would be hard for readers to find it with that title now, however, as I think it was published as "The Third Expedition" in The Martian Chronicles. 

Bag of Bones, simply summarized, involves a popular writer who's wife dies unexpectedly. Soon, he finds himself griped with a paralyzing writer's block. He flounders through his life, in the course of tying to put things back together, and finally visits their summer house in a tiny village which he has avoided since his wife's death, because of the feeling that it was mainly her place. It is here that he begins to encounter various spirits. Not to mention a young widow and her three year old Shirley Temple-sweet daughter. He soon becomes romantically involved with the widow as he tries to protect them from a rich and evil step father. He begins to unravel secrets that his dead wife has kept from him, which mysteriously involve the history of their summer house and the surrounding community. King conjures enormous suspense and finally resolves the plot with some rather violent incidents and horrible revelations. 

I know everyone will be annoyed by my nitpicking, but one bag of bones in the plot is "dissolved" almost instantaneously with a strong solution of lye. I just have to point out that lye isn't very suitable for dissolving bones, as it is an alkaline. A strong acid would have worked better, quicker. King mentions in his promotional tape that he doesn't like doing research, but someone should have been able to point this out. 

As I've mentioned, one of the interesting things about this book is the thoughts about recreational reading. Toward the end, King's character deplores violence, even fictional violence like the killings which are frequently the basis of murder mysteries, and by extension part of the violent conclusion of this book. I enjoy analysis of mysteries and detective stories, and I have always wondered why, exactly, murders seem to be a necessary part of a large group of entertaining, memorable stories. I share a bit of the uneasiness that King expresses here. Overall, I think fictional violence is part of a mechanism that writers use to stress the characters they create
