Sharon McCone is back in the 23rd series novel by Marcia Muller. McCone's detective agency has grown and life looks good, until good fortune takes a dive. 

Julia Rafael, one of the more interesting characters Muller has introduced in this series, takes center stage as she is arrested for credit-card fraud. Rafael is near the completion of her investigator apprenticeship under McCone's leadership, and a former client from a case Rafael worked accuses her of stealing his credit card. 

The client in question is Alex Aguilar, an up and coming political figure in the San Francisco area, who became popular for his goodwill project to provide job training to the out-of-work. 

Rafael's less than above-board past and smart-aleck mouth and attitude leave her friends and employer wondering, did she do it? And when some packages bearing Rafael's name are delivered to the mailroom beneath the detective agency, McCone is forced to consider the possibility that they've all been conned. 

In one crashing moment, McCone's agency is in danger of being fined and ultimately closed down. Who better to investigate the case than McCone herself, who has the most at stake? 

She could use her long-time lover, Hy Ripinsky's help and support, but by calling him, she must answer his marriage proposal. But she doesn't know what her answer will be and prefers not to explore her resistance too deeply. 

A visit to Aguilar's neighbors reveals that the man has a very different faade than the one publicly seen. He's a rather angry, rude, obnoxious man and he recently had a known felon as a house guest. 

But all leads lead to nowhere and the stakes continue to rise as bodies start dropping and McCone's nephew is shot at; then Julia Rafael is critically wounded. 

Cryptic messages are targeted at McCone and they hold the key to the shooter. But will they clear Julia's name? 

Continuing a series runs the risk of repeated storylines, but Muller has not succumbed to this common pitfall. Kudos to Muller for escaping that trap.
