Those who read CRIME AND PUNISHMENT by Dostoevsky often approach it thinking that it is standard detective story, sort of a Russian Sherlock Holmes. What they discover almost from the first is that the identity of the criminal is revealed, so this is not a novel of suspense or of a brilliant police detective. The focus they further learn is not on the "crime" of the title, nor is is very much on the "punishment" either. Instead, in the endless self-rationalizations of the murderer-protagonist Raskolnikov, they learn Dostoevski squarely places dramatic interest on an uneasy stasis between Raskolnikov's motive for the killing of two women and his need to suffer as atonement for those killings.

In order to draw the reader into the mind and plot, Dostoevski needed to ensure the primacy of his theme of the need for obsessive suffering. He accomplishes this by centering the story on the murder of the two women. Everything in the story either leads up to or follows it. The reader quickly learns a great deal of information so that by the end of the first few chapters, he has placed himself in the shoes and the mind of Raskolnikov. Ironically, although Raskolnikov tells the reader that his motivation was no more than to see if he could place himself so godlike above the law that he not fear the consequences of that law, the reader learns, slowly and painfully as does Raskolnikov, that the real motivation is not what he tells himself so bluntly. Does Raskolnikov kill for the money? To eliminate what he sees as social parasites that society would benefit from in their removal? Or can there be other reasons, hidden even from him? Complicating his constant self-examination as to motive lay Dostoevski himself. As a writer, Dostoevski was concerned for the salvation of the Russian soul, one that he saw as threatened by a western reliance on rational pragmatism that, in criminal matters in any case, required a convincing and single rationale that could totally explain and explicate any crime. Such an approach might work in Western democracies, but the Russian soul needed a call for order and justice that transcended logic and reason. This call was historically rooted in "rodina," an almost mystical love for the Russian motherland. And for one to gain this heightened sense of unity with Russian soil and Russian values, one had to suffer to expiate crime. Thus the need for Raskolnikov not only to suffer, but first he had to earn the right to suffer. The crime is then seen as less important than the punishment, both of which are ultimately weighed as still less important than any needed suffering. When Raskolnikov can endure no further suffering, he confesses, and his confession is proper expiation for his crime. His punishment of a lengthy prison term in Siberia is almost anti-climactic. He will emerge from prison a man who has learned that the act of sin can lead  the way to redemption for that sin but only if one pays the price before the jury returns with a verdict. In CRIME AND PUNISHMENT, Dostoevski makes this point as starkly as anyone else has.   
