Here is an overview of all the short novels in this collection:
Robin Hobb:Her prior works were definately a whole lot better, but not too bad.It was mildly menotenous and pretty sad, but it had some worth.
George R.R. Martin: I don't know how this story compares to A Game of Thrones and the rest because I haven't read them, but I thought it was pretty mediocre. No magic or anything appears in it, and the whole plot is pretty insignificant. I liked the characters, but I didn't really care about what was going on. Yet it did not turn me away from the possibility of trying out some of Martin's books some day.
Orson Scott Card:Card is a science fiction writer and as far as I am concerned does not belong in this collection. I *loved* Ender's Game, but his whole Alvin the Maker series' plot doesn't really hold together. Honestly, an alternate history with folklore magic incorporated in it? How crazy is that?
Diana Gabaldon:Just not my type, but I know lots of other people like her, so I won't discourage anyone to read her.
Robert Silverberg:Pretty good, went through some important historical events in Majipoor, not quite as good as his story in the previous Legends, but still not all that bad.I encourage you to try Lord Valentine's Castle, its REALLY good.
Tad Williams:Interesting, but I haven't read Otherland so I couldn't really understand everything. Nevertheless worth reading.
Anne McCaffrey:Just like Card,McCaffrey is a science fiction author. She doesn't belong in this collection. The story wasn't spectacular either, you have to have read Pern to get what's going on.
Raymond E. Feist:GREAT. It was exciting,it went through important historical events in Midkemia, and it had a character you cared enough about to keep on reading. It brought back happy memories of reading Magician.
Elizabeth Haydon:Also really good. It got me interested in reading her other books. It was as enchanting and ominous as any fantasy story needs to be.
Neil Gaiman:Terrible. I hope to God that American Gods and Neverwhere are better than this story. It's utterly boring, has a pretty unappealing character, and doesn't even have a magical fantasy feel to it. Stupid.
Terry Brooks:Pretty good, however, you need to have read Shannara, like me, to understand everything that's going on, and the topic isn't the best thing he could have written about. It shouldn't discourage you from reading Shannara, because it really is a GREAT series. Yet overall pretty good
