Having followed the Terri Schiavo case, including days spent at Terri's hospice vigil, I delayed reading this book, thinking that there wasn't much more for me to grasp about the matter and that I already knew where I stood.  But I was wrong.  FIGHTING FOR DEAR LIFE is packed with informative and thought-provoking detail that very much clarified and deepened my understanding of the law, bioethics, this case in particular, and the Christian duty of social/political action in general.  And beyond this practical effect, the high quality of writing made the book a can't-put-it-down pleasure to read.  It is organized; confident yet humble in tone; full of heart, relevance, faith and inspiration; and just downright gripping in its illuminating details. For example, Gibbs describes a bizarre sort of mystical "soul speak" that Terri's nemesis, Michael Schiavo's attorney engaged in and wrote about in his book Litigation as Spiritual Practice.  Then there are the piercing observations, such as the "inexcusable paradox" of force-feeding felons, namely one of the DC Snipers, while force-starving Terri, an innocent.
  
Other appreciated book features include side boxes such as "Timeline of Events: 1990-2003," "Timeline of Events:  2004-2005," "What Can Be Done to Save Others," and "Polls, Politicians and Positions."  Additionally, Gibbs includes copies of Terri's Law and S.686-the Act for the relief of the parents of Theresa Marie Schiavo, and also shares a sample Designation of Health Care Surrogate Form.

FIGHTING FOR DEAR LIFE both informs the mind and touches the heart in a way that's not fleeting, but potentially transformational.  And in that, it honors Terri, her parents and siblings, and everyone that supported their efforts.  I'm still a bit struck that the book impacted me in a bigger way than I'd imagined possible.  Though I had anticipated that the book would focus more on Gibbs himself, in actuality it caused me to contemplate Terri, lovers of righteousness, lovers of self, God, good and evil, and the state of our nation as well as my own soul.  Only after I read the book did I notice the title, whose key words now seem so perfectly chosen:  "fighting," "dear," "life," "untold," "Terri," "means" (for there is meaning), and "us" --I would just add that its meaning "for" us includes meaning "about" us.  There is a nobility and edifying character about this book that my groped words just don't adequately convey
