While there were some stories that didn't particularly excite me some of them were perfect and exactly how short stories should be. Here are my reviews:

Cream of the Crop:
3. Leaving a Light On- I loved it. It reminds you that on some golden afternoons, you can still feel like anything can happen and anything can change. Just read it.  
6. The Truth About Nigel- Jennifer Weiner's contribution. It's pretty good, she never disappoints. It's about a woman who thinks she finally found a man, who turns out not to be the man she thinks he is at all. 
8. The Bamboo Confessions- Lauren Weisberger's contribution [The Devil Wears Prada and Everyone Worth Knowing]. It's a good story about a woman who uproots herself. This story reminds of the quotation [this isn't exact] "Sometimes the only way to know yourself is if you go some place where you don't have to be anyone else.'
10. Andromeda on the Street of Ducklings- This story is beautiful to me. It's about loving, losing and dealing with it. Some parts made me want to cry. 
14. Just Visiting- Great. It is exactly what we all wish would happen to us, if we left home in search of a new life. 
15. Forty Days- We should all try doing what this woman does- for Forty Days she tries all of the things she never tried before and ends up with better results than she could have ever dreamed of. 

Middle Ground:
1. A Day in the Life of My Great Brit Book Tour- Doesn't do it for me. I don't really agree with the observations of the other characters' about the main character. But it wasn't horrible. 
4. Moving Day- Pretty good. I like the beginning and the narration. It's about a woman who finds out that her finacee' isn't as straight as he seems. It's by the woman who used to write for Sex and the City [Cindy Chupack] and you can really see similarities in the writing style. 
7. Voodoo Dolls, C-cups and Eminem- Just okay. Not the worst, not the best. But it is more of a sisters story than love story or a finding yourself story. 
11. Bad Manners- Bad girls rock. She dates a jerk, dumps him and acts like a bad girl- you go girl!
12. The Two-Month Itch- Fairly entertaining. It's about a woman who never seems to keep a man around longer than two months. While, I prefer to, I know some women out there who suffer from the same syndrome. 
13. I Know a Woman- Eh. It doesn't make me laugh or think too much but it did make me a little sad. Since, it evoked some emotion from me, it's placed in the Middle Ground category. And there are moments in it, that are pretty good.

Bottom Rung:
2. Five- It really didn't do it for me at all. It's about a woman who is convinced that her 5th husband is the one for her. Kind of sad and the main character is a bit narcisstic and I can tell that at the end of the story, the author wanted to make the main character have an revelation but for some reason I just didn't really believe it. It could have been too predictable but I am unsure of what exactly turned me off of this story. 
5. Yoga Babe- I just didn't get it. I know there was a point in the story somewhere about the perfect pretty girl being annoyed with overweight girl being more apt at Yoga than she but I never got the point. 
9. Amore- The ending confused me. I understood the main character and her obssession with finding and marrying a foreign man but I don't really know what exactly happened at the end. I think I may understand why but not how. For some people, it may be obvious but it wasn't to me. 
16. The Uncertainty Principle- Definitely just didn't do it for me. I kind of wanted to kick the main character in the butt a little bit. 
17. Small Worlds- The ending was too vague for me. Again, I know there was supposed to be some great epiphany at the end but it just didn't get conveyed to me at all. It's about a woman who gets stood up by the man she was going to have an affair with. And it just doesn't do it for me in the slightest.  
 
