To paraphrase an observation Whitehead made over and over, something wonderful happened between the 8th and 5th century BCE in Greece.  Why the circumstances came together in such a way as to produce what we glibly know  as "classical Greece" no one may adequately explain, but Snell's  book makes the quest for understanding pleasant reading and interesting (if  dated, in places) intellectual fare.

This side of modernity, it is easy  to pan this book (written in the war years early in the 20th century) as  antiquated modern humanism, and indeed it does tend to go on and on about  the "individual" (often in isolation from the community) and the  genius of the Greek mind, perhaps ignoring that there were other cultures  before and after 5th century Greece.  But precisely these throwbacks are  the book's greatest strengths, when the context of its writng is taken into  consideration.  In pre- and wartime-Germany, an unfortunate interpretation  of Hegel's dialectical phenomenology allowed an entire intellectual culture  a collective amnesia about the worth and power of the individual, in favor  of the State as fulfillment of the "outworking of Spirit."  For  Hegel, this State was Prussia; post-Weimar Germany, however, interpreted it  differently.  But Snell does not use his book as an anachronistic  justification for German superiority as heir to the best of classical  Europe, as so many authors of his time certainly did.  Rather, he points  out that the "discovery" of the individual mind, acting in  concert with others and pointed towards "the good" as  benevolently seen by Socrates, was the greatest achievement of classical  Greece bequeathed not only to Europe but to all the world.  That Snell  could bring out this aspect of Greek thought, and emphasize it, speaks well  of him and the book.

The small volume is great reading for "cultural  literacy," since to breathe in the West (now, almost everywhere,  culturally) is to breathe air exhaled by Greek writers long ago.  There are  serious problems with this, no doubt.  But coming to terms with Western  canon means coming to terms with Greek literature and philosophy.  This  book helps one do just that
