Hearken back those of you who remember introductory literature classes and lectures on the difference between "story" and "plot." "Point Counter Point is rather short on story, but it's absolutely dripping in plot. Not much happens that could be easily summarized on a book cover, but so much happens in the way of character development and psychological insight that the results are nearly mind-boggling. How Huxley could develop such a large cast of characters so thoroughly is one of the greatest testaments I can make to his ability as an artist, and for those who love to sink their teeth into complex characterizations and psychological motivations, this book will have you frothing at the mouth.

One should read "Point Counter Point" not for the destination, but for the journey. The ending is eerily and disquietingly ambiguous; Huxley is not as interested in passing judgements on his characters as he is in illustrating how complicated the act of living is and how there is likely no one approach to life that will adequately prepare one for its tragedies and twists of fate. A somewhat cynical point of view perhaps, and certainly not comforting to those in search of the big answers to life's big questions, but very realistic. There's hardly a page of this novel that didn't strike a chord with me and put perfectly into words either an idea I have myself or a character trait that I can instantly recognize in someone else. 

Though published nearly 80 years ago, this novel feels like it could have been written yesterday (some period differences aside, of course) so relevant do these characters' conflicts, escapades, fears and desires seem. Huxley's book is a reminder that 80 years isn't all that long in the course of human events, nor really is 200, 300 or 400 years. Despite superficial advancements in technology and science, the fundamental questions of being have been mankind's greatest preoccupation for centuries and will likely go on being so. 

This is a marvelous novel and perfect for a book club or literature class, as the food for debate it offers are virtually endless.

