	In The Future and Its Enemies, Virginia Postrel describes a new way of thinking called dynamism.  While it has many critics, dynamism promotes a life everyone can benefit from by encouraging competition, criticism, feedback, and trial-and-error learning.  Here I will give a description of her book and how it relates to the Technological Project and the idea of non-scarcity.
	One of the strongest critics of dynamism is stasis.  Stasis creates a world that is strongly regulated and planned, and gives people little room for movement.  They like to control things and make rules and processes generic, or have a "one best way" for everything.  They favor government control and do not foster innovation, technology, or creativity.  There are two types of stasists: reactionaries and technocrats.  The former wants to reverse change; the latter wants to control it.  Both of these feel dynamism is a reckless viewpoint and come together in an effort to combat it.  
	Dynamism, however, offers an inspiring alternative. It embraces technology because it allows people to be flexible and inventive.  By having limited rules and open processes, people are free to innovate and learn through trial-and-error.  Where stasists favor a set goal and controlling the path to that goal, dynamists let people achieve their own goals, while providing gentle guidance.  A stasis future is set, while a dynamic future is open-ended.  This can best be illustrated by Postrel's example of the Clinton/Gore reelection campaign of 1996.  They described a "bridge to the twenty-first century".  While this comment may sound like the candidates are in favor of technology and are "forward-looking", they are truly technocratic stasists.  As Postrel explains, the comment implies there is a point A, the present, and a point B, the future, and that these points are connected by a bridge.  The points infer both a definite point in time now and a set goal to be reached by the population as a whole.  The bridge infers that there is one and only one way of achieving this single common goal.  The people as a group can only get from set point A to set point B by crossing a bridge.  This is the plan and there is no room for deviation or change.  The plan was designed by officials to be followed by all, with no input from the people.  This scenario truly reflects the ideals of the stasis belief.
	This example also illustrates the concept that there is no "one best way".  While stasists believe in a planned, uniform way for everyone to do things, dynamists believe the exact opposite; they believe in evolution.  Each person has his or her own dream.  When people all work together through a "central organizing principle", they can create an open-ended future through learning and experimentation.  A plan is not necessary because when everyone works together, a solution will surface.  
One of the keys to a dynamic society is learning.  Dynamists support trial-and-error learning which means people are free to experiment and then learn from the experimentation, whether the results are good or bad.  While learning is key, criticism, competition, and feedback are essential.  People are free to voice their opinions when they think something will not work, can offer their own thoughts or suggestions, and can come up with their own experiments that compete with others.  Dynamists except failure as a natural and essential part of the learning and experimenting process.  Each person is independent and autonomous with different values, experiences, and lifestyles.  These differences come together to create new ideas and learning opportunities.
While dynamists believe in freedom and decentralized experimentation, they also recognize that rules are important.  However, rules should not be complicated and government should not have as strong a presence.  Laws must be broad and used as guiding principles.  This broad approach allows people to act in their own best interest instead of government making a "one size fits all" rule system.  It lets people choose their own futures.  The rules merely state guidelines; they do not force people to act or think a certain way.  The unobtrusive rules still allow for trial-and-error learning.  When people are left free to partake in their own experiments, without boundary and authority, their experiences are more enriching.  Postrel lists five principles for deciding upon rules:
1.	Allow individuals to act on their own knowledge.
2.	Apply to simple, generic units and allow them to combine in many different ways.
3.	Permit credible, understandable, enduring, and enforceable commitments.
4.	Protect criticism, competition, and feedback.
5.	Establish a framework within which people can create nested, competing frameworks or more specific rules.

These rules are made in general terms so that they can later be built upon, allowing for flexibility.  Institutions are free to establish their own rules that are more specific to their needs.  This rule system allows people to decide which rules they want to have and which they want to follow.  This, in turn, promotes competition, both among institutions and the rules themselves.  This competition among rules also allows people to determine which rules are good and beneficial and eliminate rules that do not work.   
Dynamists are firm believers in the process to achieving an end.  They believe we should look to the past and improve on it to create our future.  We can improve on our past through criticism and feedback.  This allows us to change what we do wrong and enhance it.  By doing this, we can progress into the future.  This constant need for improvement creates an "infinite series".    An infinite series is created by everyone pursuing their own dreams and creating their own futures.  Each person is improving on their pasts and learning from their failures.  This process is what creates progress.  Since nothing will ever be perfect, we will always seek to improve, which makes this process infinite.  Whenever a problem is discovered, people innovate to come up with a solution.  Our demand for constant innovation will lead to constant improvement.  People's ideas can build upon and combine with other people's ideas to create optimal innovations and solutions.  The need for improvement can also be related to an article by Julian Simon in which he discusses the idea of non-scarcity.  He feels that, contrary to popular belief, resources are not finite because people will constantly innovate to either create a new resource, discover a way to recycle the resource, or find ways to improve the usages and retrieval methods of the resource.  If, like Postrel's dynamism claims, people are constantly seeking improvements, then they will seek to improve the usage of resources.
Not only do dynamic people have a need to innovate and improve, but they also yearn for knowledge.  Knowledge can be achieved from both trial-and-error experiments or from the process of people sharing their knowledge with others.  Postrel compares knowledge to an elm tree: "a broad trunk of shared experience and general facts, splitting into finer and finer limbs, branches, twigs, and leaves.  The surface area is enormous, the twigs and leaves often distant from each other.  Knowledge is dispersed, shared through a complex system of connections."
	People should be allowed to be autonomous and to have fun, for this is when the generation of ideas can occur.  One way to do this is through play.  Dynamism supports people who can find play in their work; i.e. people who have jobs doing what they are truly excited and passionate about and find their work fun.  When people enjoy what they do, they are more inclined to come up with innovative ideas.  People who play look at their experiences from a different viewpoint and use this to improve and create new experiences.  Since people typically do not play independently, play fosters the combination of different ideas and experiences that create even more greater ideas and innovations.
	The Technological Project (TP) can be summed up in the idea of dynamism.  The TP can be defined as the control of nature for human benefit.  First, the TP needs innovation, which can best be achieved through a free market economy.  Like dynamism, a free market economy fosters competition and specialization, which forces people to be innovative so they can succeed in the world.  A free market economy must have rules, in this case called a rule of law.  This set of rules, like dynamism, allows people to pursue their own dreams and interests with little governmental and legal interference.  Lastly, in order for the TP to work, it needs autonomous people.  These people rule themselves, are self-disciplined, and do not want government interference.  They can have and pursue their own interests while not conflicting with the interests and pursuits of others.  In essence, the TP needs dynamists in order for the system to work.  The similarities between dynamism and the TP are vast: both want little government interference and general, broad rules; both need innovation and continuous improvement; and both require independent, autonomous, driven people in order to succeed.  The dynamist idea of having many different people's journeys and processes come together to create progress, innovation, and improvement fits perfectly with the TP.  Dynamism and the TP allow people to recognize their own goals and pursue their own interests with little governmental interference and without interfering with others' interests.  Lastly, Postrel quotes Russell Kirk, "It never proposes a specific goal; it initiates the infinite series." This goes for both dynamism and the TP.

