As a sophomore in college, I found this book to be somewhat challenging to read - mainly because I had never read a book that went this in-depth into the little details and arguments of our culture in order to prove its downward spiral. This book may have been challening, but it was very worth reading. It covers so many different aspects of our culture, and covers it from many different perspectives. The kinds of examples that Berman uses in order to prove his arguments, are the things that we as americans are exposed to everyday - Things such as: Movies, books, our Economic standings, and historical references. 

It seems as though the purpose of his book is, that with some hope, to turn our culture around by increasing awareness within the American people. By increasing this awareness, Berman will be fighting the kind of diseases that he sees as plaguing our culture. But there is also a problem with that kind of hope, and it is something that he addresses in his book as well. The problem lies in the fact that there are probably some people out there (people that he even mentions in his book) that could either care less about what he is saying is the problem, or just don't see the problem. Not everyone will see the "spiritual death" that he speaks about (I don't see all of it), and not everyone will even see that there's even a problem present in our culture. When it comes down to it, through this book, he will either make a difference in the way people view America, or he won't. 

For part of my assignment, I had to prove or disprove some of the facts used in his arguments. From all of my research, and all the types of fieldwork that I took part in, I can say that much of his information is very accurate - So if you should decide to read this book, trust that Berman makes a sincere effort to not be misleading in any way. Like I mentioned before, the book was somewhat challenging to read - - But when I think about it, there is some irony to that. It's only fitting that he write a book that's challenging and forces people to think - because he knows that in order to turn the culture around, people need to be challenged and presented with information that will seem foreign at first. If you a desire to read this book and then give up so soon that you can't get past the first 5-10 pages, then I believe you have just proven his point.
