Small-town life, small-time ambitions are drawn with loving and precise detail in this admirable novel. Richard Russo, thank you, you've invited me to contemplate the many tiny and ironic failures of my own life under the epic rubric of the novel -- you have made me believe that, precisely enough observed, such tiny failures and successes might matter to other readers. You have given my own life a kind of heft it lacked for me previously. For this gift, "Empire Falls" -- in my book and that of other readers -- richly deserved its Pulitzer Prize. 

Still (and I won't give the ending away), Russo sets up all his characters with a kind of warm and comic understatement, and then, wow, he subjects them to a shockingly violent and disturbing ending. Two sweet and calm protagonists are sitting in a hospital room, discussing the weather, basically, while they hear the sound of ambulance sirens and emergency doctors outside their room, but they haven't a clue as to the horror that awaits them.

The proportions do feel awry. In a Jim Lehrer newshour interview, Russo was asked, Did you mean to do this, and his reply was that he knew some violence was coming in the plot, but he didn't know where it would come from or who would be its victims. I can conclude from this only that he wanted to subject this humane set of characters -- the fry cook, the busboy, the hostess of the Empire Grill, their sons and daughter, their estranged husbands and wives -- to the ultimate test. Who will survive?

This is the question of the novel, but it didn't need to be. A comedy of manners morphs into an Elizabethan tragedy, with all the associated blood and gore. A warm and understated story is put under the microscope of the ultimate test. Thus, the final pages of the book feel forced. Still, *Empire Falls* is well worth reading. Even its flaws are clarifying and revealing. Russo is my find of the year for a great novelist. Check out "Straight Man" as well -- an even more appealing and less apocalyptic book.
