Being one of the most highly regarded figures in the Philippines, Dr. Jose Rizal is admired as a symbol of Filipinos.  His books are well-read in the Philippines, and have been very influential in the history of the Philippines.  If nothing else, this book should be read for the historical impact is had and is having on the country.  Here are some thoughts on the book.

(1) Though it was written over a century ago, I think the society and mindset of the individual has changed little.  Having only lived in the Philippines for about a month, I still recognized many things in the book that seem to be true today.  The love of the cockfight, the importance of the family, the corruption of the government, the friendliness of the people, the syncretism of religion, the superstition, and the importance of social status all still appear to be significant parts of the culture today.

(2) Being such a highly esteemed book in the Philippines, it surprised me that it was so anti-Catholic.  I truly don't understand or know about the Catholic church today in the Philippines, but this novel expressed a deep resentment toward this religious institution that apparently abused and took advantage of the people of the Philippines.  If this was really true, how has Catholicism survived in the Philippines?

(3) The story was great!  The plot was interesting, the two heroes of the story (Iberra and Elias) were fun to root for, and the villains of the story were easy to hate (basically the Catholic church).

(4) There were too many characters.  I was constantly confusing the different residents of San Diego, and these characters were not well developed.  In the first part of the book, I could not keep the different Fathers strait.  And in the last part of the book I could not keep the majors and the old women strait.  

The book was great and I would recommend it to anyone interested in the Philippines.  I think it paints a picture of the culture that can only be painted in narrative.  A culture book, or an anthropology book cannot express what Jose Rizal expressed in this novel.  I can't wait to read El Filebustermo
