"The Inferno" is part one of Dante's Divine Comedy, a medieval Christian poem using a Terza Rima (3 line rhyme) scheme, originally written in Italian.  Dante lived around 1300 and many of the characters damned to hell were prominent figures of his time in Florence and Italy as a whole.  Dante makes use of illustrative language and epic prose to deliver an image of hell, according to medieval Christian thought.  Concurrently, Dante also delivers poignant criticism against the corrupt Catholic church and his political rivals of Florence.  Dante's great reverence for Rome is apparent, as there are no prominent Roman emperors who populate Dante's vision of Hell.

The Nine Circles of Hell represent a geographical map of Hell, as the deeper into the abyss one goes, the more heinous the sin that led to the eternal damnation.  However, it seems as if the punishment fits the crime, as the sinners are dealt a punishment suitable for their sin.  When reading this, I can't help but think the "Ironic Punishment Division" in the Simpson's Halloween Special when Homer is forced to eat an endless supply of donuts, but I digress.

Dante's overall themes illustrate how evil is the antithesis of God's love, for those who are most defile God and his love and punished the worst.  Indeed, the worst sinner of all, Judas Iscariot, is being gnawed by Lucifer himself.  It's interesting to note how Dante rates the sins, as sodomy is worse than murder, and deceit is worse than both of them.  I suppose Dante is merely echoing the theological theories of the time.

This book certainly isn't for everyone.  I suspect that theological students and those who appreciate medieval poems, like Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, would be most akin to taking up this book.  The translation uses old style English to retain as much authenticity, and can be quite tedious at times to decipher.  Also, there are many references to Italian politics, as well as mythological creatures.  One not familiar with these (and who is adept in 13th century Florentine politics?) will gloss over these passages.

Overall, Dante delivers a daunting and frightening version of hell in this literary masterpiece.  These, along with "Purgatory" and "Paradise" (which I have not read), comprise the "Divine Comedy" and has made Dante a literary legend
