The American counterculture of the 1960s took on various forms and strangely some of those differences seemed to depend of geography. There was quite a difference in style been the hip culture of the Bay Area as opposed to that of New York City. One thing this book does is spot light the counter culture of New York during the 1960s through the eyes of those who lived it.

These were the days when the movers and shakers freely mixed with  the bohemian crowd.

 The book is although arranged in a type of chronology of the life of Edie Sedgwick.

 It also does an interesting thing in not only focusing on Edie but the two most important men in her life: her father and Andy Warhol. In that way it is an interesting psychological study.

Edie came from a family that was the closest thing to aristocracy in America. But by the  time the Sedgwick family  gets to Edie's generation is has become a very dysfunctional one.
And although the book does a good job chronicling the 60s is also is a tale of a life tragically doomed and  the pace it follows through person accounts reads  much like a Greek tragedy while the chorus of friends  and lovers each tell the tale we get the strong feeling, even if we did not know a thing about Edie before we picked up the book, how the story will end.

 Much of the book is about (as well as told by) the denizens of Andy Warhol's "Factory" and it gives a lot of insight into its culture. I think for most of us it is strange world and  its characters are not always shown in the best light but each of the people interviewed for the book give their perspective usually in a fairly dispassionate way.

It is a book about many things: dysfunctional families, fame, the art world, Warhol, people morally set a drift, the counterculture and a butterfly  squished  on the automobile grill of life.
It actually covers quite a bit of ground on a number of levels and whether you find  some of the characters distasteful or not between the lines there is quite a bit said in this book about human nature and American culture.

Included are black and white photos that help us come to know the major players.

It is an interesting book that is hard to put down.

Recommended

Jim Connell   "Hallstatt Prince
