

Like all of the recent A Series of Unfortunate Events books, "The Slippery Slope" contains a story that gives us readers a few cryptic answers, introduces new questions, and contains increasingly desperate orphans solving puzzles by unconventional means, all told by a strange author who enjoys random comparisons and explanations.  The plot of this book is different, as in Sunny is separated from her other two siblings, the story is divided into two points of view, and the chapters trade off every so-often; some chapters follow Klaus and Violet while they devise a plan to save their sister and discover the mysterious secret of VFD, while others show Sunny coping with being in Olaf's clutches and trying to become a spy.  This book is an interesting addition to the series, to say the least.

It must be said that the beginning of this book is dry.  Yes, dry.  Dry, a phrase which here means "boring," a term which here means "while I already have read the first nine books out of the twelve I have already purchased, I almost decided to put this book down mid-read."  This is because this series has become quite lengthy, so the first two chapters are packed with back story which the common readers of the series are all-too-familiar with.  While it is understandable that Mr. Snicket must fill in unfortunate readers who haven't read the other books in A Series of Unfortunate Events, there must be a different way to do it then the way it's done.  Show, Mr. Snicket, don't tell.  I must say that the book does pick up nicely after the third chapter though, and quickly became one of the most attention-holding books out of all ten I have read so far, a phrase which here means "I finished this book in one day while it took me two or, perhaps, more to read the rest, despite the fact that I almost gave up on the book after chapter two, which I now realized would have been a bad idea, because enduring a little bit of `dryness' is all right, seeing as the other eleven chapters which were quite good."

7/1
