This first book in Anthony Trollope's Barchester series introduces us to Septimus Harding, a beloved clergyman at Barchester Cathedral who also serves as the Warden of Hiram's Hospital, a nursing home/almshouse facility for twelve elderly men. The support for both the Warden's position as well as the twelve men in the almshouse is provided for from a legacy left to the Church centuries ago. 

As the story opens, questions are being raised that the Warden has been receiving a disproportionately high amount of the income, while the men living in the hospital are receiving a pittance. A young surgeon and local firebrand, John Bold, is enlisted by some of the townspeople to head an investigation into the matter. Factions arise between those wishing to maintain the status quo and those who want the Church to do something to fix the financial abuses in its system. 

Mr. Harding is a man caught in the middle. He is a gentle and kindly individual, and a faithful and devoted friend to the twelve men of Hiram's Hospital. He has always just accepted his income as a matter of course but now finds himself deeply troubled and doing a great deal of soul-searching when he realizes that perhaps these men have indeed been treated unfairly. And even though he is determined to do what is right no matter what the costs to himself, many of the twelve elderly men will turn their backs on him. 

The situation is further complicated by the fact that the two leaders of the opposing factions are both personally connected to the Warden; John Bold is the suitor of Mr. Harding's youngest daughter, Eleanor, and the defender of the Church's position, the formidable Archdeacon Grantly, is married to Mr. Harding's eldest daughter, Susan. 

This is a lovely and thought-provoking story about a man who suddenly finds his position in the community and his cherished way of life under attack. The ending is not a happy one, but it's appropriate. Septimus Harding is an especially endearing and admirable character and I'm looking forward very much to reading more about him in the second book of this series, Barchester Towers. 

*I would just like to add a comment about this Modern Library Classics edition. There are some very good explanatory notes included in the back of the book, but there are absolutely no numbers or even asterisks in the text directing you to them. I don't know if this was intentional or not, but it was very inconvenient and often very aggravating. I like to look back and read the notes as I go along and in this instance I never knew beforehand what term or phrase might be explained in the notes and ended up having to mark the text myself. You might want to look into purchasing a different edition.
