T.J. Painted Horse's wife, Denise, is dead, an apparent suicide.  Further investigation reveals that she was murdered.  The obvious suspect, T.J., swears to his attorney Vicky Holden that he didn't do it, and she believes him.  Until she finds out that he's been cheating on Denise for quite some time, that Denise was thinking seriously about divorcing T.J., that his alibi is non-existent.  T.J. maintains that his enemies, the people on the rez who want some methane gas drilling sites allowed, killed Denise because they couldn't get to T.J.  This is a reasonable possibility, but not first on anyone's list.

At just about the same time that Denise is killed, Christine Nelson,the new curator at the local museum, disappears.  Is this a coincidence?  When her husband comes looking for her, the disappearance becomes ominous; her husband is a very controlling, very dangerous man with powerful friends.  

While investigating Denise's murder, and trying to protect her client, Vicky Holden uncovers some ties to a local politician.  Wyomin Senator Jaime Evans is getting ready to announce his bid for the presidency.  Evan's grandfather was married to an Arapaho, Bashful Woman.  She was killed during the photographing by Edward S. Curtis of a staged attack on an Arapaho village.  The Indians portraying the attackers were convicted of killing Bashful Woman, and hanged.  Since then, some descendants of Bashful Woman's father, Chief Sharp Nose, have died; their deaths have not all been from natural causes, the murders have not been solved.

Wife of Moon is a very well-written mystery.  Margaret Coel has written seven other books in this series.  This is the first one I've read.  There is obviously a lot of history between Vicky Holden and Father John O'Malley; while not knowing that history made me curious, it did not detract from the story.  The plotting is tight.  The characters, even when not particularly likeable, are believable.  I know about half-way through the book what the key to the story was, but not how it would be used, or where it would take me.  The interweaving of the back-story (from 1907) and the current events was seamless.  The historical details in the author's note at the end were interesting, and relevant.

All in all, this was a thoroughly enjoyable read.  I will add Margaret Coel's series to my list of "Stuff I Want to Read", and see if my local library has The Eagle Catcher in their collection.   I suggest that if you haven't already read Coel, and you like contemporary mysteries set in the southwest, with Native American protagonists, that you do the same.  
