Jack of Fables gets his own spin-off series! I have to admit, at first, I was sort of like, why? But, now I understand. It's because Jack kicks butt!  In case you don't know, Jack also goes by Jack of the Beanstalk, Jack B. Horner, Jack of the Tales, and apparently Jack Frost in colder climates.

When we last saw Jack in the Fables comics, he had become a huge player in the Hollywood scene, with fame, money and lots of girls, only to have it all taken away from him by the sheriff of Fabletown, The Beast (from Beauty and the Beast, of course).  Left to fend for himself, we meet up with Jack as he walks along a highway with the million dollars Beast let him keep.  Suddenly he is picked up with a strange woman and two bagmen (men who are, well, bags, it's weird I know) and taken to a place called The Golden Boughs Retirement community.  There he finds Goldilocks (missing from the Fables comics for awhile as well) and other various and sundry fable characters many of whom are very obscure.  Someone did their research!  Among them are Mother Goose, the Pathetic Fallacy, and a quick little guy called Sam.  There are also cameos by Dorothy, Tin Man, Scarecrow, Cowardly Lion, Toto, and many others.

There Jack meets a rather nefarious guy called Mr. Revise who runs The Golden Boughs.  Mr. Revise's mission is, apparently, imprison fairy tales until the world at large forgets about them, making them less magical.  Mr. Revise's sinister intent is to do away with them  and rid the world of magic forever

As I said before, I was surprised when they decided to spin-off Jack.  Now that I can see where the story is going, I totally understand.  This series looks to be completely separate from the Fables universe (no Adversary, none of the regulars from that comic) and has a great story going.  The parallels to our own world and the issues we face with  censorship are expertly addressed in the story arc with Mr. Revise and the Golden Boughs.  I can't wait to see where Bill Willingham and crew go with this in the next part of the series.

And, as always, the art was simply amazing, especially James Jean's beautiful covers. And, I would advise catching up on the Fables comics, not because this can't stand alone because I think it really can, but because they are just so fantastic they need to be read too!
