The bulk of this book is an absorbing study of Nazi occultism. Levenda contends that this was not an eccentricity dabbled in by a few of the high command but was in fact central to fascism. In his research he read reams of documents from the Nazi era in various archives, piles of bureaucratic letters, newspaper clippings, reports and other things, so he has gone directly to the source. In addition to his extensive research of a fascinating subject, he has a wry humor and very readable style.

The problem comes when he tries to convince the reader that there is still a worldwide Nazi occult conspiracy which could break out and start wreaking havoc any day. He documents the escapes and probable present whereabouts of various Nazi war criminals, but his attempts to show that they are secretly pulling the strings behind, for example, various small racist groups in Europe and America are unconvincing. His own accounts of meeting with some of these groups suggest that they are mere random collections of nutbars.

He discusses the Manson murders at length, apparently believing that because the Manson gang was racist and subscribed to a bizarre cosmology, their crimes support his theory of a lingering Nazi occult conspiracy, but he is unable to show any kind of connection to the Manson gang and, well, anything. In addition, late in the book he talks about some subjects that I know something about, and I caught quite a few mistakes, and as a former true crime buff, one of them was about the Manson murders. Levenda tries to bolster the racism-occultism connection by stating that Manson girl Sharon Tate was a member of Anton LaVey's Church of Satan. No doubt this was asserted in numerous sensationalist newspaper articles, but one would expect a man who spent untold hours reading Nazi-era bureaucratic red tape to check his facts better than that. The connection between Tate and LaVey is far more tenuous. Before she met Manson, she worked as a stripper. Once, her strip club decided to do a sort of horror theme show and had it choreographed by a local occultist named Anton LaVey. LaVey had not yet founded the Church of Satan, and in his youth had been a musician playing accompaniment for strippers, and so probably still had plenty of friends in the striptease industry. In her autobiography, Atkins, who became a born-again Christian in prison, claims that when they met LaVey gave her the creeps. The creepy feeling didn't stop her from playing her part in his horror strip skit, that of a vampire, a detail the newspapers would pounce on with relish after the murders. That was the extent of their association. She was never a member of the CoS. That I can catch him in a few mistakes which he could easily have better verified makes me wonder how seriously I can take the rest of his research, which is largely in languages I don't speak and buried in vaults that would take untold hours to dig through.

Another warning signal is Levenda's claims of anti-intellectual bias coupled with assertions that most Americans are not intellectual enough to suit Levenda. He spends several pages moaning about how ignorant Americans are about World War II and the Holocaust. At one point he says, if I may paraphrase, "According to a recent study, an appalling percentage of Americans have never heard of the Holocaust." Apparently the percentage wasn't as appalling as he wishes, or one imagines he would have shared the figure with us. In any case, I am frankly skeptical of his assertions. Maybe it's just that I don't spend much time talking to idiots, but I've yet to encounter an American who wasn't actually pretty knowledgeable about the whole thing. One feels he is talking through his hat so that he can make himself seem smarter by comparison with all those duffers who don't know what he does.

At one point, he complains that "all" governments, of every stripe, distrust intellectuals. According to him, in China intellectuals are suspected of being capitalists and in America intellectuals are suspected of being communists. Well, I'm an intellectual and I'm afraid I've just never seen any evidence of this institutional distrust of intellectuals he bemoans. This is the kind of thing people who think society isn't deferring to them enough whine about. Ironically, if the erudite Nazi occultists in his book are any indication, distrusting intellectuals is probably a very good idea.

Levenda says: "And those Americans for whom intellectual and cultural sophistication held certain attractions that could not be matched by Iowa corn country square dances or homespun Bible Belt homilies found themselves having more in common with the Hollywood image of the typical SS officer than with the type of American GI portrayed by, say, Frank Sinatra, John Wayne or Henry Fonda. As a certain, subtextual cultural identification with the SS began to take place among our basically intelligent but incompetently educated American youth it would not be long before political identification would occur... with unfortunate consequences." 

The problem is, he never gets around to telling us what these "unfortunate consequences" are. He talks at length about contemporary occultists, who are often exceptionally intelligent people, but doesn't even attempt to argue that they are racist or violent or in any other way dangerous. The racist groups he met with in his research sound by his own account like very stupid people. He basically suggests that sophisticated people might be inspired by classic war movies to adopt Nazism without being able to cite even one example of one who did.

And he's jumping to all sorts of unwarranted conclusions. For one thing, there are plenty of movies that portray elegant people in a positive light. Maybe not those being made nowadays, but thanks to AMC and TCM, and the BBC, hundreds of such movies are readily available.

Now, my own amusements tend toward classic jazz, German expressionism, and classic novels. I've just started to take an interest in the great works of ancient Greece. In short, I'm one of those he talks about who might "culturally identify" with the suave S.S. officer of movies. And yet, oddly enough I can't feel the disdain he assures me I should for "Iowa corn country square dances or homespun Bible Belt homilies". Indeed, one of my personal maxims, which I have verified many times through brutal experience, is that people who dislike country music are rarely to be trusted. I admire these things. My refined education allows me to see the value in them the more keenly. Those people I know who turn up their noses at "Iowa corn country square dances or homespun Bible Belt homilies" are the stupid, uncultivated, unwashed masses, the kind who believe uncritically the slanted news the MSM dishes out and will voluntarily watch Beavis and Butthead. 

Besides which, um, "Iowa corn country square dances or homespun Bible Belt homilies" are not really all that prevalent today. I live in the Bible Belt, surrounded by rural communities, descended on both sides from farmers, and I don't see that much of these things. Levenda accuses most Americans of getting their ideas about Nazism from "the movies", but apparently he gets his ideas of rural America from "The Beverly Hillbillies" and "Doc Hollywood" (a movie whose portrayal of the rural South had the rural North Carolina audience I watched it with in stitches). Americans are hardly stuck with a choice between square dances and fascism
