"The Right To Write" by Julia Cameron, took me a while to get through it. Not because it was boring or a slow read, but it is not the type of book you might want to read straight through. It is a book, any writer should pick up and read whenever a little motivation or inspiration is in order. Julia Cameron seems to find just the right words to get you going in the right, or should I say 'write' direction.

The book, subtitled, 'An Invitation and Initiation into the Writing Life' is just that. Cameron covers over 40 topics that the writer may need help working on or through. Each topic begins with an "invitation", where she discusses either her own personal experiences with the subject, or others in her life. What she writes, seems like she was reading your mind. Covering topics from finding the right time, or just finding time to write, to place of writing, your fears("I'm not good enough", etc), Honesty, Moods, Valuing our Experiences,Procrastination and many more. The reader(writer), will be able to identify with many of the concerns being voiced.

The second part of each topic is an "initiation" into writing. Ms. Cameron gives great tools to help your creative juices flow, and to get past the problems in your head. Sometimes it may be making lists pertaining to the topic, it may be setting aside a certain amount of time to write, or to do something out of the ordinary, or it could be writing yourself a letter. All excellent exercises for the writing mind. She really gets you to put pen to paper(or fingers to the keyboard), and get the words flowing.

Julia Cameron imparts her wisdom and experience, and her love of writing to all writers,The wisdom and experience are gifts to you, and the love is absolutely contagious. Whether you write in hopes of getting published, to preserve your thoughts, or just because it seems the natural thing to do, you will find this book, a wonderful "go to" tool, whenever a little help getting going is needed. 

A nice addition to ANY writer's library. A Prescription for what ever ails the writer in you!
Enjoy....Laurie

