
Ouch!  What the heck!  The light in the clouds dimmed for a minute there ... Hey!  Come back here!  I wanna go too...

Groan.  Moan.  Spit.

Ohhhh, my heeaaaad...
									
Oh well, what the bell.  I'm sitting in a horde of hurnips, hic; they'll keep me burping until the wagon returns from marketeer-ing.  I suppose instead of a lemonade stand I could set up a turnip truck and sell hicks.

But, I must have fallen off the turnip wagon and bumped my head long ago, if I'm seeing what I'm seeing:

A plucky-plum-purple background with chartreuse lettering and an orange, electric noose!!???

Okay Parker, what's the deal with BAD BUSINESS.  Energy brokers? Suave New Age pimps? Interesting. Yep.  That's what this one is:

It's not a bird. Not a plane.  Not even a wired hangman.  It`s a highly interesting treatise on business and energy, mixing jazz-step pleasure with box-back business.  And everything comes up turnips.

What I'm left wondering is, "Where have all the roses gone?"  I'm certainly not smelling like one.  Jasmine's my game.  I'll take my sensual overtones at home alone with my bought-and-paid-for spouse.

Metaphoric kidding aside, Parker may have said as much about THE OTHER SIDE OF BUSINESS as Trump has about the tower side of The Trade; as Sheldon has about the me side of surging creativity.  All three of these guys are phenomenal in their talent expressions.  To stand and applaud would be appropriate.  To sit with bird gullet V-beaked would be within acceptable parameters, too.

Talk about testosterone icons.  Hormonal deals.  Y chronies.

This review is about the other side of BAD BUSINESS.  Everything I've written above does indeed apply to the thematic overtures in that exquisite novel, which is as satisfying as the cover color scheme.  In this case, the title and jacket art nutshell the story so perfectly, when I ran over the final period, then closed the front cover and stared it a while, I felt like I was meditating on a radiant crystalline metaphor.  In fact, the plot was so tight with its thematic structure, the resulting gestalt could be said to have coalesced into crystalline content.

Talk about palatable, useful indoctrination.  I learned more about the brokering of energy, numbers, and bodies in Parker's 31st Spencer novel than I could have obtained through a dual doctorate in dollar flow & prostitution rackets (add serial killing to that and make it an honorary, Tri-Doctoral Coup).  It doesn't seem possible, but more metaphoric levels are shifting in the enthralling ozone of this novel than in the other two I've reviewed (BACK STORY and POTSHOT; my reviews on those are in my earlier Amazon profile review list, and can be accessed by going direct to Amazon's pages for those novels).

Parker is a master at condensing balsamic essentials on any cultural theme.  And Spenser is the perfect pitch tool through which Parker's cultural conversations have been tuned.

After having digested three Spencer novels I can see the depths in which Robert B is able to toy so awesomely with gourmet tidbits, edgy literary finesse, and brain dancing.  And, the best deal in all this is that Spenser can be enjoyed on any level, even skimming the surface, sipping "only" the champaign of detective novel ambiance.  Only thing is, Parker's story endings will leave detective fan purists tilting heads and peering sideways with just the right amount of nose and eyebrow scrunch, as they KNOW there's more to this story than they've collected in a skim of the creme.  No matter, though, with what they've obtained they can blink, burp, sigh, pat a flat or flabby stomach, and contentedly take another draw of Coors.
											
The concluding scene in BAD BUSINESS, with Spenser's step-by-Aztec-Pyramid-Step, psychological break down of this heady culprit collection of every persuasion and level of false love and phenomenal evil, could not have been done better than The Master of Psychiatry and Literary Essence has accomplished here.  The finalizing scenes in this one may have you on auto pilot, kissing your fingertips in salute, prior to lifting the Budweiser can, or the Pinot Noir goblet ... or the Blue Willow tea cup .... or the espresso demitasse, as the case/container may be.

Will the real Parker stand up and give his political/philosophical/palate-al persuasions (if he hasn't gone phishing)?

Susan says that Spenser (and gang) hasn't yet been able to fully analyze and articulate his code for living.  I love the way she toys with Spenser on his continued attempts to do so.  For me so far, his best attempts (successful) were in BACK STORY's concluding remarks.  His best attempts (successful) at Right Braining it in a Brain-iac, chess-playing world were in BAD BUSINESS.  POTSHOT did the desert well, with water witches drinking the gourmet creme of dry, dusty scenes and spur-clicking dreams.

Read between the accounting bottom lines of this one, as well as under the covers.  If you do, you'll have a gem to toy with throughout the time of your life.  And, when you're done, you can always hand the plucky-purple-plum, orange-&-chartreuse gem Parker gave you over to St. Peter to pay your way through the Pearly Plots, as the crooked, good-ole-boys slide down the burning ropes.  When the Pearly Gates bark, you'll know you're dreaming in heaven where Money and Love are direct and immediate, never brokered, and you'll not go bankrupt again.  Arf! Whhoofff!

Spouse swapping, energy trading, accounts machinations on such essentially sophisticated levels I've never read anywhere else.  And, books with deftly dancing words have cornered the market with Robert B. Parker's prose-poetic signature.

You can count on one thing.  My next purchase tossed into an Amazon shopping wagon will be another Spencer novel.  Which one, though ... Wonder if he has any turnip titles I can fall into, or off of ...

I'm off to see the Wizard, through Amazon's superb collection of customer reviews!  Even the hissing ones help me figure out what I might connect with in a book, and sometimes hostility is hilariously entertaining and energizing.  Ya gotta get energy SOMEwhere!  Right?

The best waste management: "One man's trash is another man's treasure."

So true, so true.

Dollars to Donuts, Spencer has your Daylight, Duncan, and Krispy's covered as you levitate off your easy chair and go dancing through the streets to pick up some espresso beans and another light bulb for your reading lamp and brain wave surges,

Linda G. Shelnutt
