`A Clockwork Orange' is one of those novels you don't expect to make the impact it does.  When I first purchased the novel it was simply because I wanted some shock-therapy so-to-speak.  I wanted to read something daring and edgy and a novel tagged with the `ultra-violence' moniker must be both.  Well it is both daring and edgy, to the extreme even, but as most every reviewer has stated, this book is so much more than just a mishmash of violence.  Inside this novel beats the heart of modern society and it asks questions we all do well to ponder.

Anthony Burgess paints a haunting picture of a world torn about by violence.  Alex (Your humble narrator) is a fifteen year old punk, a bossy irresponsible rebel of the extreme kind.  He rules the streets with his droogs (fellow gang members), pillaging as it were.  The first few chapters give the reader a glimpse not only into these teens' actions but also their attitude towards them.  They have absolutely no sense of justice or consequence, and in a way they have no idea they're doing anything wrong.  The novel takes a turn when Alex pushes too many buttons and his friends turn on him, selling him out to the cops and he ends up a prisoner of the State.

It's here that the novel becomes that `classic' or `masterpiece' everyone keeps talking about.  Once Alex is imprisoned he goes through many changes, but it's the cause of those changes that makes all the difference.  Forced to become a walking robot, stripped of his free will and programmed to be the perfect citizen, Alex becomes a model example of everything that is wrong with society.  

Anthony Burgess's fantastic vision asks so many questions and the reader can't help but try to answer them.  How should we feel about Alex?  Did he get what he deserved?  Did he get away with too much?  Was his rehabilitation extreme or justified?  The reader is forced to hate, even loathe this boy one minute, but only the heartless wouldn't feel pain for him towards the end.  

`A Clockwork Orange' changed the way I look at literature for it provides a balanced look at life and the decisions we make.  It makes a statement more so then just tells a story.  It exposes human emotions and inner workings, the darkest parts inside of us that we keep hidden from us all.  Upon finishing this novel I was forced to ask myself, "aren't we all the same?" and it's a question I feel this novel addresses well.  Everyone is appalled at the life Alex is living and the horrendous acts he commits, but isn't his punishment, his `treatment' as it were, just as masochistic
