Lets start with the bad...

It SHOULD come in a flip book, makes referance eaiser.  
You dont really need so many different cleaners.  I hold more to the line of thinking that a couple/few good cleaners can tackle most any application.

The between

It will rehash combos of the same ingrediants however as one review stated, with different essential oils.  What I felt it was important to mention about this is that each essential oil can have a very different function.  I personally have spent much time researching various oils to determine alternate uses for them.  The changing of one oil to another is IMPORTANT, its not always just about the scent of the cleaner.  Let me give you a very basic example, you may prefer the SMELL of say orange oil to tea tree oil however it isnt going to tackle mold nearly as well.  If you are rather familiar with essential oils then perhaps you may wish to only skim through this book at the library.  (and chances are you will already be fimiliar with the basic cleaning ingrediants) However, if you are not fimiliar with oils (or do not care to research it for yourself) then its very much worth the purchase.

the good

I have found a handfull of the recipes to be very good, some even better than the toxic counterparts.  The soft scrub is heaven (I dont remember if she actually calls it that but that is what it makes in the end, a soft scrub)  It works well and smells so yummy you will want to eat it!  

This was my intro book once upon a time.  It has also inspired me to create some unique cleaners of my own by tweeking her instruction to my liking.  For example, I know the basic ingrediants that will get the job clean but every time I mix a new batch of something I keep the basics but add in something new.  In doing so I have discovered, in my opinion, the most wonderful smelling and effective all purpose spray cleaner I have ever encountered.  The use of some ingrediants over and over actually is a help to understand what each items function is, allowing you to create away.  Going back to that spray cleaner...she has no recipe like it.  I have taken ingrediants used repeatedly in different recipes to form the cleaning base of my spray liquid then I add my own blend of essential oils.  Make your own masterpiece! 

I thing this book is an excellent jumping point for someone who is new to the game.

