Adam Bede is a young carpenter living with his mother, father and younger brother in the quiet English village of Hayslope. Adam is a strong and stalwart individual and is greatly respected by everyone who knows him, both for his excellent character as well as his skill as a carpenter. He has been in love for quite some time with Hetty Sorrel, a young woman who lives with her Aunt and Uncle Poyser and helps them on their farm. Hetty is exquisitely beautiful but vain and extremely immature, and does not return Adam's affection though she enjoys his attentions to her. 

As the novel opens, a young female Methodist preacher named Dinah Morris has arrived in Hayslope. Dinah's preaching is looked upon by the townsfolk as being something of a freak show until they actually hear her one evening in the Common and are struck by the gentleness of her manner and the quiet sincerity of her convictions. Dinah is related to Hetty and the Poysers and so takes up residence for a while at their farm. 

Shortly after Dinah preaches in the Common, the local Squire's grandson and heir returns to Hayslope and immediately catches the eye of Hetty Sorrel. Arthur Donnithorne is an upstanding man of good character but he cannot remain aloof from Hetty, even though he knows that any flirtation with a woman so far beneath him socially can only lead to unhappiness for all concerned. Not only does it indeed lead to unhappiness but also to an unspeakable and shocking tragedy that will threaten to destroy Adam Bede. 

George Eliot based this novel in part on an actual crime related to her by her aunt, who at one time was herself a Methodist preacher. I definitely recommend purchasing the Oxford World Classics edition of this book as there is included in it a reprint of a journal entry written by George Eliot about how she came to write Adam Bede. There are also reprints of three contemporary newspaper articles about the crime on which this novel was loosely based. It is fascinating reading! 

This novel is definitely one of the best I've read this year. Through George Eliot's hand Adam and the rest of the villagers of Hayslope truly come alive, and when tragedy occurs it is not difficult to feel immense regret for the sorrow they must all endure. This is a very readable classic, a completely riveting story with a superb ending. Highly recommended!
