This is a tale of bigotry, injustice, and "New Age Indian Wars."  It is written by Gerry Spence, whose rich-tapestried courtroom oratory style has transferred well to literary novel form. As previous reviewers have noted, it is a powerfully painful book.  Painful because of the truths that it releases from the dark recesses where the "Powers That Be" have tried to hide them.

Let it speak for itself:

The people [of Twin Buttes, Wyoming - a small county seat town just off the Arapaho Reservation] tolerated the preacher who got caught in the whorehouse when the sheriff made a raid to collect his payoff. The people tolerated the sheriff and the people also tolerated Abner Hill, "that Indian Lawyer," they called him.  
Other notions prevailed. Equal rights for Indians? How could savages have equal rights?  Best you could do with Indians was keep the drunks and their old jalopies off the highways. The more Indians the sheriff jailed the better a citizen's chances one wouldn't run into you head-on and kill your whole family Yet some Native Americans had been honored as upstanding citizens, war heroes especially.  But those who "had made it" were usually exterminated by their assimilation. They murdered the Indian in themselves by taking on the white man's ways.
Yet the townspeople accepted the Native Americans as an immutable part of the environment, like winter storms and the hot winds of summer. Not many thought of the old men sitting in front of the JC Penny store wearing their black stovepipe hats and cheap cotton blankets as the remnant of a once great Indian Nation. Few felt guilt for the white man's original crimes against the aboriginal people, for these were not the crimes of the townspeople of Twin Buttes. ..

The appeals were mere window dressing to make the system look good. Yet occasionally someone escaped - usually the rich. Even so those few who escaped kept hope alive so that he lawyers could point to the cases where innocent men were set free. Without hope there would be no jobs for either the judges or the lawyers."

And there is occasional comic relief - one recurrent theme is that the Manifestly Destined "Westward Ho!"ers did something right. They created the Snickers bar. And a people who can do that have some sublime qualities ;-)

One wonders, is it coincidence that the Mother of Charlie (the potential savior of the Holy Ground) is named Mary? 
/TundraVision, Amazon Reviewe
