
I find it very interesting that so many Christians know so very little about the history of their own religion. Notwithstanding, the same can also be said about the Jews and Muslims, as well as others. This is because religious people are generally taught by religious authorities, and not by historians. It's no secret that, although most Christians have one or more copies of the bible at home, a very small percentage of them actually read it. 

From what I can tell, it seems like most Christians know more about their favorite celebrities than they do about the man they worship as God.  Take this for instance; how many Christians are actually aware that Jesus was a Jew? Not just by a Jew by association, but a Jew by practice, a Torah-observant Jew? The gospels tell us that Jesus was circumcised on the eight day, studied the Jewish scriptures (he knew the scriptures very well, throughout the gospels he quotes from the Torah, like when Satan tempted him), attended the Jewish temple, preached exclusively to Jews in synagogues, and celebrated Jewish festivities. He is even called "Rabbi" by his disciples in all four of the gospels. 

Furthermore, the gospel of Matthew shows us that Jesus never intended to create a new religion. Jesus tells his exclusively all-Jewish followers, "Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill" (Matthew 5:17). 

It is also worth mentioning that Christianity did not exist during the time of Jesus, or even decades after his death. If you search for the word "Christian" or "Christianity" in the gospels, you will not find it. Jesus never mentions such words, nor do any of his disciples. The word "Christian" is mentioned a couple of times by Paul in Acts, and once in 1 Peter, but those letters were written more than thirty years after Jesus died.

So the question is, how did this tiny Jewish sect (and mind you, there were several different Jewish sects) become a religion totally independent and separate from its roots? More specifically, how did this "Jesus movement" evolve to become Christianity? Certainly, this transformation did not happen overnight.

To answer this question, L. Michael White takes us on a journey back to first century Palestine - Jesus' homeland - where he examines the social, cultural, political, and religious environment of that time and explains us the effects it had on this "Jesus Movement." There, White also explores the role of the Roman Empire, the beliefs of Judaism's various sects, the influence of Greek culture and religion, and the wars between the Jews and the Romans. By examining the four phases, or generations, of early Christianity, we begin to understand the transition of "Jesus to Christianity." 

Besides Jesus and his disciples, many other important figures are mentioned in this book, including their role in shaping Christianity: Ignatius, Clement, Polycarp, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Marcion, Tertullian, Eusebius, and others.

In my opinion, this book is profound enough to enlighten anyone who wishes to gain a clear understanding of early Christianity - from an historical perspective, that is. Mr. White proves to be a formidable expert on the subject and shows objectivity throughout this well-written tome. 

I highly recommend it! Five Stars.
