With "The DaVinci  Code" riding high on the bestseller lists and dragging similar novels along on its coat tails, it's a good time for fans of conspiracy novels.  It's an even better time to be a conspiracy novelist, as older novels are being dusted off and reprinted.  Sometimes that makes for some ho-hum reading, but at other times, it's a treat for readers who might have missed the book the first time around.  

The latter is definitely true for "The Magdalene Cipher," originally published  in 2000 under the title of  "Kingdom Come."   This is an espionage-cum-secret society novel that combines fast action with religious mystery.  Its conspiracy includes almost everything but the kitchen sink--Roswell, UFOs, cattle mutilations, visions of Mary, government cover-ups, ancient cabals, and Merovingian history. If nothing else, Hougan has chutzpa throwing this all into one book. 

The basic plot follows, Jack Dunphy, a CIA operative who is pulled out of his cover when the subject of a wiretap is murdered in a distinctively ritualistic way.  Brought back to Washington, DC, Dunphy is assigned to a low level desk job where his career will likely wither away.  His decision to investigate what really happened and why he's been sidelined leads to consequences he doesn't expect.  Soon he and his British girlfriend are  on the trail of a conspiracy whose origins lie buried in history.

Overall, this was a quick read.  The characters were cardboard figures, but who cares?  The plot was fast moving enough that it hardly mattered, and there were occasional unexpected touches and even flashes of humor.  I got the feeling that  Hougan didn't take himself too seriously and that he was using the Merovingian legends without any hidden agenda-they were just a convenient plot device.  Personally I find that a relief in contrast to the ponderous seriousness of many other novels based on religious motifs.  Books like this may not be quality literature, but  they make for fun reading.
This, and books like it, are pure escape.  
