


 Galileo's Daughter: a great book but a bit deceiving!   November 16, 2006
	
Reviewer:  Jeremy D.  (Georgia)  

Dava Sobel's book, Galileo's Daughter is an interesting read.  When reading the title you began to think that this book is only about the life of Galileo's daughter.  However, once you began reading you began to unravel that the book is about the life and multiple accomplishments and observations of Galileo Galilei (1564-1642).   It details Galileo's life through letters written between Galileo and his daughter, Suor Maria Celeste. Galileo was already a renowned scientist when he and his daughter began exchanging letters. 

It starts out detailing Galileo's family. We learn about his father, mother and siblings and extended family members.  It tells of his early career as a mathematician and philosopher to the Grand Duke.  He then began teaching at the University of Pico and then the University of Padua.  Galileo was brilliant but as his accomplishment and revelations grew so did his enemies.

We soon began to read about Galileo's plight and struggles with the Catholic Church.  Galileo had a very strong faith so this controversy between he and the church bothered him tremendously.  He, however, was committed to scientific investigations so his work continued.   Galileo proved that we did not live in a geocentric universe. By doing this, the Catholic Church began to see Galileo as a major threat. They feared the scientific truth.  Galileo is summoned before the Holy Office of the Inquisition. He was accused of heresy and placed under house arrest. Throughout it all, Galileo remained focused and dedicated.  While under house arrest Galileo, became ill but he continued his work until death. We would have not known some of the information about the world and the solar system had it known been for Galileo Galilei.  

It is riveting to see the relationship between Galileo and his daughter. What a conflict, Suor Marie Celeste's allegiance to her father and her allegiance to the Catholic Church.  I could not imagine what it would have been like if Galileo's daughter had not nurtured him spiritually, emotionally and physically throughout his turmoil.  
