This is a very curious book.  From the title one might think it is about understanding Jesus better in his Jewish context, but this is not the case.  Most of the book is about raising one's awareness about things in Christianity that either have been or can be "spun" to be anti-Jewish.  Lots of terrible things have been done or said about Jews in the name of Christ, who was a Jew.  She gives good examples of bad theology where some try to map Jesus and his conflicts with the Jewish authorities to modern situations using a good/bad simplistic and erroneous mapping, in effect making God into our image, as Voltaire quipped.

There is no question she is intelligent, witty, and working for a way to have interfaith dialog that respects the other.

It does seem that she would prefer that Christians not celebrate Passover, preferring to keep their faith on their own "railroad track" to use a metaphor she uses.  She makes one minor reference to Messianic Jews in the book, which did not even find its way into the index; but this would seem to be a large area of overlap between being Jewish and being a believer in Jesus, which she would apparently prefer not to explore, rather each should keep to their own "track" hoping at the end of time everyone will find the tracks meeting.

Another point she tries repeatedly to make is that it was entirely reasonable for Jews back then and today to reject Jesus as being Messiah.  So there is certainly some Jewish apologetic being done, perhaps this should be expected.  What was NOT expected was that she misunderstands some ways that Jesus can be understood in his Jewish context, perhaps she does not know them, but then the title becomes very ironic.

She quotes Mark 7:19b (Thus he declared all foods clean.) but uses the common interpretation that this means one can eat anything, specifically pork.  But this verse cannot mean that in Jewish context, as the whole pericope is discussing washing one's hands not clean and unclean foods; also any food to a Jew would mean it was kosher.  In other words, do not make the mistake of reading "food" in the verse as meaning your food, it means Jesus' food, which to a Jew would be kosher and only kosher.  

She also quotes the "divorce and remarriage is adultery" verses but crucially neglects to point out the context of the debate between Hillel and Shammai over the "any matter" divorce that means these verses in Jewish context do not mean what they might seem to mean outside of 1st century Jewish context, as pointed out by David Instone-Brewer.  Putting them in 1st century Jewish context means Jesus agreed with Shammai.

So I was disappointed in that she continues to perpetuate some common but unfortunate misunderstandings about Jesus, how ironic.  If you wish to misunderstand Jesus less, I recommend reading some Messianic Jews and Hebraic Roots of Christianity scholars.

