I picked up this book with some hesitation, because it was issued by a publisher that seems to cater to conspiracy theorists. Destiny (Inner Traditions) does. However, there are two kinds of nutball publishers: the complete loons, and, as in the case of Destiny, the cranks who also avail themselves of rational scholarship when available.

Edward Burman's "The Templars" is the sort of text that would be on the reading list of a good undergraduate history course: 200 pages, solid command of the best secondary sources, familiarity with the important primary documents, an assumption of some minimal knowledge of the background of the period. Just right for HI 340, History of Medieval Europe in the Levant, say.

There are several themes: The Templars were the first, though still premodern, international organization aside from the Church, directly chartered by the pope; they (and the Hospitallers, which was a bigger organization), created the warrior-monk concept in the West; though famous for courage, militarily they were inept; somehow (the records do not reveal the details) they helped to create modern financial systems.

The bankers must have been educated, but Burman faults the leadership for illiteracy and ignorance, which contributed to military defeat and, at the end of two centuries, political suppression.

It was the lurid charges engineered by Philip the Fair that kept the Templars alive in the imagination, in ways the Hospitallers and even more, the Teutonic Knights, were not. Although Burman does not say so, whatever crimes and errors the Templars got involved in -- Burman convicts them primarily of pride and avarice -- they were choir boys compared with the Teutonic Knights.

Charges of avarice from the Church will generate the ol' horselaugh from a modern secularist. The whole career of the Templars and their enemies was sordid in the extreme. The notion that they had occult powers or that they secretly survive to run the world today can safely be left to the tinfoil beanie crowd, but even after 700 years, some events in the history of the Templars resonate today:

1. The promise of martyrdom. They didn't expect 72 virgins (as monks, they didn't expect sex with women, period), but they did expect celestial crowns.

2. The massacres and faith-breaking, by the Moslems and the Christians.

3. The Templars ability to get around international (that is, Church) sanctions, in their case, the sin of usury. (It would take another, thicker volume, and more documentation than seems to exist, to decide whether in fact they were usurers.)

4. The value of seapower in Middle Eastern conflicts.

One point Burman fails to make screams out to the reader. Burman spends a good deal of scarce space wondering exactly what factors led to the suppression of the Templars. There were several, but in the long view of European history, the confiscation of private wealth by the state has been a constant theme. The Templars were among the first, but the habit lived into the 20th century with the Nazi plundering of the Jews and into the 21st with the Russian plundering of the owners of Yukos. 




