"The Infernal Texts: Nox & Liber Koth" (Second Revised Edition, 2004) includes a foreword by author/editor Stephen Sennitt, who explains that the book "was originally published as two separate limited editions [. . .] by Logos Press in 1997 and 1998."  A short biographical note about Sennitt states that he created and edited the occult journal "NOX" and is the U.K. Coordinator of the Esoteric Order of Dagon.  In addition to Sennitt, who receives authorial credit on the book's front cover and title page, a number of other authors have pieces that appear in this book.

As the book's subtitle indicates, it is divided into two main sections.  Sennitt describes the first section, "Nox," as "an anthology of truly _Infernal Texts_ on the cutting edge of modern sinister occultism!"  "Nox" is further subdivided into three parts.  The first is described by Sennitt as "a representative selection of transgressive essays from the satanic Order of the Nine Angles."  The second subdivision is a collection of texts from the Werewolf Order, which is defined in one of these texts as "an elite sodality of black magicians who are creating a new world order based on satanic principles."  The third part of "Nox" is a group of "essays by a loose configuration of serious Left Hand Path Occutists"; Sennitt calls this "ever evolving, ever mutating" group "The Nameless Sodality."  Altogether, the texts of "Nox" take up pages 8 to 79 of the book.  They are followed by a demonic-looking series of illustrations (81-88), and then by the second main division of the book, "Liber Koth" (89-118).  On the book's back cover, "Liber Koth" is described as "a book of invocations utilizing Lovecraftian symbology."

Overall, I found this to be an intriguing collection of writings.  Some selections from the Order of Nine Angles section include "Satanism: Its Essence and Meaning," a short essay by Anton Long; and "The Satanic Mass," the text of a ritual.  Selections from the Werewolf Order section include an essay, "Are You a Werewolf?", from the WO Den Zarathustra, which explains the ideology and organization of the Order; and "Radio Werewolf," an essay by Betty Purdy about "the sonic propaganda unit of the Werewolf Order."  I found the most interesting article in the "Nameless Sodality" section to be Phil Hine's "The Howling," a description of a "shaman's journey" which he undertook.  He describes in detail the remarkable ritual techniques by which he accomplished an exploration of the demons of his own psyche.  "Nox" also features pieces by David Myatt, Peter Smith, and others.  "Liber Koth" features a series of sigils, names, and magical workings.  Koth is described as "the Black Tower of Set which overlooks the Abyss," and also as "the Tower of Chaos, the Secret Eye."

As a whole, the authors in the book cite and draw on a huge range of cultural phenomena:  kumdalini yogic techniques, orgone energy, Odinist paganism, the story of Jesus Christ, the myth of Oedipus, the Tarot, the use of hashish and "magic mushrooms," working with crystals, "magickal masturbation," the use of the Ouja board, and more.  Some of the names cited along the way include Anton LaVey, Aleister Crowley, Austin Osman Spare, Nietzsche, and Jung.

Parts of "The Infernal Texts" struck me as underdeveloped, bombastic, or obscure.  Also, the blatant racism and homophobia, not to mention the idolization of Charles Manson and Hitler, in Purdy's "Radio Werewolf" may strike even the most iconoclastic readers as going too far.  Yet at times the contributors attain real moments of prophetic grandeur, and offer serious, open-minded readers glimpses of a vast and wondrous cluster of alternate realities.  I recommend this book in particular as a follow-up to Anton LaVey's venerable "Satanic Bible" and "Satanic Rituals.
