For Love is a subdued, mature chronicle of a woman coming to terms with adult relationships. This book tells the story of Lottie, a woman haunted by her and her new husband's pasts. The tone is detached with the author perhaps purposefully distancing the readers from intense emotion. Themes in the book include love (of course) both romantic and familial, identity, loyalty, maturation, and conscious living. It is not a tale packed with action-- though it decidedly lures us with a "what will ever happen?" plot thread. Sue Miller nimbly and impressively weaves the plot back and forth through time and through the emotional state of the protaganist (Lottie). It is a first person account told in third person (hence the distancing). This device may be used to emulate the lack of connection and knowledge Lottie has with and of herself. This book presents the simple unfolding of a story completed with brilliant technique and subtlety. Would I recommend this book? Yes. It contains simple life truths which provoke soul searching and contemplation. To whom would I recommend it? Patient readers. Those willing to take the time to meander with the author and the protangonist through the often stream of consciousness narration. Was this book life changing for me? Yes. It helped me wrap my mind around two ideas that while very intuitive seemed very fresh and enrichming for me: 1) When we love people, that love will either stretch to include all different versions of them as they grow and change, or it won't... lasting love takes work in that regard. How is this work done? This leads me to idea # 2) Sometimes we have to pretend to love the changed version of a person we once loved (or pretend to embrace the true nature person who we idealized as something else) until that love can adapt and become a reality. Will this book change the way I live? It will change my perspective. If the book's philosophy is correct and thought follow actions... then yes... it will have changed my life. I enjoyed this book for it's unlikely marriage of depth and simplicity
