As far as I know, Iris Johansen has only written a few books in the mystery genre but numerous of the romance variety (ok, so they may have been hot and steamy, but the mysteries have much better story lines!). In my opinion, all of these mystery tomes are fantastic and I highly recommend each and every one of them! If I had to pick a favorite one, I'd be hard pressed, as each are unique and utterly captivating. I finished LONG AFTER MIDNIGHT and loved it! Was it better than UGLY DUCKLING or FACE OF DECEPTION or THE KILLING GAME or AND THEN YOU DIE? I can't make that decision but I can tell you that each one of these kept me intrigued until the very end.

In LONG AFTER MIDNIGHT, Kate Denby a doctor of genetic research is an unwilling target for competitors who are willing to kill in order to stop the completion of a drug that will change the world. Noah Smith, of J and S Pharmaceuticals, approached Kate to go to work for him and refuses to take no for an answer. The opposition doesn't know or care that she's turned him down. When her ex-husband is killed in a car bombing right in front of her, not so soon after Noah's plant is blasted, she begins to suspect that something is wrong. This begins the story of her run in order to save not only her life, but also that of her young son, Joshua. Iris Johansen throws in a few love entanglements with Kate, Noah and Seth, Noah's best friend. Seth has the responsibility of helping to keep them safe while Noah and Kate try to finish work on RU2, the wonder drug of the future. This is enough to make a wonderful story, but Johansen doesn't stop there. She throws into the mix a diabolical creature named Ishmaru who enjoys scalping his victims. Kate defeats Ishmaru once, but he's on her trail and uses Joshua's safety to play head games with Kate. 

When things seemed to level out to a steady rhythm, Johansen hurled an obstacle to create another dimension - a realm I hadn't even thought existed. I don't think you'll ever really figure out the entire plot and subplots included in this book until the very end. I thought I had everything worked out in my head and then BAM - a major zigzag was added that gave even more depth to the tale.

Iris Johansen has a unique style and you will always be thrown off by an unexpected twist in the book (usually towards the end of it). This is what makes her mysteries more enticing than most writers - she's always trying to keep the reader on his/her toes. 

This is definitely a "stop light book" and you'll lose sleep trying to finish this one! An absolute must for your summer reading list! By the way, if you haven't read my definition of a stop light book, it's in my review of UGLY DUCKLING by this same author.
