Elizabeth Peters' &quot;The Hippopotamus Pool&quot; offers an exciting adventure and an archaeology lesson for the careful reader. Three parts mystery, one part Egyptology lesson, &quot;The Hippopotamus Pool&quot; is fun reading for anyone who loves a good msytery, Egyptologist or no.    Peters' heroine, Amelia Peabody, works alongsdie her husdand Emerson (as an  equal, she'll have us know) at archaeological digs in Egypt at the turn of  the century.  Both are accomplished Egyptologists.   Emerson is approached  by a mystery man offering him a map to the tomb of the Queen Tetisheri.   Before the man can give him the map, he disappears.  Son Emeron, Peabody,  their son Ramses and adopted daughter Nefret are in the thick of a deadly  mystery, as thieves swarm eagerly around the tomb, hoping to raid its  treasure.  Soon they begin to suspect that the evil Sethos may be back at  work.   The suspense is artfully built, and the mystery is carefully laid  with clues. The historical information about ancient Egypt (Peters is an  Egyptologist) is blended smoothly into the story so that it enriches the  story, instead of distracting from it.   Among the fascinating tid-bits  discussed in the book was the meaning of the Hippopotamus to the Egyptians.   The hippo, like many other symbols, had more than one posible  signifigance.  The hippopotamus could reprsent both the goddess of  childbirth in one turn, and the evil Set, enemy of the sun-god Re, who took  the form of the Hippo when he fought Horus, son of Osiris.   The story also  made for an interesting lesson about the Queen Tetisheri.  Amelia makes a  fascinating argument at the end of the book that Queen Hatsheput, the first  woman to rule Egypt, reburied Tetisheri in a better tomb.  Conversely, in  her book, &quot;Temples, Tombs and Hieroglyphs,&quot; Barbara Mertz  (another name Elizabeth Peters uses for herself) writes of a stela that  records pharoah Ahmose's decision to build his grandmother Tetisheri a  bigger tomb and burial chapel.   One factor that detracted from the books  enjoyability was Amelias habit of constantly patting herself on the back.   It's difficult to root for someone who's so busy rooting for herself.   While her confidence is charming, she has a tendency to constantly remind  herself how talented and wonderful she and her family are, and that grows  tiresome.   Still, on the whole the book is enjoyable, the main characters  are both likable and entertaining, and the villians are sufficiently  threatening. Pick it up for fun summer reading, and try not to think about  the fact that you're learning something
