Pipe's thesis on freedom and property is an in-depth evaluation of the effect that individual freedom to own private property has on the history, wealth and type of government of a country.  Pipes relates a thorough and interesting concept that supports his opinion that the most desirable type government is brought about by freedom to own property.  
	The comparison of societies in England versus communist Russia and Nazi Germany supports a convincing theory within the premises of truth and logic.  He shows examples that support his theory that freedom to own property in England gave rise to political and legal institutions.  On the other hand, Russian czars ruled by decree and required obligatory payments from estate holders who were not allowed to own their own property.  His theory suggests that because Russia did not respect freedom to own property they did not respect human life.
	The freedom to acquire and own private property gives individuals the reason to thrive and accumulate personal wealth.  This ambition and desire to achieve property requires a legal system that results in a capitalist democracy.  On the other hand, if the government owns all the property such as the comparison with Russia and Germany, the citizens are slightly more than slaves.  They have no reason to work because they will not share in the profit nor ever be able to own their own property - sort of like the "haves and have nots" of our society.  Thousands of immigrants come to America each week in search of "The American Dream" which means that anyone can work hard and accumulate wealth and property.  Pipes suggested that various social movements could place checks on owning personal property even in a free nation.  Possibly he was talking of some of the social service programs that provide money for the poor but if they have too much money or own property, they are in danger of losing their payments which seems to discourage wanting the freedom to own private property.  A law that seems to contradict freedom of property is the law of "eminent domain" which allows the government to seize property if it is for the benefit of the majority which seems like an infringement on our freedom for personal property - why have it if the government can take it away?  In the words of Pipes, "We must have to be."
