Several friends told me that the Billy Crystal one-man show,
700 SUNDAYS, was one of the finest they had ever seen . . . 
I'm sorry I missed it, if for just the very beginning . . . before
the curtain even comes up, a voice that certainly sounds like
Crystal makes the following announcement:

Billy Crystal will not be in the show tonight; playing his
part will instead be (some made-up name).

Even though that particular bit is not in the book with the
same title, I'm still so glad that I got to read it. 

700 SUNDAYS is the author's memoir of the time he spent 
growing up on Long Island with his dad . . . my only complaint is that
because I was enjoying it so much, I wish it had gone
on longer.

I laughed in spots and cried in others . . . reading it brought me
back to my days growing up on Long Island (Crystal grew
up in Long Beach; I was raised not too from there--first in
Freeport and then Lawrence) . . . also, since we're both
about the same age, I could relate to many of the stories
that he told . . . we're even the same height: 5' '7" if what he
claims is true . . . in reality, he appears much shorter and
as you know if you've ever seen me in person, I'm a tall
5' 7" with many folks thinking I'm at least 5' 7 and 1/4 inches.

But I digress . . . you'll also love 700 SUNDAYS if for no
other reason that you'll get to meet Crystal's family . . . it will
probably remind you of some of your parents or grandparents, 
aunts or uncles, brothers or sisters, and you'll come away
realizing that all families are alike in so many respects.

There were many parts in the book that had me smiling--but
at the same time, I was touched; for example:

* Joel came home. Rip came home. It was just the four of us now. There 
would be no more Sundays. And they told us that night we were going 
to view the body. Because the Jews bury very quickly. Very quickly.
I had an uncle who was a narcoleptic, and he'd nod off and you'd hear
digging. One summer they buried him five times.

* After the funeral, everyone came back to the house. There must have
been hundreds of family members, neighbors, friends, and lot of food
and conversation to keep your mind off it during the mourning period.
It's called a Shiva. But to me, the right word is "shiver" because the 
feeling of Pop's death just made me tremble all the time. They make
the mourners sit on these hard little wooden stools. Who the hell
came up with that one? Isn't it bad enough what happened to us?
Why do we have to suffer more? Aunt Sheila was upset that we 
covered the mirrors, a Jewish tradition, while I was upset that we
didn't cover Sheila. People kept saying the same thing to me, "It'll 
take time, you'll see, it'll take time." Grandpa couldn't take it 
anymore. After hearing it for the umpteenth time, he turned to me and
said, "Time is a [...] When you're sad there's too much of it,
and when you're happy there's never enough."

*  We go to center court. Everyone's hysterical laughing. Both sides
of the gym are united now about one thing: I look like a schmuck. 
He's up there. I'm down here. We look like a semicolon. He doesn't
even have to jump to win the tip. I've got my head hanging down 
because I'm now a sight gag.

Everybody's laughing. Then I heard that voice [of his mother] in the 
stands. "Come on, Crystal! Come on, 11! Give it your best shot! Let's go!"

And she was right. What a great credo. Give it your best shot. Simple, 
but powerful. Give it your best shot. So with a renewed confidence, I
looked up . . . into his crotch . . . and said, "This is ridiculous."

The ref stepped in, still laughing. "Let's go guys, jump ball." Give it your 
best shot. Give it your best shot. Give it your best shot. The ref
threw up the ball, and then everything was in slow motion for me.
I remember the ball spinning. I could red it in the gym lights.
Spaaaaalllldiiiiing.

THE REST OF THE STORY:
Crystal jumped as high as he could, made a fist . . . and hit the
other guy in the nuts . . . he then got thrown out of the game
for an intentional foul!  
