When I was in high school I told my parents that we were being taught that Franklin Roosevelt rescued this country from the depression.  They scoffed and said World War II was what got this country out of the depression, not Roosevelt.  Although Jim Powell seems to concur with my parents he also believes it did not have to be that way.

Several years ago I attempted to read a book about Herbert Hoover and how his efforts to ease the pain and suffering from a recession in 1929 actually resulted in the depression.  The book was written by some economist in the late 50s or early 60s and, for a non-economist, was virtually unreadable.  It was around 5 - 600 pages and I struggled through the first 100 pages before tossing the book.  But the gist of his argument was that prior to Hoover the nation went through a recession maybe once every ten years.  Although unpleasant the market forces eventually worked itself out and the recession would end.  Contrary to popular belief, Hoover was not a passive president and when things started to slip in 1929 and 1930 his administration became very proactive to the point that his policies actually did far more harm than good.  Franklin Roosevelt actually inherited and adopted many of his predecessor's policies and that kept the depression going until a little adventure called World War 2 happened and the US build up in preparation actually revived the economy.

Unlike the book about Hoover, though, Powell's book was readable and easy to understand.  He explains the bank failures and the Roosevelt administration's gold policy, how his policies increased inflation and taxes that took money out of circulation that may have been used to rebuild economy and increase employment.  Powell blames Roosevelt's union policies as undermining industry and even minorities.  Roosevelt's various new programs that were supposed to help the people actually hurt them and extended the depression.  His distribution of benefits, according to Powell, were based largely on politics.  The south, for all its poverty, did not receive a fair proportion of benefits as Roosevelt knew that region was safely Democratic but other regions not as safe did receive greater benefits.

Powell's arguments are undoubtably conservative and goes against the mainstream liberal mantra about how great the New Deal was and how the Democratic Party is dedicated to bringing back this utopian dream.  But his arguments are sound -- at least to the lay person -- and he does not fall into the rantings of a conservative zealot that I have had the displeasure of reading from time to time
