By now it's obviously clear that Terry's books are a reflection of her life. First "Mama" and growing up with so much uncertainty, other then of course her Mama's love. Then "Disappearing Acts" and growing into adulthood. This book is clearly about the initial attraction and then her first true love. The book focuses on the relationship she shared with her son's (Solomon) father. The excerpt in Essence magazine began Terry's career. Franklin and Zora loved. They loved hard. But when the relationship turned sour, and Franklin allowed his ego to get in the way of his trust of Zora, the whole thing got ugly.

I agree with some other people who commented, Zora shouldn't have gone back to him either, he hit her, he raped her, wanted to kill her, and felt he was above changing his son's diaper. Brother would need more than dimples and ebony skin to make me put up with that mess.
The book clearly states a message and the characters are very real. Her character development is unparalleled. I know a handful of people in this type of situation. She starts the book off with each one of the characters making a vow to themselves that they are going to live up to their highest potential and not let love or anything tangle their feet. But then, they meet each other. And yes they really are meant for each other. But they do everything prematurely, and they have sex before they really know each other or themselves. And boy do they have sex. SEx.SEx SEx. It eventually causes all of these distractions jealousies and other bad stuff. Eventually they both find themselves thinking, hey where am I, I'm so wrapped up in this other person it seems like I've disappeared. Hence the title. It teaches that before you can fall in love or lust with some one else you must first get yourself together or else you really won't be an enhancement to anyone else's life. 

McMillan is a good writer, cusses like a sailor, but an excellent writer. She basically shows a lot of women and men why potentially good relationships tend to consistently blow up in their faces, its not the people that they date who have the problem, its partly them not living up to the best of who they are. 
To all those people who didn't get the ending, I'll explain it for you. Franklin was always preoccupied with sex, remember? Well for the first time in the book, he obtained it then later fizzle out and the commitment to themselves change their ways which kept them from success and happiness and being an asset each other's lives. Terry writes about reality, not junk. Highly recommend.
