In "The Question of Palestine" author Edward W. Said analyzes the complexity in recognizing the Palestinian plight that has plagued a society since the establishment of Israel.  Said eloquently illustrates a different perception to the omnipresent and biased understanding of the Palestinian/Israeli issue.   It was enlightening to analyze Said's version on the international conflict, not simply because I am sympathetic to a society under foreign occupation and in exile, but rather because it is a perspective not often pursued by the American general public. 
	 "The Question of Palestine" depicts the effects of Zionism and how its blatant disregard of Palestinians is culpable for the ongoing strife in the region.  Said describes the historical context in which the existence of Palestinians was disregarded from the very onset of Israel's creation.  The author explains that his purpose in writing this book was to illustrate how the Palestinian's perceive Zionism.  
	Although Said is clearly an enthusiast for the Palestinian cause, he credits Israel's political organization, cultural achievements, and economic stability as the strength behind Israel's permanence.  What I find fascinating about this book is that it addresses issues often ignored by America's biased media.  American society has yet to adequately analyze the inhumane political and social injustices suffered by the Palestinians.  In fact, often is the case that news coverage of Arabs in the region reinforce an already inbred stereotype of Middle Eastern society, that chaos and violence is a standard practice.   
	Said also emphasizes on how Israel, once a victim of oppression, has evolved into an oppressor.  In "The Question of Palestine," Said explains how Palestine has been plagued by acquisition and occupation.  In his book, Said describes his view of Israel as an imperialistic society.  He also addresses the issue that the Palestinians were not consulted when their land was given to a new society for development.   In essence, Said explains how the existence of the Palestinians was thought of as a minimal complication that will dilute with time.  However, the reality of the matter is that the identities of the Palestinians are far from accepting defeat.  
	In "The Question of Palestine" Said describes how nearly 4 million Palestinians are scattered throughout the world.  In this book Said questions how nothing is said when it is irrefutable that Israel is responsible for the deportation, torture, and transfer of population of millions of Palestinian Arabs.  Said gives his readers an account of the Palestinian reality -- a struggle in which the natives are the disadvantaged.  
	Fundamentally, the purpose of Said writing this book was to bring attention to a vaguely commented issue - the reality of the Palestinian refugees.  An issue that Said describes as ignored, or willfully misrepresented is no longer so. "The Question of Palestine" provokes its readers to question an issue that would not commonly be addressed.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in Middle Eastern politics and to any individual on gaining insight on an issue that is unfortunately not often discussed.  
