Learning Japanese through the medium of manga is a no-brainer.  Many Japanese learners first interest in the language originally stems from an interest in anime and manga, and want the ability to go beyond English-translated merchandise and be able to pick and choose from the massive ocean of material that is untranslated in Japan.  

"Japanese in Mangaland: Basic Japanese Course using Manga" accepts this, and builds a solid learning system based on usage and mis-usage in Japanese comics.  Originally written in Spanish for Spanish learners of Japanese, it was so successful that the book was re-formatted for English learners, and it works just as well.

The book follows the format of introducing a grammar point, then following it up with manga examples taken from real Japanese comics.  A serious study aid, it begins with learning the kana, both hiragana and katakana as well as basic kanji, then begins vocabulary building with repetition and increasing difficulty.  Each section then concludes with a quiz to test yourself on what you learned.    There are also cultural lessons in each chapter that give the necessary background to understand some of the subtleties of Japanese.

This approach has been tried before in "Mangajin's Basic Japanese Through Comics," but that book lacked a structured approach to language learning and instead focused on "cool phrases" and was unsuitable for beginners.  "Japanese in Mangaland" is much more of an actual study course.  

The only drawbacks to "Japanese in Mangaland" is that the manga used are not particularly famous, and will probably be unfamiliar to Western audiences. It may not even be their idea of "manga,' as generally only one style is imported to the US.   Also, although the emphasis is on kana, romaji is used throughout and it may have been more challenging to slowly eliminate it as the course progressed.

As with all language learning, this should not be your only course, as speaking and listening practice is irreplaceable.  But, as a fun supplement, it is an excellent book that still managed to teach me a thing or two even after several years of Japanese study
