Geography Club by Brent Hartinger is the story of Russell Middlebrook, a gay 16 year old, who is negotiating the dog-eat-dog world of high school popularity.  He is also firmly and solidly in the closet at the beginning of this book and over the course of the novel the reader explores the pitfalls, dangers, and excitements of being a high schooler and being gay.  Hartinger locates Russell's' story in the social borderlands; he is not super popular nor is he reviled, and he is smart and snarky, but very insecure.  When rumors of a gay kid and a gay club start to swirl at Goodkind High, Russell is finally starting to feel good about himself and rise up the popularity ranks thanks to the influence of his closeted jock boyfriend.  This leaves Russell to make difficult decisions that will resonate with any reader who feels or felt like an outsider in high school.  

The story is told in two parts, the first focusing on Russell's alienation as he thinks that he is the only gay kid at his high school, and the second on the choices he has to make to preserve his charade of straightness.   He joins in the jocks in making fun of the schools most unpopular kid, and the weight of doing so demonstrates the burden of popularity, and motivates Russell to stop hiding and come out publicly to make it right.  

The Geography Club itself is a brilliant red herring on Hartinger's part, a club designed by its members to purposely be too boring for any one to actually want to join, so the few gay kids at Goodkind can discuss their lives openly and honestly.  Once Russell starts coming out, he learns that he is no longer alone, providing the character with some much-needed reassurance, and also his own place in the high school social web, even if that place is a secret.  The entire concept highlights the importance of Gay Straight Alliances for high school students.  

Some readers may find themselves overwhelmed by the fast pace, numerous side characters and short side plots.  On the other hand, this almost frenzied quality is what gives Geography Club such cultural authenticity.  These characters are trying to negotiate the treacheries of high school, with its rampant gossip, various teenage tribes and strict social norms. The Geography Club finds itself in a web of secrets, lies, relationships, and sexual identities that seems real for those who have attended a public school.    In the end, Geography Club is a compelling story that highlights the emotional difficulties of being gay, but achieves it in a way that even straight kids will relate to.  

Personally, I wish that I had this book when I was 15.  There was nothing out there for gay folks at ALL, and I over identify with Min (except for the Asian part).  Thanks Brent. 
