Consilience relates to "the dream of unified learning" and the belief in the unity of the sciences - that "the world is orderly and can be explained by a small number of natural laws".   Wilson declares, "The greatest enterprise of the mind has always been and always will be the attempted linkage of the sciences and the humanities."  Wilson believes in the Enlightenment and rejects religion and mysticism.  Near the end of the book he states "But if the evidence contradicts empiricism in any part, universal consilience fails and the division between science and the humanities will remain permanent all the way to their foundations."  

Consilience is the hybridization of the domains of the natural sciences and the humanities.  "...I believe the enterprises of culture will eventually fall out into science, by which I mean the natural sciences, and the humanities, particularly the creative arts." This is a bold statement of determinism which negates the role of free will in influencing society and the arts.   Wilson alludes to his case, rather than making it, in my opinion, yet he neglects to address some key ideas.  As one reviewer has pointed out, he doesn't mention Godel's incompleteness theorem, which implies that all logical systems are by definition incomplete within the boundaries and rules of that system.  Also, he does not mention Schroedinger's Wave Equation or Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, which have the philosophical implications that physics is not predictably reducible to cause and effect relationships at the most fundamental levels conceivable; fundamental particles do not necessarily obey predictable laws - their behaviors must be aggregated into statistical distributions of effects.  

Wilson predicts that neuroscientists "will capture the physical basis of mental concepts through the mappings of neural activity patterns", yet he denies the possibility of a disembodied intelligence or the possibility of a meaningful intelligence without the context of a sustaining culture and a heritage of ideas from art and interpretation.   He warns we must not imagine "ourselves godlike and absolved from our ancient heritage" - we must not surrender our genetic nature to "machine-aided ratiocination" (pg. 298).   Enigmatic as his warning is, there is some inherent contradiction between it and his prediction.   I occasionally found Wilson's prose to be verbose, quirky, and indirect.  

Wilson justifiably rants about post-modernism trends in the humanities and contrasts various disciplines in the humanities with the `hard sciences'.  He decries the lack of consistent terminologies that can span these domains.   Wilson seems to expect that we can, through application of the ideas of consilience, unify science and the social sciences to the point where we should be able, through development and refinement of the theory of consilience, to develop scientific predictions of the course of human events - i.e.  to forecast the course of the future, as in Asimov's `psychohistory.'  

No treatment of such a broad area as consilience should omit discussion of Jung's theories that the unconscious mind has drives and experiences of which a person is unaware.  Jung contended that all people share a deeper level of unconsciousness - the collective unconscious, which includes thought patterns and archetypes that are developed over centuries.  The collective unconscious contains wisdom that guides all humanity.  Campbell's ideas of mythology are related to this deep, collective unconscious. It seems to me Wilson should have cited Jung in making his case for the dependence of intelligence on culture, yet Wilson does not mention Carl Jung's ideas.   

In the final chapter, "To What End?" Wilson ranges from the concepts of consilience into discussions of global warming, overpopulation, environmental ethics in making the case that we must preserve the world for further human development and cultural attainments.  I think Consilience is a thought provoking book that challenges those in the humanities to develop a rigorous terminology to more consistently `anchor' their concepts with the physical sciences. 
