This book saved my life. Here is the thank you e-mail I sent to the author:

Dear Mr. Mundis,

I am writing to thank you for essentially saving my life. For the last 10 years, since I was 21, I have been drowning in debt -- student loans, credit cards -- and filled with anixety and depression. Every time I dug myself out, I did it by throwing every single penny I had into my debt, then needed to borrow again right away to pay for expenses that arose.  Even though I make a decent salary, I haven't had money to buy simple things like clothes because I am putting all my money toward debts. I have put off graduate school and other things I really want to do in my life for years while I try to deal with this. I am guessing I am not that unusual, but I never really talked to anyone about it until a few weeks ago.

Someone I respect a great deal recommended "How to Get Out of Debt, Stay Out of Debt, and Live Prosperously," and I finished it in a single sitting. I was completely stunned when you said that I came first and my creditors came second -- those words really changed my life. I put needed expenses and expenses that make my life fulfilling back into my spending plan and started from there, as you recommended. And I decided to work with a reputable credit counselor to help negotiate my horrific credit card interest rates down from 31% and 29% to 8% and 9%.

I now actually have a completely reasonable plan to pay off all of my debt in 4.5 years -- and that assumes no increase in my income over that time, and I expect it to increase. I can also afford to take the prerequisites I need for graduate school and put $50 a month toward clothes. I can even put a tiny amount into savings for a contingency fund in case emergency expenses arise. I am again completely stunned.

Your book is so straightforward and blunt while at the same time completely compassionate. I was expecting scolding and shaming, which is basically what I've been doing to myself. Your advice was completely doable, and I really believe I am on my way to being debt-free.

Thank you, thank you, thank you
