None of the original copies of documents that we find in the New Testament still exist.  We only have copies of copies of copies.  Textual Criticism refers to the study and comparison of these Biblical manuscripts with the intent trying to ascertain the more accurate version.  As there are not extant originals of any New Testament books, there will never be 100% certainty of what the originals, the autographs, contained.  In most cases, we can be quite sure but in others, not so confident.  Dr. Ehrman begins the book with a discussion of his own past and how his understanding of the passage of these manuscripts to us through time affected his own beliefs.   He started out believing the infallibility and inerrancy of the scriptures but as he learned more about that background of the translations we have today, moved away from those beliefs.

In this book, he gives a short history of Textual Criticism and some of the earliest scholars in the field.  He also provides us with a brief overview of the field and the techniques used therein.  We get a brief (again) history of the New Testament and how we got the current cannon and some of the major translations.  Finally, he addresses some of the reasons for changes in the manuscripts.  There are two basic types, intentional and unintentional.  The vast majority of changes is of the first type and is mostly unimportant, easily correctable errors made by copyists over the years.  The earliest copyists were not `professionals' (monks or scholars) but literate believers who wanted to generate copies of the Pauline letters and the gospels.  And as there was no local Kinko's to use, they did it by hand and being human, made errors.  Of the second type, the intentional changes, he proposes several reasons: to combat heresy, to reflect social attitudes, or to emphasize a particular theology and presents a good case for these proposals.

There is nothing particularly revealing in the actual manuscript changes that he mentions; the end of Mark and the story of the adulterous woman.  Most modern translations include footnotes indicating where these major manuscript discrepancies are.   

Everyone who is interested in the New Testament should be aware of the issues Dr. Ehrman raises. 
