Alvin York spent 19 months of his 76 years in the United States Army during World War I (WWI) and 20 minutes to an hour in the action which made him America's greatest hero of that war.  In writing a book about Alvin York, then, the author had to make a decision.  Should he write about those 19 months, about that hour, or about the man's entire life?  For any other man, the answer would be fairly simple: write about that hour.  For Alvin York, however, the answer is quite different, and this author rightly chose to write the complete story of his life both before, during, and after his heroic military service.  

When I began reading the book, however, I didn't realize this, and, as a result, I was somewhat disappointed.  It seemed to me that all the action, the interesting stuff, was up front and then the book slowly transitioned into the more mundane story of York's later life.  But I persisted and gradually came to realize that that was the way York, himself, would have wanted it.  After all, as he said many time throughout his life, "Uncle Sam's Army is not for sale."

I must agree with some of the previous critics that this book is almost too detailed, particularly in the middle chapters, as York, with his third grade education, struggles against entrenched politicians to fulfill his dream of building a Christian school in the Tennessee mountains so the backwoods children could have the education he never had.  But if you persist, you will likely come to realize, as I did, that his actions after the war and the manner in which he lived his life are much more heroic than anything he or anyone else did in the Great War or in any other war.  

The bottom line is this: Alvin York is much more of a hero than I had ever imagined, and, although this book may at times be a difficult read, I highly recommend it.  After all, although he never caught a touchdown pass or hit a ninth inning home run, Sergeant York is one hero whose like will never be seen again (guaranteed).
