I loved this book.  This is freedom!

I have held a few jobs in my time.  For such a relatively short life, I've had experience in quite a few different industries.  I couldn't afford college after high school; this was becoming apparent around 5th grade.  I started working with friends in the janitorial and construction genre at age 12 in my spare time.  I washed the neighbors' cars and cut their grass.  Later I detailed cars and canvassed older neighborhoods for a general contractor who was offering remodeling services.  By that time I was 20 and the majority of the adults I spoke to asked where I was going to school, listened to my most recent story of employment, shook their head and murmured, "What a waste..."

I attended a trade school. Later I found a niche and now I work for myself and earn a very prosperous living.

College didn't appeal to me.  Anybody can read a list of books on a schedule and write an essay about what they learned and how it affects them.  I'm not up to my eyeballs in education loan debt.  College graduates hand ME a resume and a CV about once a month.  I'm not taking on employees though. What a waste indeed!

JJ Luna's book "Work From Home At Any Age" describes the failure of the education system, the folly of living for inanimate objects and fancy things. The book offers a plan, a path to success in life not measured by the number of toys you acquire or labeled by your tax bracket. 

He asks questions designed to make you decide for yourself what is important in your life. He encourages you to think for yourself.  We have freedom to choose so many things for ourselves in the western world.  Why be mashed into a mold by the faceless drab and boring state?  Department of Education?  Please.  I know people - Adults - who can't tell me who won; the North or the South. 

Mr. Luna doesn't sell you a packet of forms and certificates and call you a "team member" or induce you to join a pyramid.  You don't have to recruit your family or friends and make them your "down-line" cells.  There are no group meetings or audiotapes to buy.  

To make a living - a really, really good living - no matter where you are geographically located, all you have to do is define success for yourself, find a niche market and budget your resources correctly.  

As an old timer who has seen a lot, asked questions, and found the answers, JJ Luna provides his readers the motivation to mature, get away from your pushy boss and back-stabbing co-workers.  Take time for yourself and learn to be happy in your life.  

By following his advice, your health, family and future can be improved and enjoyed.  No, really!



Get this book.  Buy a box of 'em!  Get as many people as you can to sit down and read it.  *Especially young people.*  It may not sink in now, but when it does, they will save years of their lives and tens of thousands of dollars when they skip college, learn a trade or create a niche, and run their own lives
