The change to the Information Age is creating a new and powerful social class of knowledge workers, whose ability to apply knowledge to work will be the driving force in increasing productivity and innovation in the future.

Like the transformation from the Middle Ages to the Renaissance, the transformation from a Capitalist Society to the Information Age is profoundly altering Worldview and values, political, and social structures, as well as key institutions and economic realities.  This transformation will probably not be complete until 2010 or 2020, says Peter F. Drucker, a professor of Social Sciences at Claremont Graduate School.  While we do not know yet what a post-capitalist society will look like, Drucker has tried in this book to chart out some of the ways that organizations and economics are changing now.  

In the capitalist society, there are two social classes that dominate society, those who own and control the means of production, and the "workers" who make and move things.  However, not very many people make and move things anymore, and their number gets fewer every year.  This does not mean that the total production in developed countries has declined.  In fact, total production of products and services has risen dramatically, but the number of people required to create these products has declined steadily.  The capitalist factors of production, (capital, resources, and labor) are being superceded by the most basic economic resource; knowledge.  

Value is now created by improving productivity and by innovation, tasks that require the application of knowledge to work.  The leading social class of the future, says Drucker, will be knowledge workers who can put knowledge to practical use and work in organization with others on common goals.  Improving productivity also depends on concentrating on tasks that increase the performance of specific goals.  This means that tasks not central to the goals of an organization will be increasingly outsourced to specialized companies that can perform those tasks better.    
