The book "Mr God, this is Anna" written by Fynn tells the story of the young English Fynn who one night finds the little girl Anna sitting alone in the dark at the London docks. He takes the maltreated girl home where Anna is put up in a friendly way and where she finally stays.
But it is not just some girl that Fynn has found there on the streets: it turns out that Anna has her own ideas concerning God, who is her reliable and steady friend that does not leave her side during her short life. She has concrete ideas of his locks and his whole nature, e.g. she does not see him as a normal person but she visualizes him without any kind of face: God watches everyone at the same time because he only consists of an "infront" and no "behind". Anna has a very strong belief in God an is in a steady search of solutions for problems between God and people.
The title lets the reader already suspect what kind of book this is: the formal "Mr God" that Anna uses to address God is obviously adopted from conversations Anna knows from the "adult world". 
From the very beginning the book pulls the reader into Anna's fantastic world which can only exist like that in a cild's mind. Even though the book is very sentimental when little Anna has to experience both happiness and disappointment, it is never soppy.
On the contrary: one feels consoled and strengthened to face one's own difficulties in life.
One admires and loves Anna's way of dealing with life, her lightness on the one hand and her earnestness or even gravity on the other hand; that she takes everything serious and that she cares about every little thing.
One can totally identify with Fynn who sometimes thinks that finally he sees through his crazy little girl when the next moment she again does something completely surprising.
One cannot grasp how rich Anna makes life and her death is no big surprise: the story explains itself in a way, or: there is no other possible "right" end.
After all: he whom the Gods love dies young, or am I wrong? 
But I figure out the entire story must be read by yourself! Buy the book and enjoy it! Page by page - but be ensured: it needs some time to understand it completely
