Don't let the word "belly" scare you away from this excellent book.  After reading this book, I now think of my belly as the center of my soul.

Initially, the word belly made me think of a line from the movie "Austin Powers - the Spy who Shagged Me" where a disgustingly obese character, called Fat Bast*rd, yells at the midget to "Get in my Belly!" because he wants to eat him. And there is always the "Night before Christmas" where Santa's belly shook like a bowl full of jelly.

But after reading this book, my idea of the word belly and what it stands for has completely changed. And anyways, those two references are to men's belly's.  Now I understand more about the Women's belly, and that it includes so much more than a stomach.

The idea that the region between your pubic bone and your rib cage can be a well spring for courage, confidence and passion may seem absurd.  But the author provides historical and cultural references that the female belly is all that and more.  Like most women in their late 40's, I grew up with women's lib and the knowledge I could go to college and just like the boys, I could become anything I wanted.  I grew up thinking  that any real power is what I store in my brain - in my head. So it was difficult in the beginning, to accept that I do have power in my abdomen.  After all, that is the place where I have been storing all the shame and self-doubt I earned during a traumatic childhood.

Women need to read this book.  We have lost touch with who and what we are as females.  Historically, the ancient wisdom of women and their bodies was honored and respected, rather than demeaned. This book, with its breathing techniques and exercises, helped me break down a barrier that has stood for many years - decades even.  A barrier of shame and disgust because my stomach is not flat and taut as society and the media has decreed it should be.  This barrier kept me from truly loving my body and listening to the wisdom held deep inside me - inside my center, my belly.
