I'll bet Mr. Wheen is the kind of guy who walks into a room and immediately starts looking for things that are not to his taste.  For a person of this temperament, being a critic of everything is a good choice of profession - he doesn't like anyone or anybody.  His harangues are so relentless, one sentence starts on page 78 and goes for 15 lines, spilling over to finish on page 79.

That being said, the majority of people he criticizes deserve it, and there is a ton of information in this book I wouldn't have found otherwise.  Among the deserving victims are:

1) Deepok Chopra, "where the marriage of mysticism and money-making is consummated."  Chopra says asinine things like "People who have achieved an enormous amount of wealth are inherently very spiritual."
2)  Hillary Clinton, while in the White House, had a live conversation with the spirits of Eleanor Roosevelt & Mahatma Gandhi, with the help of self-styled "sacred psychologist," Jean Houston.
3)  Luce Irigaray, a high priestess of the post-modernism movement, denounced Einstein's E=mc squared as a "sexist equation" since "it privileges the speed of light over other less masculine speeds that are vitally necessary to us."
4) Those who empathize with the 9-11 terrorists on the basis that it is somehow America's fault.
5) Al Gore, who can give a teary-eyed tobacco-hating speech about his sister dying of lung cancer, yet brag to tobacco growers that he is one of them.
6) Muslim countries who enforce the "shariah" - the so-called Islamic law - thereby retreating into medieval barbarity.  The shariah, he writes, "is not from the Koran, but from the opinions of Islamic jurists in the 8th and 9th centuries when Islam was in one of its imperialist phases.  It was they who divided the world into the 'abode of Islam' and the 'abode of war,' equating apostasy with treason despite the Prophet's unequivocal assertion that 'there is no compulsion in religion.'"

One interesting item of a positive note (at least for Carter) is that he has been the only president to warn strategically important countries that further US aid was dependent upon an improvement in their human rights record.  It is impressive when a book has as many pearls of diverse information scattered through every page.  On more than one occasion, I stopped reading to look up something or someone referred to by Wheen.

Wheen's stated purpose is "to show how the humane values of the Enlightenment have been abandoned or betrayed....Each chapter looks at the application of counter-enlightenment in a different aspect of public life - politics, education, diplomacy, medicine, business, the media."  I suppose he accomplishes this, although his entries bounce off walls.  Perhaps it is a collection of old essays glued together en route to a deadline.  It is still well worth reading, has lots of meat in it, and I recommend it highly.    


