The Next Christendom, by Philip Jenkins, 258 pages.

	This may be the most important book you'll read this year.  "The Next Christendom" is a well-informed prophet's prediction about what the church will look like in the next century.  Jenkins, professor of History and Religious Studies at Penn State, has thoroughly researched the current trends of the church worldwide, unlike most contemporary church literature, which tends to focus only on the U.S.  His conclusions are filled with hope for a growing church, but challenging for the northern hemisphere in which mainline churches are dying.

	The face of Christianity in the next hundred years will no longer be dominated by white faces and English voices.  It will be primarily African, Latin American, and Southeast Asian, what Jenkins calls the "Southern churches." The West has been criticized for capitalizing on missions.  Jomo Kenyatta said, "When the missionaries came, they had the Bible and we had the land.  They said, `Let us pray.' We closed our eyes.  When we opened them, we had the Bible, and they had the land." Nonetheless, though colonialism has died, the churches have not.  Southern churches are now actually sending missionaries back to Europe.  There are 1500 of them in England.  Stephen Tirwomwe of Uganda said, "The country needs reconverting." The church of the next hundred years will be lead by the results of the last century's missionary efforts.  "The empires have struck back," says Jenkins.

	The next Christendom is fundamentally charismatic.  In the Southern churches, people attend because they get healed.  They are "simplistically charismatic, visionary, and apocalyptic.  In this thought-world, prophecy is an everyday reality, while faith-healing, exorcism, and dream-visions are all basic components of religious sensibility."  Furthermore, theologically, "...a Southernized Christian future should be distinctly conservative." Christians in the United States tend to look askance at the miraculous.  No one will have to convince them, says Jenkins; they are simply being left behind.

	Of course the great religious conflicts of the next century will be between Christianity and Islam.  African countries like Niger are now probably 45% of each, with both competing for control of the government.  Pakistan currently has a potential death sentence for evangelizing Muslims.  The 1960's witnessed bloodshed between the faiths in Africa, and riots through the 90's.

	Africa will be more and more on our radar screen in coming days.  Episcopalean bishops in Africa are ordaining conservative North American priests in reaction to that denomination's views of homosexuality.  Warfare in Rwanda and Sudan are more frequent in the media.

	This book is a must read for any informed Christian or church observer
