Drawing Down the Moon is an introduction to the Wicca and Paganism movement circa 1979, the book's original publishing date. As some time has passed since then, the book is now heavily dated. It functions best as a history text, outlining the conception of Wicca and various Pagan religions and creating a snapshot of these religions as they were in the late 70s. The 1986 revision of the book briefly explain the ways in which things have changed in the interviening ten years, therefore emphasizing the book's historical nature. Alder discusses the general nature of pagan/earth-based religions, the formation and primarily features of Wicca (including the role of feminism in Wicca in the 1970s), the formation and role of a few, smaller, non-Wiccan pagan religions (almost all of which are now defunct), and finally the interaction between Paganism and the "material plane." Outside of a few rituals in an appendix, the book contains no information about practicing Wicca, and as such it isn't a beginner's guide to the religion. The 1997 republication contains an updated resource guide (lists of communities and publications), but that guide is now out of date. The concise history of Wicca is readable and perhaps the most useful part of the book, followed up the book's function as a historical snapshot, capturing and explaining Wicca and Pagansim at the time. This is primarily a research resource, not a guide to religious practice. Some readers may not find it useful as a result, but for what it is it serves its purpose fairly well.

I know very little about the history of Wicca/Paganism or the Pagan culture circa 1979, and so I can't discuss this book within any larger context. I don't know how accurate or how balanced Alder's overview is. That said, Alder does write in a fair, balanced style and seems honest, accurate, and informative. The bias of the book, both in terms of focus and language, is towards Wicca (which Alder also refers to as the Craft): this subject has the longest history and receives the most in-depth investigation. Only a few non-Wiccan Pagan religions are discussed, and Alder fails to give a general overview of of the Pagan movement as a whole. That said, for the most part the book is a solid historical resource for those interested in any Pagan or Wiccan religion, providing a solid and useful history in far more depth than any intro-Wicca book will provide. It will be far more useful for those practicing or interested in Wicca, but provides interesting information about the beginning of the Pagan movement and its form in one point in history, the late 1970s.

The book both profits and suffers from its dated, snapshot-like nature. On one hand, the fact that it is primarily restricted to the late 1970s (a fact that the 1986 revision emphasizes) makes it an accurate, detailed representation of that time period. Alder restricts the view of the book to the early history/conception of the movement and its 1970s form, and this narrow view allows her to write about her chosen subjects and time frame in more depth. However, the narrow set of subject and time periods greatly reduces the number of subjects that Alder can talk about, largely short-changing non-Wiccan Paganism in its various forms. The result is a detailed text with a limited subject scope: there's a lot of useful history in the subjects it does cover, but frustratingly little in the subjects that it ignores.

Above all, this book is not a general introduction to Wicca or any other religious practice--it is a history text and culture investigation, not a how-to manual. The reader interested in an introductory practice book should turn to one of the many such titles elsewhere on the market. That isn't to say that Drawing Down the Moon isn't useful to beginners. Unlike most intro books, this one provides information about both Wicca and other Pagan religions which may be useful to the reader who is interested in earth-based religions but has not yet gravitated towards any given one. Furthermore, Drawing Down the Moon discusses some of the key aspects of Wicca and Paganism--the religious and ethical issues and foci of the religions--which, alongside a text that gives a provides a more literal how-to, may aid the reader in understanding the how, why, and what of these religions. This book is foremost a historical text with limited but detailed subject matter; it can, however, also function as a guidebook. It is dated, and therefore have far less practical use than it previously did, but it is still an interesting read and a strong snapshot of Wicca and Paganism at the time
