"The Color of Water" is a very good piece of reading material written by Mr. James McBride, a noted journalist, composer, and musician. McBride is a very successful man and, in his mind, he has his mother to thank for it. He wrote this book as a tribute to the mother that raised him and his other eleven siblings, showing the positive impact that her life lessons had on him and the other members of the family. 

This book is actually two stories about courage and personal triumph. First, there was James McBride himself, a young man who spent most of his youth mired in the midst of a personal identity crisis. McBride knew he was different but he wasn't sure exactly how different he was; how he got that way; or what it meant. He wasn't sure if he was black or white or something else entirely. His mother wouldn't give a straight answer and often changed the subject to avoid discussion. Later, McBride finds himself in another personal when he begins experimenting with drugs and hanging out with the wrong crowd. He has to make a decision on whether or not to continue living life on the street or to go to school, get an education, and make use of his many talents. His mother's words of advice on education continue to echo through his mind during this time and, fortunately, he chooses the latter and goes on to enjoy great success as a writer, saxophonist, and music composer. 

Author James McBride, however, isn't the only person suffering through a crisis. His mother Ruth also has some tales to tell and she is given the spotlight in this book to share he own thoughts with the reader. Rather than write about what his mother told him and paraphrasing her words, McBride decided to take his mother's own words of wisdom and strife and present them within the pages of the book. Her words are easy to identify- they are printed in italics and they either open a chapter or they are given a chapter by themselves. They tell a story of a woman with a difficult past who longed to be loved and respected and often suffered from an identity crisis of her own- much like her son. In fact, many aspects of James and Ruth McBride's lives parallel each other. But like her son, Ruth overcame her personal problems and emerged stronger than ever. She even went so far as to convert to a different religion- something that was unthinkable in those days. And, of course, she defied her father and every social law in the land- written or unwritten- when she decided to marry a black man. 

This book is both moving and inspiring and it touches the reader in more ways than one. You feel for young James and his other siblings; innocent children growing up in a family that is subjected to ridicule and rejection solely because the mother is from a different racial background. You try to put yourself in James' shoes and imagine what life must have been like for him and the other family members. You sympathize with Ruth McBride for the wrath she endured from her own father. Yet, at the same time, you rejoice in the book's outcome. Not only did Ruth McBride escape her unpleasant upbringing, James and all of his siblings went on to earn college degrees and live successful, fulfilling lives thanks to the lessons instilled in them by their mother. 

James McBride writes this book in a very professional yet intimate way. He wants the reader to be entertained but he also wants to create a personal feel. He accomplishes both with this book, with writing that is creative at times and that has a tendency to be sentimental and praiseworthy. McBride knows that he lived an unusual life but he isn't bitter about anything. He credits his mother not only for holding the family together but also for giving him the courage to give up the streets in favor of a solid education and a great career. 

McBride knows his life was tough and his circumstances unique. But he doesn't throw a pity party. He intended this book as a celebration of sorts- a tribute to his mother and mothers everywhere who have inspired their children to great achievements against all odds. He is optimistic throughout the book and he never wavers on the firm beliefs that were ingrained in his psyche by his mother: That education and religion are the keys to happiness and that all other great things stem from these foundations. He could have written this book in a very different way; full of tension, suspense, anger, and fear. But the book is optimistic and while it leaves you wondering about certain aspects of the family (like exactly why his mother decided to change religions) it also gives you a feeling of positive satisfaction. Even when things are not going well in his life, McBride describes the situation with a sense of optimism and purpose. 

McBride spent many years interviewing his own mother and searching for the missing pieces to his life history puzzle. This book is the culmination of those efforts and it is certainly a book worth reading. It's a page- turner and it will both amaze and inspire those who take the time to read and absorb the life lessons within.
