Foe "establishes itself as a prior, more original text" (Krupat 1992:9) to Robinson Crusoe, by Daniel Defoe.  The primary difference is that, in Coetzee's "prior" text, a young woman, Susan Barton, is washed ashore on Crusoe's island following a mutiny.  She becomes the real narrator of the story -- and the story she tells is radically different to that which the original Robinson Crusoe narrates.  Not only that, but her man of Letters, Foe, finally takes her story and writes her out of it, giving it shape as the present Robinson Crusoe.  I shall offer my own, original interpretation of the book.  

The first section may be autobiographical -- perhaps charting the author's inner journey from modernism to postmodernism.  It describes the island, windswept and desolate -- unlike Defoe's original rich setting.  Barton is a "livewire" who is concerned that Cruso has "narrowed his horizon".  She is concerned about his "indifference to salvation".  However, Cruso is quite content to lose himself "in the contemplation of the wastes of water and sky" -- rather than constructing doubtful meanings for the past, present, or future.  

The second section enters into many of the problems of narrative and history.  It takes place after Barton's rescue and return to England.  Cruso, unable to bear the loss of his island, dies on the return journey.  Barton seeks a publisher for her story (Foe), and corresponds with him.  But Barton's mind is beset with problems as to how, or even whether, her story should be told.  Is the story important after all?  Whose story should be told?  Is she distorting its content?  What should she do with Friday, who is unable to speak?  In fact, even when she gets into his clothes, she is unable to understand him.  

The third section apparently contemplates theories of truth. Bearing in mind J.M. Coetzee's training as a computer scientist and linguist, I shall draw on the structure of computer languages.  "The trick I have learned," says Foe, "is to plant a sign or marker in the ground" (this might refer to the main program).  "I shall have something to return to" (one returns to the main program after a subroutine).  "The more often I come back to the mark . . . the more I am heartened."  The implication is, perhaps, that a life ultimately becomes its own meaning. 

The fourth and final part of the novel is a short one, and may represent an attempt to paint reality beyond words and reason.  There is a confusion of dream-like imagery.  Barton says that God "wrote a Word so long that we have yet to come to the end of it."  That is, it would seem impossible to confine truth to words or narrative, or to any enclosed system of meaning.  In the closing scene, "a slow stream" comes from the mute Friday.  "It runs northward and southward, to the ends of the earth" -- perhaps implying that the inflence of truth is inevitable, regardless of what narration may do to it.  

The novel has been described as "an archetypal postmodern novel".  In fact it takes one to the "coalface" of postmodernism.  It leads one carefully through each of the many deconstructing questions about meaning.  This is no textbook on postmodernism, nor even a representation of the same.  This is to observe a postmodernist at work, and this makes the book unique. 

Krupat, Arnold.  Ethnocriticism:  Ethnography, History, Literature, 1992.  Berkeley: University of California Press
