Where is Stillwater?
	
	The Name of the book I am reviewing is called Mr. Popper's Penguins by Richard and Florence Artwater. The location in where Mr. Popper's Penguins takes place is in a small town called Stillwater. I am pretty sure that Stillwater is a town I'm just not sure where.
The First One
	Mr. Popper's Penguins starts out as Mr. Popper being a house painter at the end of September and stopping because no one wanted their house painted any more. Mr. Popper loves to read about the North and South Poles, mostly about the South Pole because penguins are there. One day he sent Admiral Drake a letter about pictures Admiral Drake had brought back from their last expedition. A few days later Mr. Popper gets a huge crate saying THIS SIDE UP on the side. He opened the crate and to his surprise a penguin looks up at him. Soon the penguin gets a name which is Captain Cook.
Captain Cook and Mr. Popper get into all sorts of mischief, For Example; Captain Cook goes and eats two live goldfish. To find out all the other ones you will need to read the book.
Newbery Honor
	The medal this book holds is true in my opinion; the medal it holds is the Newbery Honor Medal. I really liked this book for some parts where you want to laugh, like when Captain Cook slides up and down the bathtub pretending it is the icy Antarctic ground. Or when Captain Cook gets tangled up with a photographer's camera when he is trying to get a picture of the mischievous penguin. Then there are some parts where you don't know what will happen, For Example; When Captain Cook gets sick and has a temperature of 104 degrees. Or when Mr. Popper gets thrown in jail, which is like the climax of the book. There are a lot more feelings in this book but I won't give them all away.
You Have To Know This!
	I would just like the readers of this to know is that; This book may not lead you to the ending you might have wanted, you don't really have to know anything about penguins to read this book because it will tell you a little, and this book is on my top three recommendation list. I also want to say this book is about a 4th to 6th grade reading level because of its vocabulary.
A Must Read
	I would put this book on my 2 out of 3 book to read because its just a great story and pretty funny too. I would recommend this book to every kid I know that likes a laugh or two. I think Mr. Popper's Penguins deserved the Newbery Honor Medal.

