I read this book two years ago, and have been applying the techniques ever since.

What I liked about this book:  

The techniques taught in this book are far superior to traditional dog training methods, like pushing down on the dogs back to teach them to sit.  I found this book to be a very easy and enjoyable read.  It taught me how to earn the respect of my dogs and also help them feel challenged and interested with each new lesson.  This book lays out specific lesson plans on what to teach your dog during each "training session" but perhaps more importantly, once you understand the method behind the lessons, you can apply these techniques to just about anything you want to teach your dog.  This book's techniques are based on rewarding positive behavior with the clicker/treat method when the dog does something RIGHT and building a bond and having mutual trust and respect between you and your dog.  Once my dog figured out she got a treat for doing something good, she was constantly trying to do something that she would get a click and a treat for--even when we were not in the middle of a lesson!

I can't think of anything that I did not like about this book.

I have an older dog, who I tried to train with more of a "break him of doing that" method, and it only taught him to not trust or respect me as his pack leader.  I decided to try a new approach to training when we got the new puppy two years ago, and it has been the most rewarding experience for us as doggy-parents, and hopefully for her too.  She's the most well behaved dog and always eager to comply with my request.

Around the same time that my husband and I got our puppy, an acquaintance of ours also got a new puppy.  While this acquaintance trained her dog using the agressive "break-her-spirit" method involving choke chains and bullying her around when she wanted the dog to do something for her, I observed her dog as being confused, frustrated and angry.  To this day, that dog is not very obedient, and seems to only comply to request out of fear.  It's so sad..
