This is a review of the Edwin Cannan's edition of Wealth of Nations (ISBN: 0226763749).

Before you read Wealth of Nations, ask yourself, "Why am I reading this?"  If you want to get an introduction to economics, then I suggest another books.  One of the "Dork's Guide to Economics"-type books would be a better choice. I'd recommend Bastiat's "The Law" (ISBN : 0255365098 ), then read Sowell's "Basic Economics" (ISBN: 0465081452) and "Applied Economics" (ISBN: 0465081436).

However, if you want an advanced study of economics, or are an historian, then read this book.  It is an essential classic in American History, on par with "The Federalist," "Democracy In America," and "Common Sense."  Washington embodies the moral aspect of the American Revolution, Madison the governmental aspect, Jefferson the intellectual aspect, and Smith the economic aspect. After all, it is one thing to have a revolution; it is another thing to be able to pay for it.

Smith's main weakness is that he does not deal with economic theory.  The main reason for this is that he had to invent modern economics theory.  He is truly the godfather of the Industrial Revolution: we could not have the financing of Carnegie and Morgan without Adam's Smiths keen insights into the nature of economics and the fallacies of mercantilism.  In a word, Smith pulled the world out of Middle Ages and laid the foundation for the future world prosperity.

Another perceived weakness is that it is over 200 years old.  He uses archaic language, antiquated examples, such as butcher shops, corn trade, tedious histories of government regulation, and so forth. However if you can see past the examples, which are merely "for-instances,"  you can see the underlying economic principles which apply to today's world of microchips, oil, and tofu. That is why I recommend a more contemporary book on economics prior to tackling Smith. You need to know what you are looking for before you can see it.

The Cannan Edition is a nice compromise between the redacted and "selections" editions (which would be good introductions prior to tackling the whole book), and the hyper-footnoted ,scholarly Glasgow Edition. The latter is too technical for a non-economist or non-historian, and you get bogged down in the quagmire of over-precise footnotes.

In his 1789 Thanksgiving Proclamation, George Washington spoke of  "peaceable and rational manner" by which the nation was founded.  Hand in hand with the American Political Revolution was the American Economic Revolution masterminded by Adam Smith.  This book is his contribution to America prosperity, and the prosperity of the entire world..
