Gillings attempted to bring together all the known hieratic mathematical texts was well thought out. Even the Akhmim Wooden Tablet was mentioned as a footnote, though not analyzed in any section of his otherwise excellent book. Taken together all the Middle Kingdom math texts should be read as one document, one text checking the other for errors and omissions. In great part Gillings attempted to follow this rule.

Exceptions lie in reporting of several texts, or aspects of texts, as individual documents. Three of the texts are the Egyptian Mathematical Leather Roll, the Reisner Papyri and the RMP. All three texts are fully reported by Gillings, though seemingly minor oversights became major oversights when each oversight is placed in the context within the great whole of scribal mathemetics.

Concering the EMLR, Gillings' oversight consisted of four of the 26 lines of texts, only reporting them as additive in scope, as were the other 22 lines. Actually a higher form of abstract arithmetic should have been discussed as potentially present.

The Reisner Papyri was discussed as containing quotients, which it does. Gillings' oversight was not mentioning the remainders that filled the scribal overseer notes from a construction site where daily worker digging rates were measured in units of 10. Hence all of the digging rates were divided by 10, and were reported by the scribe as quotient and remainder totals, a remainder arithmetic fact that escaped Gillings analysis. One scribal error was corrected by Gillings, properly listing a quotient and remainder; however, the proper modern name for the ancient arithmetic was not potentiallly commented upon by Gillings.

Finally, throughout the RMP quotients and remainders fill the document for almost every division and subtraction that Ahmes reported in his 84 problems. Yet, again, only quotients are mentioned, from time to time, with the remainder aspect of Egyptian fractions often being the major component not being commented upon. A clear example of Gillings' oversight is cited on page 250 "Horus-Eye fractions in terms of hin", where 29 divisions of a hekat, a volume unit, were divided by rational numbers in the range 1/64 to 64, with each answer written down as quotients and remainders. All of the two-part statements were created from the hekat unity, (64/64), being divided by a divisor n, or: (64/64)/n = Q/64 + (R5/n)*1/320, with Q the quotient and R the remainder. As a passing comment, Gillings also missed Ahmes' hin rule, 1/10 of the hekat, creating a one-part number by using 10/n hin, as listed 29 in the table, the additive context in which Gillings incorrectly reported the totality of the table.

Returning the the Akhmim Wooden Tablet, it also reported in vivid terms, the hekat unity (64/64) division by 3, 7, 10, 11 and 13, using quotients and remainders, an abstract form of arithmetic, as used in the EMlR. G. Daressy first reported aspects of these facts to the world in 1906. Yet, Gillings cited none of Daressy' ground breaking work. (Note that Daressy's incomplete analysis was finally corected in 2002 by a Charles U., Prague, graduate student.)

In summary, Gillings' main 1972 point: that Egyptian mathematics must be revisited and updated is true. One day Gillings and other math historians will take up the 1972 challenge and complete the reading of all the hieratic texts as one body of knowledge, as the Charles University grad student has done. The only question is when.


