On its surface, Gaiman has written a compelling story of a young man's introduction to the world of fantasy--in this case, several worlds, actually--as he comes to terms with the fact that his father was a god (albeit, a minor god), and that he has a long lost brother (Spider), who (Charlie is told) inherited all of their father's power. Charlie, the central character, embarks on a journey to discover his past, motivated by his desire to straighten out the mess he creates when he invites his demi-god brother into his rather mundane middle class life, following the death of his father. As the plot pulls us along, Charlie discovers that he too has god like powers, and struggles coming to terms with himself, his brother, his love life, and his lifelong bitterness towards his now deceased father.

However, Gaiman has also written a book about writing. As Charlie (and we, the readers) learn, central to the god like powers of Charlie's father and brother is the power of the story. As Charlie's brother puts it, his magic consists of bending realty--not much, just a little around the edges. And after all, isn't that what novelists do--bend reality a little around the edges to make their stories more real than reality? Novelists create an entirely new world, with obvious connections to our physical world, but also completely separate. 

He who controls the story, controls the world. Charlie's father understood this well--he controlled the story of his entire family, and all he met. Spider, Charlie's brother, uses the power of the story in an entirely selfish way--to bring himself pleasure--until he realizes that when he actually cares about someone, it is much harder to bend reality, without destroying the very thing you care about. In other words, he matures as he realizes that the world does not revolve around his pleasure and entertainment, but is instead made up of other people, each of whom has his (or in this case, her) own equally valid needs and desires.

Of course, on a different level Gaiman controls the story--not only for his characters, but for the reader as well. He therefore exercises even more powerful magic than either Spider or his father. 

This is the same thing that King has been writing about in most of his recent books--at least since Needful Things. Gaiman uses the form of fantasy, while King uses the form of horror, but both authors are really writing about writing--and doing it very, very well.

Enjoy. It's a great book.
