When this novel first appeared in 1966 man had not yet walked on the moon and HAL (2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY) had not yet appeared on the big screen, so the ideas of permanent lunar colonies and self aware computers were quite revolutionary.  And Heinlein, being Heinlein, did not stop the shocking ideas there.

In Heinlein's universe the Earth has become a unified planet, more or less at peace and with a shortage of food and an excess of population.  A partial solution to both problems has been to empty jails by transporting criminals, including 'subversies' and juvenile deliquents to the moon for the duration of their sentences.  Unfortunately for those transported it is a one way trip since after a few months in the lower lunar gravity they are physically unable to return to Earth.  As the story opens this plan has been in effect for three or four generations, leaving the moon with a majority of it's population who had never been convicted of any crime or who had long ago completed their sentences.  These free 'loonies' were trapped on the moon, forced to either work for the 'Authority' directly or attempt to carve out a living independently but only able to do business with the Authority.  Crops grown could only be sold to the Authority at low  fixed prices and goods imported from Earth were purchased at high fixed prices.  In addition the loonies had to purchase air, water and other services, again at fixed prices, from the Authority.  It was a situation ripe for revolution, lacking only an inspired leader.  

The leader appeared in the most unlikely form.  Third generation loonie Manuel O'Kelly-Davis was sent to repair the Authority's mainframe computer  and discovered that the recent computer glitches were a result of the newly self aware computer trying out his sense of humor.  Mannie and computer, now named 'Mycroft Holmes', agree to keep this development between the two of them for the time being at least.  On the way home Mannie is coerced into attending a political rally by a friend, and the beautiful young woman with him.  At the meeting Mannie finds himself in the midst of a revolution and on the run.  As the revolution proceeds Mannie finds himself, and Mycroft more and more involved.

As always with Heinlein's novels the stories managed to slip in details that question all those things the reader 'knows' is true.  A machine can't be alive - can it?  A prison colony cannot overthrow the entire Earth - can it?  A marriage is only between one man and one woman - isn't it?

For fans of RAH's work it is interesting to note that 'Grandma Hazel Stone' of THE ROLLING STONES appears here as a scrawny 12 year old street kid.  RAH's ideas of group marriages are described here, concepts that will be further explored in many of his later novels.

While excellent, THE MOON IS A HARSH MISTRESS is not without flaws.  Mannie's dialect is a bit difficult to get used to and makes for slow reading at least at first.  Some of the radical aspects of the novel have lost their shock value over the years, besides self aware computers and lunar colonization, the 21st century reader is not surprised by interracial marriages.  RAH's views concerning women have mellowed in this novel from his very conventional sexist ideas of his early works but are still quite  old fashioned by today's standards.

This is a definite must read for any fans of RAH and would be a good place for anyone unfamiliar with his works to begin. 
