If you're looking for a short but vivid and fairly detailed biography of Sir Francis Walsingham, this book will probably meet your needs. It gives the reader a very good sense of the man, his life and his influence on the important events of the Elizabethan era. The description at the beginning of the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre alone is worth the price. The history in the book is well-detailed, but focused on the parts where Walsingham played a role with most everything else of the era left off-stage.  And we really only see the other historical figures - Leicester, Drake, Burghley, Mary Stewart, etc - in how their lives intersected with Walsingham's in his role as Elizabeth's Principal Secretary and spymaster, so other books would be better for a general history of the era.

What the book does best is show how Walsingham managed to build an intelligence network out of absolutely nothing and then use it to protect both Elizabeth and England against plots from within and threats from without. The anecdotes of the intrigues Walsingham was confronted with, his methods for dealing with them, and the frequently unreliable agents he sometimes had to employ are rich in detail. And some of the comparisons between what Walsingham encountered with similar intelligence problems of our own time are interesting. The Spanish, for example, were so convinced in the superiority of their cipher/codes that they refused to believe that they had been broken and continued to use them, much like the Japanese of WWII did. When confronted later with the evidence by the Pope, Philip of Spain responded by saying that the English must have resorted to black magic, still even then refusing to believe that his codes had been broken by simple persistence and effort.

What is missing, however... what would have really enhanced the book's value... is a comparison with the other intelligence operations of the period, i.e. those of the rival powers at the time - Spain, France, Holland, etc. Perhaps there weren't any, though that seems unlikely. Or perhaps there simply weren't any single-person counterparts to Walsingham on the other sides. The problem is that the reader doesn't know because the book never touches on it and I truly wish it had.

Nonetheless, I do recommend the book for both its detail and its depth (if not its scope), and for the clarity and smoothness of its prose. A good and enjoyable as well as informative read
