You know that if the Together for the Gospel crowd endorses a book, it's good. It is therefore no surprise that C.J. Mahaney's new book, Humility: True Greatness provides an excellent startup guide to killing the sin of pride. Mahaney's definition:

    Pride is when sinful human beings aspire to the status and position of God and refuse to acknowledge their dependence upon Him.

This definition is peculiarly Christian because it recognizes the root of all sins - rebellion against God. Pride, then, is especially grievous because it seeks to contend with God for anything, from status or power to righteousness or knowledge. If pride is an aspiration to the status and position of God, then as Mahaney describes it, such aspirations involved "contending against" God. For God, your pride is personal.

Part I of the book just lays the groundwork for the rest of the book, contrasting the virtue of humility with the sin of pride. Part II moves to a reflection on the character of God, and His work in Christ. Part III is chockablock full of wisdom, much of it pulled from sources like CCEF books and eminent saints like Jonathan Edwards, C.H. Spurgeon, and John Owen. Most of the methods for fighting pride are basic elements of the Christian life, like daily meditation and application of the Word to your heart, accountability with faithful brothers and sisters who know you, and receptivity to correction from every corner, friendly or not. Stand as close to the Cross as possible, Mahaney says, and it will be very, very hard to remain prideful. Remain near the Cross, and you will see your utter smallness and poverty in all things.

Chapter 11 has an especially good practical exposition of Habbakuk, a jam-packed little book with all sorts of theological and moral application. God need not use righteous people for His great purposes - He can just as easily use proud, godless pagans. Chapter 12 tackles the more complex question of how parents can teach their children to be humble, and has some excellent advice to provoke further godly discussion. The final chapter is a great meditation on how the Cross obliterates pride, and p. 171 of this wee volume has a nice little checklist of ways to fight pride.

This book may be just as useful for the bibliography as it is for the substance, as wonderful as the substance is. Mahaney brings an excellent perspective as a pastor, father, and above all, servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. I give it 5/5. Buy it for your own soul's health.

Fighting pride won't require a magic bullet, but it does require the searching work of the Holy Spirit. This work is best accomplished through meditation on the Word of God, and every Christian must be careful to understand the subtleties of his prideful heart. Sin is deceitful, and its very deceitfulness will require you to involve others in your life, if you will indeed fight pride. If you don't want others to be involved in helping you fight pride, then ask your heart: why not?

(reprinted from http://quipro.blogspot.com/2006/06/humility-true-greatness.html
