"The result is not an argument but a harangue," Inklings biographer Humphrey Carpenter avers in his book "The Inklings." (222)  Perhaps my four-star rating is the first clue that I disagree with the eminent British biographer's assessment of Lewis' "Abolition of Man."  

It wasn't until my second reading that the book really took hold and the light of its conclusions became apparent.  In a scant three chapters (81 pages) Lewis has accomplished quite a bit.  To be fair to Mr. Carpenter's assessment, Lewis' entry into the discussion of morality does begin with a few remarks from a boys' grammar text.  To the average onlooker, the meditations that follow may look like a soapbox, but this is far from true.  

By way of illustration, imagine that you go to the dentist and in the process of cleaning your teeth he pokes that little metal toothpick into a crack in one of your molars.  The twinge of pain nearly blacks you out the first time this happens, and to be sure the crack is what he thought it was he probes it again.  No doubt about it.  In surmising that this is actually an open cavity, he gives you all of the gory details on what open cavities look like, and the entire experience is colored by the initial stab of pain you felt upon your dentist's discovery of the problem.  I submit to you that this is what "The Abolition of Man" is like to those who read it.  Lewis has tapped a nerve in modern society, our tendency to make moral vice and virtue a matter of subjective taste, and having probed a few instances of this assumption, offered a lengthy discourse on the dangers of such moral relativism.  For many the result is a new crown that allows them to chew the food of culture more adeptly.  For others, all that remains of the experience when the final page is read is the pain with no solution, and their reaction is seen in negative remarks.  

"Either you love it or you hate it," the cliche goes.  And it's true.  To accept Lewis' conclusion is to accept the possibility that the conspiracy theorists may be closer to the truth than we'd like to believe.  To deny it is to resign oneself to the ostrich approach, burying one's head in the sand of naivete.  

For a more powerful reading of this book, I would recommend reading it with a group, one chapter per week, and undertaking a group viewing of M. Night Shyamalan's "The Village" on the fourth week.  

ALon
