MacDonald's "Phantastes" often seems to be compared to his other surreal adventure story "Lilith".  In both stories, a young man is residing harmlessly at home when a door is suddenly opened to another world.  Both men - one in each story - step inside and embark on a journey, though neither is exactly sure where he is going or why.  

In these fairy type worlds, both men encounter the sweet, the evil, the beautiful and the creepy.  Both men receive intermittent guidance along the way, and both have to discern who to trust and who not to trust.  Indeed, there is a very similar feel to the two stories.

However, that said, I found "Phantastes" to have quite a different tone than "Lilith," and in it MacDonald explores different issues.  "Lilith" was filled with epic themes of good and evil.  While the main character struggled to figure out who was good and who was evil, he essentially is always battling the force of evil - and all the moreso the more he figured out what was going on.  This dynamic tension and ensuing adventure therefore draw the reader through the book like one is drawn through a good mystery novel.

The plot of "Phantastes," however, progresses mostly without any singular struggle with evil or any other epic tension; the main character is simply bopping around a fairy land, getting into some scrapes and meeting some interesting folks.  His major struggles, essentially, always come down to battling his own private demons and weaknesses.  This being the case, I found that "Phantastes" moved a lot slower than "Lilith."  I'm not saying I didn't enjoy it; it simply wasn't clear what the point was to this fairy journey.

In the end, if a reader enjoys one of these books, he will likely enjoy the other one.  MacDonald was not the most gifted pure writer, but he was incredibly gifted in transporting the reader to new realms.  And, his constant creativity and mind-blowing turns of plot in these new realms is definitely enough of a reason to read him.  He did inspire the likes of Tolkien and Lewis after all
