I'm raiding used book stores in Thailand, so I don't have this collection. Here's what I've got:

A IS FOR ALIBI by Sue Grafton 

In previous issues of this rag, I've reviewed K IS FOR KILLER and P IS FOR PERIL. I loved them both. But now I live in Chiang Mai, Thailand, where bookstores are abundant, in both the new and used varieties, and we've got some Sue Grafton fans over here. I now own A through R, with the exception of B and D. That's quite an investment, innit? What if her early stuff sucks? What if her late stuff sucks? What if my memory of enjoying her writing sucks? We're talking about a series of 18 books and counting. 

Sue Grafton's very first book needed exactly four sentences to pull me right into it. Most authors could write 18 books without getting it right, and she did it in the very first book of the series. I'm very happy now. Thousands of pages, all great I'm sure, waiting for me. 

Okay, lemme try to focus on this book. Grafton obviously came into this with a very definite idea of what she wanted to write and how she wanted to write it. Which rules to follow and which to break. All kinds of apparent non sequiters, without which I suspect she'd lose most of her readers. 

Hey, she's from Kentucky. We rednecks are known for being set in our ways. And she's one I admire. Keeping it real in genre fiction takes a whole lotta guts. Kinda like her PI protagonist, Kinsey Millhone, in fact. A voice that is not only distinctive, but downright unique. If there's a difference. I don't know. 

How did she ever sell an agent on this, and how did he/she ever sell a publisher on it? Their whole business model is predicated on how stupid we as readers are, and somehow she got past that. Another question I don't know the answer to. Maybe one of these days I should hit her up for advice on that. 

Oh yeah, the book review. Buy her books. You'll love them. Heck, start at the library. I bet some of her titles are in there. 
  
=====

C IS FOR CORPSE by Sue Grafton 

What can I say? Another winner! 
