 This review refers to The Great Illustrated Classic Edition(listed for ages 9-12) of "Frankenstein" by Mary Shelley
 
I had to surf the various editions of Frankenstein to find this one, which is wonderfully adapted for older kids by Malvina G. Vogel and illustrated by Pablo Marcus Studio. There were many editions to go through and if you are interested in this one make sure you are on the page with the ISBN of:0866119817 (Playmore Publishers June 1993). You can enter the number in the book search. The cover has a fiery orange background with Frankenstein running in a wooded area.Only available at this time from the outside merchants, you may want to check with them by e-mail, to make sure which edition they are selling. The customer reviews as well as the editorial reviews seemed to be all lumped together, the children's issues along with the adult editions. 
 
Malvina Vogel has done a fabulous adaption for younger readers to be able to enjoy this very frightening but most captivating classic. It is still the story we all love of Victor Frankenstein, who loved science and life. When a life of a loved one is lost, he vows to discover a way that no one will ever have to face the grief that death brings about. He works and studies furiously, to the point of obsession, until finally his labors prove it can be done. Invent life out of various body parts from corpses. But his creation turns out to be monstrous. A giant creature that seeks revenge on Victor for creating the hideous and terrifying being he has become. The path of the monster is covered with dead bodies, those of the people closest to Victor. Victor now has a new mission in life, to hunt the creature down and destroy him before the monster unleashes his vengeance on any more innocents.The monster is portrayed with feelings of hating himself for what he has done, and there are times, you may even feel a twinge of pity for him. The entire story unfolds wonderfully, and in a way, children will get caught up in, as Victor, near death and after chasing the monster through the iciest and coldest regions known to man, reveals for the first time to an explorer, also obsessed and risking lives, how his creation came to be. T
 
The books has fairly large print, excellent and somewhat scary illustrations with captions, on every other page.At nearly 240 pages it is a quick read and one that kids will be turning the pages enthusiastically. The school journal editorial here, say the illustrations are in color, however, in this edition they are black and white drawings. There is also a 2 page bio on Mary Shelley at the opening. I think the age group recommended here is pretty close(9-12), although 9 may be a little too young, just from a reading comprehension standpoint(Of course it depends on the child), and 12 may be a little young for a cut-off. I think even older kids, and even the parents reading with the child, will enjoy this adaption.

A great gift book for your favorite reader...enjoy...Lauri
