Dr. Gordon Green's books, "Getting Straight A's" and "How to Get Straight A's ... And Have Fun at the Same Time" are books that can and do change students' lives.  I know this as fact since these two books changed my life.  Before I go into detail about this, the main thing you need to know is that if you are looking for help for a struggling student or if you are a struggling student yourself, buy both of these books.  They will help!

As I mentioned, Dr Gordon Green's books changed my life.  The first major impact was when I was in college at Northeastern University in 1987.  As a C student with an 870 on my SAT, I struggled my first semester in college.  It was not because I lacked the desire to learn or that I was lazy, in fact, I did all the things I thought a good student should do. I read the textbooks, went to classes, took notes and studied for tests.  However, by the end of the first semester, I received a 1.5 GPA.  

It was just after receiving these grades that I read Dr. Green's book, "Getting Straight A's".  This book taught me the core study skills that I was never taught, such as how to read a textbook and how to take notes.  But this book also taught me how to set goals, which is a skill that I use everyday of my life.  By reading this book, I was able to totally turn my grades around.  I was able to graduate with a 3.0 GPA and only received one C after my first semester, all my other grades being A's and B's.  Not only did I achieve academic success in college but I also gained the confidence and self-conviction to know that I can overcome any challenge.

When I started my MBA at Northeastern University in 2003, I re-read "Getting Straight A's".  This book proved to be a timeless learning aid since I've been able to maintain a 3.78 GPA all the while working full time.  The key to my success was in using all of the  techniques I learned in Dr. Green's book.  When I first started my MBA, I contacted Dr. Green and, when I spoke with him, I told him how much his book had changed my life.  He told me that many people have written to him and told him the same thing.  I found him to be an extremely pleasant person and I feel my life is enriched for having contacted Dr. Green.

Here is the other way Dr. Green's book affected my life.  While working on my MBA at Northeastern University, I was asked by the Crew Coach to speak with the team.  I decided to speak about all the techniques that I had learned from Dr. Green's book. Prior to putting together my presentation, I contacted Dr. Green and he gave me permission to use his materials.

When I presented this information to the team, I could tell that the presentation was well received.  Each one of the team members paid attention and, the following day, some of them wrote me notes to say thank you.  It was a life-changing experience for me because after 12 years of working in High Technology Sales, I now realized that what I really wanted to do with my life was to give presentations that taught struggling students how to become great students.  About one year after this initial presentation, I started a company called Great Grades "Strategies"; our website is www.GPAgrowth.com. We are focused on helping student athletes become more competitive in the classroom and we're currently working with athletic departments such as Merrimack College, Northeastern University, Plymouth State University and Tufts University.  

We have also expanded Great Grades "Strategies" to assist high school students.  For this program, we are leveraging Dr. Green's other book, "How to Get Straight A's ... And Still Have Fun".  In these one-on-one workshops, we help individual high school students achieve success in the classroom.

Dr Green's two books changed my life and I believe they can do the same for you.  I am forever thankful to Dr. Green for authoring these publications because I could have never succeeded in College or my MBA program without them.  If you have any questions about these books, please don't hesitate to write me at genefay@GPAgrowth.com
