Lee Child has hit a home run with his literary creation Jack Reacher, former rising star with the military police, now wandering the country in search of adventure and the freedom he's never had before.

Unfortunately for Reacher but fortunately for the reader, Reacher has the knack for being in just the wrong place at just the wrong time.  In "Killing Floor," Reacher stumbles across both the murder of his brother and a hyper-violent counterfeiting ring.  In "Die Trying," Reacher gets accidentally caught up in a kidnapping operation that involves a bunch of hyper-violent anti-government types in the wilds of Montana.  Armed with his own astounding survival skills and with a beautiful woman temporarily on his arm, Reacher conquered all and did so with Stevie-Ray-Vaughan panache.  

In "Tripwire," Lee Child doesn't really break with the successful formula of the first two novels.  Reacher has found a temporary home of sorts in Key West, working nights as a bouncer and days digging swimming pools by hand (and bulking up to a herculean 250 pounds!).  His tranquility is shattered when a private eye shows up trying to track him down, only to be murdered a few hours later.  As fans of Lee Child's earlier novels can attest, Reacher just ain't the kind of guy to let that go unaddressed.  

Further muddying the waters is Reacher's unexpected with Jodie Garber, the unrequited love of his life and the daughter of his now-deceased former CO, Leon Garber.  Child is an economical writer, and the Law of Economy of Characters demands that both Reacher and Jodie will find themselves in mortal peril.  This time, that peril comes from the hands, or, more appropriately, the hand and hook, of the dastardly villain Hook Hobie, a one-armed villain who literally puts the cut-throat into cut-throat business.

Again, "Tripwire" isn't an incredibly original novel in terms of plot.  But Child writes with such verve and hard-boiled detail that the reader enjoys the thrill ride even as one spots the formula.  Reacher is an original creation, that's for sure, and "Tripwire" can proudly wear the moniker of "thriller," 'cause it's entitled. 
