"Mad In America" is a moving  account of the treatment received by the seriously mentally ill in  America.  A tragic tale of an archaic, self-serving, and highly ineffective medical model of mental illness.  A model that continues to persist today as the basis for the collusion among big pharmaceuticals, organized psychiatry, and managed care to increase the bottom line at the expense of the life and integrity of the seriously mentally ill.  Most readers of this book will find it amazing that over 150 years ago, the institutionalized mentally ill actually had a better treatment outcome than we have today.  It is also shocking to learn that the mentally ill in poor, developing countries actually have a better chance of recovering from their mental illness than their counterparts in affluent, developed nations.  

Whitaker does a nice job of describing the process by which we have arrived at such an appalling state of affairs in the treatment of the mentally ill.  However, his coverage of what needs to be done to remedy this situation is sorely inadequate.  Moreover, it seems to me that Whitaker has unjustly portrayed all mental health professionals as callous charlatans who only care about the mighty dollar.  I believe that most individuals who have chosen to work with the mentally ill have entered this profession with the idea of helping their fellow human beings.  

More disconcerting is the implied notion in this book that mental illness can be treated or cured solely with psychosocial (moral) interventions.  The fact that biological psychiatry is on a misguided, pseudoscientific path does not mean that we have to abolish the  concept that biologically-based treatments may have a place in the treatment of mental disorders.   We are all biopsychosocial beings, and biology does play a role in the production of all our disorders, whether physical or mental.  However, we must take care not to undermine equally important psychosocial approaches to understanding and treating mental disorders.

This book should be of interest to the consumers as well as the students of mental health.   For this reader, an important message that this book conveys is that recovery from mental illness is possible, should we be able to alter our core beliefs about mental health/illness.         
              
