For me, cookbooks have two functions. The first is to 
act as a spur to the imagination. A properly provocative 
cookbook would be one you could browse through with the same 
pleasure that you might take in reading an adventure novel. 
You get to have the excitement withoutthe danger (or the calories). 
As an added benefit, you increase the store of ideas from 
which you put together your own cooking. Seen in this light, 
a book that offers you recipes that you might never make or 
suggests ingredients that you could never find is doing you 
a favor: it is developing your imagination. Maybe I don't have 
Chinese five-spice powder or galangal, but I wonder how that 
recipe would work with dried ginger or a cinnamon, salt and 
fennel mixture.

The other function, of course, is to provide the cook with 
recipes and information on the craft of cooking. There are 
certain constraints on the cook's imagination and some 
experiments not worth pursuing. A good cookbook tells you 
what works and what doesn't. As a bonus, sometimes a cookbook 
is just plain fun-to-read.

As a writer of wine books, I try to spur the imagination, 
suggest the limits and come up with a good read. Let's 
see how Bernard Clayton's New Complete Book of Breads 
stacks up.

In terms of igniting the imagination, Clayton does a 
pretty good job. He explores the many different faces 
of bread throughout the world and makes them seem 
accessible to the home cook. By stressing the use of 
Rapid-Rise yeast, baking with Clayton becomes a relatively 
quick affair. At culinary school, I gave his recipe 
for Cuban bread to classes that had four hours to prepare 
lunch for the public. Their bread always came out on time 
and made a great impression. The book is not comprehensive, 
but its range is wide.

Bread-making can seem complicated and there's no end of 
books that delve  into the complications. Clayton's treatment 
is straight forward, enough information so you understand 
what you're doing, not so much that the process seems inaccessible. 
The novice baker who has gained some confidence can go on to 
incorporating techniques like slow rise and sourdough.

The book is also a good read. Clayton's introductions to 
each recipe are well-written and apropos. As a gift or 
as a single reference for a cook whe's expanding his reach, 
this is the best of the reference-cookbooks on bread.

Lynn Hoffman, author of The New Short Course in Wine and 
the forthcoming novel, bang-BANG from Kunati press. (ISBN 1601640005
