Guilty pleasure - thy name is THE PESHAWAR LANCERS.

The first thought that occurs to one after reading this ripping little yarn is that Harry Turtledove now has some serious competition for the title of Alternative History King.  A Young Pretender has arrived and it turns out to be a long haired ex-barrister who cut his literary teeth writing up salacious tales of Aryan lesbian dominatrixes hailing from a South Africa that never existed.  

In THE PESHAWAR LANCERS, Stirling weaves loads of Kipling, Mundy, and Hobson-Jobson into a throwback tale of a British Empire that never was.  A shower of comets strikes the Northern Hemisphere in the fall of 1878, plunging the most advanced half of the globe into a deep freeze for several years.  Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli gets a quick heads-up on the climatic consequences from scientific advisors led by Lord Kelvin...and before you know it he's managed to use what remains of the Royal Navy and British merchant marine to ship off the the richest and most useful elements of British civilization off to Britannia's southern hemisphere holdings: Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and, for Queen and Court and capital, the Raj in India while the rest of Eurasia and North America, save for Japan, a resurgent Arab caliphate and a French remnant fleeing to the Maghreb, plunges into death, canibalism and barbarism.  What emerges a century and a half later is a wild and crazy early industrial world where an Indianized Raj still employing steam engines and Martini-Henry rifles now rules half the world from Delhi - setting an exotic stage for adventure that Kipling or Haggard would have thrilled to.  The plot itself is a simple confection involving a plucky cavalry captain, a satanic Russian cannibal count, and a plot to destroy a pneumatic computer which holds the key to predicting another Fall.  It's not great literature.  It *is* ripping good fun.

THE PESHAWAR LANCERS drags in only a few spots, and Stirling's dialogue is never as stilted as Turtledove's tends to be, nor his prose quite as labored as alternative history tends to. The guilty pleasure is made less sinful by by Stirling's success in weaving exhaustive research into a truly fascinating, believable alternative world where the heroes are always manly, the native servants always faithful, the villains always darkly cunning and the maidens always in need of rescuing.   Guilty pleasures, as I said; but for those willing, pleasures just the same.  The politically correct-minded may not make it past the first chapter and are best advised to stick to Toni Morrison and Chinua Achebe.  And for those who think Stirling overstates the likely propensity for a transplanted British upper class eventually "going native" into an Anglo-Indian cultural fusion, I recommend William Dalrymple's WHITE MUGHALS as a corrective tonic.  It may not be as far-fetched as you think.  

Now that THE PESHAWAR LANCERS is available in paperback, you've run out of excuses.  Pick up a copy today. 
