I extremely enjoyed reading this book, and have recommended this book to many of my friends, regardless of whether or not they are interested in drugs. the story is absorbing and entertaining, packed with interesting characters and scenarios. it would have even made excellent fiction! 
it is made much stronger, though, by the authours thorough and penetrating research... the book begun taking shape when the CIA declassified documents relating to drug experiments, which the authours appear to have pored over and distilled into an intriguing portrayal of the CIA's bizzare antics and ambitions. The CIA related bits drew me in above all else, perhaps because it is the most sensational aspect of the book, but the real value of Acid Dreams lay in it's insightful view of the transition LSD use has made throughout it's short history and the implications of how these transitions have been influenced by the interests of powerful institutions and individuals.

Tracing the history of LSD from the paranoia-inducing experiments of the CIA, through the utopian ideals of academic elites, into the media explosion involving Timothy Leary (who the book portrays as a complete jackass), and into the mass populace. Interestingly, the portrayal in this book suggests Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters were a more true embodiment of LSD in the hands of the average man, instead of Leary and his cohorts, who had stuffy ideals of spiritual illumination and psychological introspection influenced by a behaviourist approach (e.g. walking around with clipboards in their hands, charting out the effects of their trips). 

One of the main thrusts behind the book is that LSD does not have an "inherent" or "universal" effect, but instead it will affect users based on the circumstances in which it is used (similar to Leary's concept of set and setting). A more interesting thrust of the book is the suggestion that LSD was released to the public as a means of social control, by diffusing radical political groups by making them confused and erratic. 

I gave the book a 4 out of 5, because it is so thorough and wide reaching that parts of the book might inevitably be unappealing to certain readers. I found I had been drawn in by certain aspects, but bored by others. Fortunately, the enticement to boredom ratio was 80:1, which are good odds. I recommend this book for everybody I know personally (and people I don't know, judging by this review) because it is a wonderful blend of entertainment, information and insight, truly captivating. Better and stranger than most fiction, this book has an amazing cast of characters, ranging from a handful of double agent spies, acid cartels led by magically minded individuals in pursuit of mankind's mass enlightenment, radical students arranging the prison break of acid gurus, and much more.   



 


  
