Over the past two centuries, great writers have found memorable ways to represent the blessings and curses of a working life. Their subjects have been farmers and fishermen and factory workers, cowhands and cops, salesmen and soldiers. Of all the professions, perhaps none is harder to novelize in a grandly memorable way than that of the office worker, in whatever industry or capacity. Not that some successful authors haven't tried - Joseph Heller's SOMETHING HAPPENED comes to mind, as does Alan Lightman's THE DIAGNOSIS. 

White collar office work is apparently so inherently absurd, the only worthwhile approaches are long on ironic humor and short on emotion. Thus we have movies like OFFICE SPACE and the ferociously offbeat HAIKU TUNNEL and BRAZIL, television programs like "The Office," and novels like Max Barry's THE COMPANY and now, Joshua Ferris's THEN WE CAME TO AN END. 
 
Ferris approaches the anesthetized world of office work through an anonymous, Chicago-based advertising agency that is bleeding clients and is on its financial last legs. Layoffs occur periodically, seemingly (and unrealistically) one at a time, with just enough frequency to keep everyone on edge about who will "walk Spanish" next (an inside company joke about how prisoners used to be carried insultingly by the scruff of the neck so their feet couldn't touch the ground). Amidst these fears of firing, a group of mostly white creatives and copy writers grind through their meaningless daily work lives - hanging out in each other's offices telling stories, creating pools on who will be fired next, playing childish pranks, speculating on other people's private or love lives, and cowering over the idea they will be terminated because they took the serial-numbered chair of someone who has already been fired. The author weaves in several sub-plots about a totem pole gifted by a co-worker who dies of cancer, a pro bono project to develop a campaign that will make cancer victims laugh, and a worker whose daughter was kidnapped and later found dead. 

Ferris presents most of his characters as fairly pathetic stereotypes: the loner, the storyteller, the workaholic, the sleepy-eyed, slow-witted security guard, guy so desperate to get his job back he keeps working even after he's fired, the guy who returns with a gun, the cancer victim, the woman pregnant by a married coworker, "the black dude ... with the corduroy coat" that no one can remember, and the guy who goes into landscaping after he's fired. Yet anyone who's worked in a large office will recognize these types as quite real, enough so that further consideration suggests that this coterie of white collar creatives is not so far-fetched. Furthermore, just when the reader begins to feel that Ferris has become too condescending, he inserts some effectively humanizing touches. My favorite of these concerned Janine Gorjanc, the grieving mother who retreats to the local McDonald's every lunchtime to bury herself in the plastic ball pit in the children's play area. For a while, she becomes an object of curiosity bordering on derision among her co-workers until they are finally confronted by Janine with her reasons. In response, one of the book's most intriguing characters, Tom Mota, takes it upon himself to whitewash a highway billboard that has continued to advertise the little girl's disappearance long after she has been found dead. Despite repeated pleas to the billboard owner to remove the sign, it had remained on display, a horrific daily reminder of her tragedy that Janine had had to drive past twice a day in her commute to work. 

It is impossible to describe THEN WE CAME TO THE END without addressing Ferris's choice of narrative voice, first person plural. The constant use of "we" and "us" is curiously effective, at once pulling the reader in as part of the group and simultaneously distancing us by failing to give the narrator an identity. "We" are "them," but "we" don't know who the "I" actually is or what the "I" actually does. Ferris also tosses in an intriguing story line about the cancer diagnosis of senior executive Lynn Mason, doing so with a po-mo half twist that converts the book into a sort of literary Mobius strip. Yet just like the mathematical Mobius figure, these white collar lives march on mostly uninterrupted, even if in different venues. No matter how sterile and stultifying the work, no matter who puerile or vindictive or striving or small-t tragic the lives of the workers, the white collar world perpetuates itself and carries on unabated. 

THEN WE CAME TO AN END is a refreshing take on this world, at times touching and at times tongue-in-cheek. Far more believable in its plot line than Max Barry's THE COMPANY, this book left me reflecting on the Lynn Masons and Janine Gorjancs and Benny Shassburgers and Karen Woos and Marcia Dwyers and Amber Ludwigs and Carl Garbedians and Chris Yops and Hank Nearys of my own white collar life. 
