Chicken soup for the Teenage soul 
By: Jack Canfield
Reviewed by: E. Machado
Period: P.3
   
Chicken soup for the Teenage soul is a great book. This book has many different stories about growing up as a teen. The topics range from dating to family to "tough stuff" as it says in the book. In the "tuff stuff" section of the book there was a story that talked about suicide. It told the story of a boy who had committed suicide. It talked about all the nice things he had done in his life and then, out of the blue, he kills himself. The story's main purpose was to tell readers that you never know how a person feels inside, no matter how they act. They might be content with there life, but they might not be. That is an example of one of the many stories in this book.
   
I liked this book for many reasons but one of the main reasons are all of the great comics. My favorite comic in this book showed a girl coming home after her first date and her parents just were harassing her boyfriend and her with pictures. The comic said, "Oh, look at this! Our little girl coming home from her first date! You kids just say good night and pretend we weren't here." I thought this was hilarious. When I read this I began to think of when i go on a first date. I thought to myself, "I hope my parents don't do that to me! That would be so embarrassing!"
    
Another reason why I like this book is because of all the great stories and good lessons behind them. A great story in this book was called, "Just one Drink", not because of the action but because of the lesson. It talked about how just one drink made a boy so light headed that when he went to drive; he had an accident and died. It said "Jose chose the road to know where" This pretty much was saying in four simple words, don't drink and drive. This was an amazing story with an amazing lesson.
    
My favorite story was called, "A famous Father". A sad girl told the story and she talked about her father who had just died. I liked this story because of the depth. this girl was devastated and it really made me think of the saying, you don't know what you have until you lose it. Her first sentence said, "The greatest man died today." And when i kept reading, I became very sad because if my dad died I wouldn't know what to do. I mean, I would still have my mom but I wouldn't have my dad. And a mom and a dad fit together like a jigsaw puzzle, macaroni and cheese, and peanut butter and jelly. This is a great book and I recommend it to all teens
