Let me start off by saying I was very tempted to mock J.D Salinger's prose for this review by littering it with the "god d#%" curse word and other phraseology that is repeated ad nauseam throughout the book. I tell you "g dam" is everybody's favorite word in this book. Anyway, my tongue in cheek review would become tedious, so I'll play it straight.

Despite its popularity, The Catcher in the Rye was never a book I had to read in high school or college. So, I took it upon myself to read it for pleasure simply because I enjoy reading. 

In the beginning I thought I would hate Holden Caufield. He is vulgar-mouthed,  and at times, a silly guy. You can tell very early on there is something "off" about him. But there are a few things that make him endearing to me: he has a heart; he is unintentionally humorous; he despises phonies and cruelty; and he craves a return to innocence. Like me, he is disgusted by the actions and ways of humanity. He sees the world as a trivialized, bull-sh-it world, and I have to agree with him. In a word, he's a misanthrope; but is he a justified misanthrope?

My problem with Holden is in my realization that he is a nonconformist because he can afford to be. If Holden were a minority and/or poor, he would have to play by the rules of the world in order to simply SURVIVE. But because Holden is a white male in the Fifties, and has a rich corporate lawyer father, he has the luxury to be lazy, uninterested, and detached from the world around him without suffering any serious consequences. 

This reality makes Holden less of a hero and more of a spoiled brat whose problems are trivial and whose outlook on life would be very different if he could trade places with someone less fortunate than him for a couple of weeks. Instead of cheering him for his nonconformity, we should jeer him for his blatant stupidity. There is an obvious difference between refusing to conform to rules that hurt you and refusing to conform to rules that help you. If everybody is wearing blue and I show up in orange, I'm being a clever nonconformist. But if my nonconformity includes flunking out of school and damaging my chances at leading a successful life, then I'm simply an idiot.

But he is an idiot we can still empathize with and even root for. This is a sign of great characterization. Of course, we spend the entire book with Holden, so there's really no excuse for not knowing/liking him very well.

Bottom Line: A good, breezy book that I would put on the same level with To Kill A Mockingbird. Like Mockingbird, the love people have for it is more explanatory of its popularity than its actual technical greatness. It's a book that may still speak to many, but it's not necessarily a mind-blowing literary achievement. But, hey, it's Winona Ryder's favorite book (for whatever that's worth). And if you've seen Heathers, then you know underlying passages from it can be a sign of suicidal tendencies. 
