As a lifelong and very active Catholic I was shocked to learn just how little I knew about the history of St. Peters in Rome.
For example, I was totally unaware that Constantine erected the first St. Peters in the year 312 A.D. and that the original structure survived for more than 1200 years!  And I had certainly never read very much about how the current St. Peters came to be either.  "Basilica" tells the remarkable story of the planning and constructon of what many consider to be among the most beautiful and recognizable edifices in the world. It is a tale with more twists and turns, heroes and villains, triumphs and disappointments than one could ever imagine. It is a spellbinding story.
The prime mover and shaker behind the second St. Peters was Pope Julius II. The year was 1505. Julius envisioned a structure that would "embody the greatness of the present and the future."  The new St. Peter's would dwarf the constructions of the Caesars and proclaim the power and glory of Christ and His Church.  The pope would assemble the most brilliant minds in Rome and would spare no expense to achieve his dream. Among those he recruited for the project were Bramante, Raphael and yes, Michaelangelo. But building the new St. Peters would turn out to be a much more costly and time consuming proposition than anyone could have ever imagined. 
"Basilica" tells the amazing story of what would turn out to be a 162 year project.  The tale is replete with nasty politics, betrayal, bitter rivalries, greed and a variety of other moral shortcomings.  But in the end the good really does outweigh the bad.  R.A. Scotti writes of the remarkable engineering and architectural feats that made the new St. Peter's possible. She reminds us all of the genius of artists like Michaelangelo and Raphael. And she chronicles the perseverance of so many of the Holy Fathers who were determined to overcome the numerous obstacles that arose and to see this project through. 
Now I suspect that for those who are already well versed in  these matters "Basilica" will probably not break a whole lot of new ground.  But for the rest of us "Basilica" is a great introduction to so many of these topics.  R.A. Scotti succeeded in holding my interest from cover to cover.  A great read!  Recommended.
