This was Christopher's Moore 1st book, and it displays most of the traits that would keep him so successful throughout his later books, and also some rookie "jitters."

As with most of his wacky novels, the plot is difficult to summarize and almost beside the point.  It deals with a demon who is beholden to a man who would VERY MUCH like to shake off his burden (it's a drag being the "master" of a demon when that demon still must quite frequently kill and eat people).  The demon and his keeper have been more or less tracked to the town of Pine Cove, CA (Moore's favorite coastal town, full of wacky characters and the main location for other works) by a genie.  Don't ask!  As I said, Moore's plots twist like crazy, but the real joy with him are the crazy characters, little asides and observations that he and his characters make, and, quite bluntly, the off-the-wall humor.  There are lots and lots of strange, messed-up, yet delightful people to meeting PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING.  There are many funny events.  There are also lots of biting and observant comments from the author...little metaphors and similes that just make you stop in your tracks with an admiring smile.

There are a few laugh-out loud funny moments, but mostly there is just frantic, inventive fun throughout.  If you've never read Christopher Moore, this might be a good place to start.  It gives an excellent introduction to his wacky sense of humor.  If you enjoy it, you might do best to then read his books in the order of release.  For example, the next one would be BLOODSUCKING FIENDS, a book with a little less humor but a lot more humanity.  As Moore matured, his books juggle the real human feeling with strange and hilarious events with ever more deftness.  ISLAND OF THE SEQUINED LOVE NUN and my favorite (so far) COYOTE BLUE show an author with a truly unique voice and vision.

The rookie problems with book are mostly centered around a lack of tightness.  Moore always has sprawling plots and many plot threads which don't come together until the end.  This book is actually a bit more sprawling...with so MANY characters to juggle and keep track of and so many threads to weave together in time for the climax that sometimes I frankly forgot some of the characters.  Someone might have been introduced on page 25, for example, and that person didn't reappear for 100 pages, and by then, I had forgotten them altogether.  Later, Moore's plots became more outrageous and convoluted (FLUKE), but there were fewer characters to guide us through the machinations.  PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING was just a little big more hard work than I'm used to with Moore.  Also, his romances, though charming and wittily observed, never made me CARE what happened.  Later, his romantic entanglements become more emotionally resonant.  But not yet.

But these are fairly modest flaws in a generally excellent book.  It's funny...and not many books are genuinely FUNNY and not mean-spirited.  It's not "humor" like a Dave Barry book, but it's not tormented, like many works by Kurt Vonnegut, which can make you laugh out-loud, but are also quite searing.  Moore just writes inventive, funny, downright crazy stuff.  I sense his audience is slowly blossoming with each new release.  I'm glad...because I've enjoyed his work so much over the last few years that I want others to enjoy it too.
