In "A Small Place", Kincaid leads the western reader through Antigua, while invoking feelings of guilt.  Kincaid draws the reader in by narrating through the reader's perspective.  She does this to engulf the reader into the setting and workings of Antigua and its government, including it's abused cultural history.  This is the style of narration that Kincaid uses in the first thirty-seven pages of the book, and is very effective in captivating the reader.  I felt guilt and ignorance while reading through Kincaid's description of Antigua and the abuse it is subject to by a regressive white moderate.  She passionately unveils the crimes and injustices that her people have suffered from.  The read is passionate and truthful while forcefully shedding the ignorant presumptions of the reader about what a western reader would consider a "resort area." She skillfully illustrates how foreign landowners rob the economy and further suppress the Antiguan population.  She combines the individual reader into a collaboration of his/her personal/cultural histories to make that individual feel responsible for his/her cultures actions.  So not only do you read the book as yourself, but you read the essay as western cultures history.  She doesn't stop there, but uncovers the evils committed by her own western placed government and calls into question the morality that the whole island revolves on.  This is the reason the book has been banned in Antigua.  Not only would the book have inflicted damage on commerce and tourism, but also it would have uncovered the committed evils of the persons in power there.
I thought the book was far from enjoyable, but an essential read that helped erase certain ignorance held by the western population.  I would suggest the book to scholars and activists or anyone interested in the repercussions of cultural memory.  All in all I enjoyed the read but wished that Kincaid had followed through with the "reader narrator" format, which she uses to pull the reader in but abandons after the thirty-seventh page.
