Despite all I'm about to say, I loved this book and think of all my remarks as minor things compared to the originality of the story and the feelings it provided. Sharpe is talented, indeed, everyone should appreciate his writing.
So, I liked the book, but I have some complaints, reason for which I didn't give it a 5. At times it seemed that the ramblings of the teenage characters were a bit improbable, at least so it seemed in the begin. Then I entered more in the story and I appreciated quite much the girl's evolution of thoughts and all those little paradoxes that mark the path to catholicism, all those unnatural guilts and on and on. I recognized myself in this girl regarding a pretty obscure period of my life while I was searching for spirituality, thinking that I might have found it in all those "rules" and "do not" which stood between me and my real self. This part was quite instructive, I wish I had read it before that period which costed me much pain. I think the actions of Chris resulted too unnerving and autodestructive at times, not meaning that I couldn't bear it, but that I think it quite improbable that one would sabotage oneself this much, but also, weirder things happen. Also, there were too many times in which people talked to each other too frankly/rudely to be true, without any real accident/arguing happening. I mean, it's unlikely that one could stand this boldness, both who does it and receives it. Apart from all these improbable little things which at times made you think "yeah, right!" that brought you back to the notion that you're reading fiction, the story evolves in a heartly and moving way, especially regarding the father, which one can't help but love. I particularly liked that thing of the "mind eye" in him that instead didn't seem a bit surreal, compared to all the other things mentioned above, as it fit lovely in the story and added that quid of fatherly love and humanity which touched me. The story is a quick read and makes you appreciate what you've got. Despite all my complaints I didn't get bored one bit reading it, instead it catched my attention remarkably. I'd recomend this book
