I am always trying to absorb as many viewpoints as I can on the important subject of coaching.  My role involves coaching of senior leaders and my own team, so the title of this book urged me to pick it up and read it.  However, I was surprised to find that despite the title, this book is really geared towards self reflection and self awareness of ones own opportunities.  

The book really gets into depth in examining style.  For example, the author looks at the FedEx model of leadership and the nine elements of "style". (Page 37)  The book looks at case studies, and how our own personal psychology holds us back.  Included are dozens of pages of person questions to answer which are designed to allow for self reflection of what in our lives drives us, and may hinder our ability to effectively perform.

Throughout the book are business case studies, tips, and insights too numerous to list.  Among the more impactful are the sections on how to improve communications by slowing down, use of silence and pausing for effect. (Page 136)  Also, one can always benefit from a better control of the "minutiae of acting" (Page 145).  The author examines how the little aspects of posture, dress, and facial expressions, may impact a leader's effectiveness.  While much of this is obvious, the book uses some fascinating examples of how these elements of our "presentation" have bigger impacts than we realize.  I personally learned a few new things, despite how frequently I have studied this factor of interpersonal relationships.

The latter sections cover emotional intelligence, something very important to all leaders.  Not much new here, but the topic itself is vital to effective leadership, and gets more important the higher the level and responsibility of the position.

Overall, a very useful book.  The author uses examples from Pepsi-Co and even names a person I knew while working there.  The opportunity for self reflection by completing the pages of questions would be invaluable, and I will go back and complete them myself when time allows.  Highly recommended for anyone in a leadership position, or responsible for providing coaching to senior leaders.
