First off, I'd like to point out that the book reviews from the same reviewer in Denton, Texas, don't say anything about this book.  Obviously that person was offended by it and went out of their way to defame this book.  Now on to what I have to say about this book.  I've read many other books by DiMarco but none hit like this one.  For years I have been told by at least one church leader at my own church that unmarried men and women sharing a bed was nothing, that it was harmless. This book is one of the few books I have read that tackles this subject matter bluntly and it actually uses scripture, rather than assume that teens and twenty-somethings are stupid and only need to be told that its wrong and leave it at that.  Her approach is completely Biblical.  I'm not surprised that people were offended by this book.  Rather than be like all the rest of the brainless clutter that fills the average Christian bookstore these days, this book won't make you feel all warm and fuzzy inside and leave you with that feeling that it's the other person's fault, not yours and that God is on your side and you can do whatever you want. No, this book is not like that.  It talks about the newer trend among people my age, and older, and younger, who do everything but, it tackles the unmarried Christian single adult culture and the teenage dating culture in one move.  DiMarco is blunt: she tells you what guys really want.  She will tell you how you cause Christian men to stumble and how you devalue yourself when you do everything but.  And she quotes scripture to back herself up, including scripture passages from Matthew and 1 John that I have hardly ever heard used in any sermons.  DiMarco talks about how YOU need to change, how it MIGHT BE YOUR FAULT, and what YOU can do to change.  She admonishes readers to live for Christ not the world, to remember the true meaning of grace (i.e., "its okay to knowingly do things that are wrong, because I'll still go to heaven." doesn't cut it). It doesn't take much to ask any guy even at your church, what is on their mind.  Like DiMarco, I've never had a guy tell me that it wasn't on his mind.  The standards DiMarco has in here are Biblical, backed by the Bible; when you cause a person to sin Jesus Christ himself said it would be better if a millstone were tied around your neck and you were thrown into a lake.  Accountability is biblical, thinking of others, including guys, is Biblical, and so is loving others more than yourself.  If you desire to live for Christ, then you set yourself apart from the World.  I recommend this book highly.  Pull out your own Bible as you read it--DiMarco isn't twisting scripture.  That is, read this book if you want to be convicted, if you want to be held accountable.  If you want to feel warm and fuzzy and read a book about how men are evil and how you should be able to do whatever you want, don't read this one.  It will offend you.  If you want another book that talks about how you are right and everyone else is wrong, don't read this one.  I'd also recommend that if you are in the latter group that you also avoid anything said or written by Paul Washer, and that you also avoid reading the Bible. 
