The 1992 Vintage edition of "The Confessions of Nat Turner" has an afterword by the author that could be called "The Confessions of William Styron."  Here, Styron responds to the criticisms that have plagued his novel about Nat Turner, the rebel slave who in 1831 instigated an insurrection that resulted in the murders of fifty-five white people, since its initial publication in 1967.  Is Styron's novel the mature, scholarly work of a man who is genuinely fascinated with an ugly historical incident in his homeland (the Tidewater region of southeastern Virginia), or just an iconic relic of the Civil Rights era?  Styron would insist on the former, but posterity may judge it to be the latter. 

Intentionally or not, the novel is certainly a magnet for controversy simply because so few facts are known about Nat Turner's life, which required Styron to fill in the blanks with as many fictional elements as he could imagine; and many readers, perhaps misunderstanding Styron's agenda, are liable to dispute and even attack the fictional material for various reasons.  Since this is not a biography, Styron was violating no ethical taboos by employing artistic license where he saw fit.

The novel begins with Turner sitting in a jail cell awaiting trial for his bloody crimes and delivering to his lawyer, Thomas Gray, what will be recorded in history as his "confessions."  Speaking his bilious, violent words with precision, insight, and erudition, Nat tells the story of his life in a series of flashbacks, beginning with his childhood at the plantation of a wealthy miller named Samuel Turner, where his mother was a cook and therefore enjoyed a few more privileges than did most of the other slaves.  Nat was a bright boy who, when he demonstrated a desire to learn how to read, was taught the Bible by Samuel Turner's wife and daughter.  When financial ruin befell the Turner family, Nat was sold to a variety of owners until he finally came into the possession of a wheelwright named Joseph Travis.  

As a sincerely devout man who strove to suppress his lust and remain celibate, and as probably the only literate black man in the county, Nat became a preacher to the other slaves, who were granted some liberties on Sundays but were not allowed to assemble.  The hatred he had been nursing towards white people culminated on a day he received a divine vision to kill them all, to assume the role of a murderous Moses leading his people out of bondage to the promised land.  While his friend and closest associate, Hark, enlisted as many slaves as possible for a revolt, he devised plans for the most merciless of massacres that succeeded to the extent that any white Southern sentiment for abolition was consequently cooled for the time being.  

Styron is a meticulous, highly disciplined prose artist who writes novels that are compellingly readable and filled with savory details but somehow fail to substantiate themselves beyond the surface.  The compensation for this in "The Confessions of Nat Turner" is the selection of a loaded and endlessly discussable topic:  Is a man born in chains and consigned to die in chains to be blamed if he attacks his captor in anger?  Turner, in Styron's eyes, would justify the murders as evil for evil, contending that the damage done to blacks by whites is irreparable and the only remaining option is destruction.  Styron calls Nat Turner a psychopath, yet composes a portrait of him that is tense but controlled and, in its thematic denunciation of slavery, roundly empathic.
  


