Franzen writes in such an evenhanded tone that it is hard to imagine anyone being mad at him.  He is by turns incisive, thoughtful, and intellectual, but his terrain is a personal one, in which he reflects on himself and his reaction to the modern world.  Hardly the stuff of polemics.

As the cliche goes, though, beauty is only skin deep and where I see at worst banal observations about Franzen's attempts to make sense of his disconnectedness from the world, he finds people who react to him negatively; those who call him an 'elitist' or an intellectual do not like the fact that he has used the word 'diurnality' in his prose.

Now, here's a curious phenomenon: Franzen, an author who seems quite at odds with the modern world, achieves success in the form of an endorsement from Oprah Winfrey.  Ophah Winfrey, who could hardly be less controversial and more banal than Franzen, endorsed his novel "The Corrections".  Suddenly, Franzen had more publicity than he had ever had before; a film crew wanted him to go back to his childhood house in St. Louis, and he started receiving hate mail, from those self-satisfied mensches in the midwest who do not like the "diurnality" in his prose.

What do we have here?  Well, I'm not an earnest person, and my admittedly cynical take on this whole scenario (which at once seems to befuddle and concern Franzen) is that many people who could charitably be called casual readers have their choices distilled for them by Oprah.  In general, this is an admirable goal; anything that increases the amount people read has to be a good thing if we accept that reading itself is intrinsically good.  But a unexpected problem arises when you are dealing with a person like Winfrey.  Winfrey is successful because of her safe banality; she does not, to use a cliche, push boundaries, nor does she demand much of her viewers.  Her "I'm Ok, you're OK" rhetoric has earned her millions, in both fans and dollars.

Thus, we have the endorsement of a novel like "The Corrections," which, as I understand it, explores the existential angst of three smug, self-absorbed urbanites who, in certain ways, pine for the quotidian pleasures that their suburban parents take for granted.  All well and good.  But, ahh, that writing.  The demands, the heavy use of abstruse words.  Why "diurnality"?  Why not just "daily" or some such other simple, immediately accessible word?  We want our reading like we want our Oprah!  Spoonfed to us so we know what to think, what to feel, and how to react.

Therein lies Franzen's troubles: he wants to be alone in the world, to think, to cogitate, to enjoy language and the written word, and, well, everyone else seems to want the artifice of American pop culture
