Petersen-Schepelern encourages her readers to think creatively about salads; her recipes may can be used  "for a light snack or a substantial meal, to serve as an appetizer, or as a palate-cleanser between the entree and the cheese. There's even a fruit salad..."

She's a Danish-Australian food writer and editor whose recipes are influenced by many cuisines. Recipes include "Tatsoi, avocado, and frisee (tatsoi is a "crisp baby Chinese leaf sold in many markets," she never explains "frisee"--it has leaves, I gathered), Lebanese tabbouleh, Tuscan panzanella, Japanese soba noodle salad, and over 25 others. Chapters are divided into the introduction ("there's more to salads..."); leaves and herbs; vegetables; fish, chicken, and meat; beans, grains and noodles; fruits; dressings (two Asian-based, four pesto variations, vinaigrette variations, and several based on your very own homemade mayonnaise); and an index.

The book is attractively presented, with nice close-up photographs; I suspect that this is why many people buy it. While directions are clear (quite precise, actually), many of the recipes include a number of ingredients, some of which may be difficult to find.  However, those familiar with cooking and buying will find these very manageable.  Tonno e fagiolo (Italian tuna and beans) includes a large tuna steak ("or two small cans of good quality tuna, about 6 oz. each, drained"), olive oil, red onions, fresh garlic, sherry or white wine vinegar, 4 cups of cooked or canned (she does recognize time constraints) flageolet (she informs us these are green, otherwise I know nothing about them from the book) or cannellini beans (or a mixture of the two), fresh basil leaves and small sprigs, sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.

Overall, some delicious looking recipes, and some interesting combinations ("e.g., Rare beef salad with parsley oil and wasabi mayonnaise).  In the beef salad recipe, by the way, she informs us "when you serve it, cut slices of beef about 1/2 inch thick: there's nothing worse than mean little paper-thin slices--it always looks as if you bought them at a deli." Well!  She does take her salads seriously.  If you do too, and want a brief and attractive book with new ideas, you may enjoy this collection
