Nominated for the National Book Award for this debut novel, Christine Schutt creates an impressionistic and moving picture of young Alice Fivey's difficult life from age five, when she is left fatherless, until she is in her thirties.  When her mother's mental problems lead to her stay in "the San" within a year of her father's death, Alice is shuttled among family members, living at various times with her Uncle Billy and Aunt Frances, who systematically appropriate her mother's belongings, and for several years with Nonna, her grandmother, who is bedridden and unable to talk.

Schutt presents short, jewel-like memories of the past as they come unbidden to the growing Alice, filling them with the kind of descriptive detail which children remember so vividly.  As Alice tries to reconcile the present with the past, she confronts and tries to understand life's big issues--acts of fate, illness, death, and love and their effects on families and one's dreams.  Her peripatetic childhood leaves her without strong family role models and even less guidance, but she does form several meaningful friendships which are crucial to her development--with Arthur, a family retainer, and with Mr. Early, her high school English teacher, who encourages her writing talent.

When Alice, in her twenties, reconnects with her mother, she tries to sort through her mother's confused recollections to learn something about her father, but she also learns much about her mother and about the family dynamics involving her parents, her grandmother, and her aunt and uncle.  As time passes and death takes its toll on those around her, Alice dreams about all the might-have-been moments, wishing that she could "look at the clock to see how much time you have left." 

Repeating symbols unify the novel.  Alice's parents believe that "In Florida...it was good health all the time," and Florida becomes a symbol for the good life.  Arthur even makes a "Florida" for her mother, a sun-tanning box which her mother uses during the winter.  Her mother's self-destructive relationship with someone named Walter, leads Alice to refer to other men in bad relationships as "Walter," while Arthur, the humble man whose kindness and desire to serve never flags, is the Good Man.  Slowly, Schutt assembles a picture of Alice, her life and family, and her special friends--Arthur and Mr. Early--while illustrating her growing independence and strength.  Presented in spare, simple style which avoids melodrama, the novel uses the intimate scene, the unique observation about life, and the poetic detail to flesh out and bring to life the story of Alice and her family. n Mary Whipple
