"More Than Human" by Theodore Sturgeon is a ground-breaking novel and the winner of the International Fantasy award in 1954 for fiction.  It was also recognized by the fans in 1956 when it tied for 3rd on the Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll, and in 1966 when it was rated 19th on the same poll.  It ranked 9th on the Locus All-Time Poll in 1975 for All Time Novels, 12th in 1987 for All Time SF Novels, and 13th in 1998 for SF Novels before 1990.  It was also nominated for the Retro Hugo in 2004 for works published in 1953.

Sturgeon tells his story by using three shorter works.  They tell the story of the next step in the evolution of man, which is named "Homo Gestalt".  As separate people, Lone, Janie, Bonnie, Beanie, and Baby do not fit into society, but when they are together, they are a fully functional being.  There are some tells in my description of the three parts of the story, so skip the rest if you don't want to risk any spoilers.  The three parts of the story are:

"The Fabulous Idiot" is a novelette which was first published in this book.  It is the story of the creation of `Homo Gestalt'.  It focuses largely on the story of Lone, who is the `idiot' from the title.  For most of his life, he is largely ignored, although he does have telepathy and mind control powers that he uses, unknowingly, to get people to casually give him food or money so that he can survive.  We also learn about of Janie (telekinesis), and the twins, Bonnie and Beanie (teleportation), and Baby (super-intelligent).  This story jumps around from group to group, giving the reader the back-story for the characters, and eventually brings them together, and at the end they learn their roles in `Homo Gestalt'.

"Baby Is Three" is a novella which was originally published in "Galaxy" in October of 1952.  This story takes place a few years in the future, from the viewpoint of Gerry, who is seeking help from a psychiatrist to help him understand who he is.  While exploring his past, we learn that Lone brought Gerry into the group and that when Lone died, the group stayed together seeking help from an old acquaintance of Lone, whom we met briefly in the first section.  As Gerry gains understanding and recovers memories, we ultimately find that he is Lone's replacement in `Homo Gestalt', and while Lone's simplicity was a handicap for the group before, Gerry's lack of morals is the new challenge to their survival.

"Morality" is a novelette which was originally published in this book.  This part of the story follows Hip Barrows, who is desperately trying to recover his lost memories.  Somewhat similar in style to the previous section, it takes place a few years farther in the future, and it is a character reconstructing the past.  Hip is aided in his attempts to reconstruct his past by Janie.  We learn that Gerry decided to destroy Hip's life and that even while trying to remember, they are being pursued by Gerry and the rest of `Homo Gestalt'.  Hip's only chance for survival is if he can make Gerry understand the need for an ethic for the new species
