I, Claudius is hailed as a classic of the 20th century and one of the greatest works of historical fiction.  It is narrated as an autobiography of the fourth emperor of Rome, the supposedly simple Claudius.  It details the chaotic, soap-operatic story of the Roman nobility under the emperors Augusts, Tiberius, and Caligula which eventually lead to Claudius' own ascendence as Emperor in 41 AD.

This book was easy to read (a lot of names to remember though) and at times very entertaining - though I'm not sure if someone less interested in history than I would feel the same way.  Graves obviously knows and has great command of Roman History which makes this a facinating learning experience as well.  I also thought that this book dealt with some very interesting themes involving power and rule.  

But as someone who read his source material - I read Suetonius, Livy, and Plutarch in college - I was actually dissapointed in how closely he adhered to those materials.  Anyone who has read Roman histories from that period knows how much of a soap opera they are and how monotonous the political machinations can get, and I was hoping that Graves while using those sources for his overall story and historical accuracy would stray a little more in his story telling style.      

I guess I was hoping for something a little closer to Joseph Heller's God Knows.  I don't mean that I was hoping for a comedy, just that I wanted to read an ancient story without ancient storytelling techniques.

In fact, I thought the book was at its best and most powerful when Graves steps away from the soap opera and gives the story some perspective.  At a few times during the story Claudius assures the reader that despite the tumultous in-fighting of the nobility the Roman Empire had never been more prosperous or stable - or that the great majority of the empire was completely unaffected by the chaos in its ruling ranks.  And, not to give too much away here, at the deathbed of what would be considered the main "villian" of the story - interesting questions are raised as to what it takes to rule, and what moral sacrifices must be made for the good of the many.  

I will admit there is a power in the very scarcity of these moments - in the fact that I as the reader became immersed in the intricate web of the ruling class only to be briefly shown how unimportant that web really is in the grand scheme of things.  Regardless, I wish that those moments made up a greater bulk of the book.

Like I said though, I did enjoy this book.  And I would definitely recommend it, especially to those who have an interest in history or classical studies.  It's not for everyone though, and I can easily see how those without an interest in history would find this book much less accesible than I did
