This book of narrative poetry is divided into four sections.  Most notable in this collection is Levine's presupposing his readers.  In the first poem, the speaker asks, "Can you imagine the air filled with-smoke?/ It was."  The first ten lines of Salt and Oil really sum-up how Levine skillfully envisions his audience.  In this piece, three men are introduced, the narrator calls one Salt and the other Oil.  Levine withholds naming the third man and writes:  "'The third man,' you ask, `who was the third man in the photograph?'  There is no/ photograph, no mystery./ Only Salt and Oil..."  He uses this device in many other poems, and uses it very effectively.  Again, in Cesare, Levine manipulates the reader by painting a portrait of this friend, Cesare and then Levine shocks the reader with, "of course I never knew any Cesare..."  And in case the reader skimmed over that, he rephrases it in the next line, "he died before I left Detroit, before/ I had a chance..." And if the reader is still confused/incredulous, Levine says it once more, "I'm really talking/ about someone else I can't name..."  Strangely enough, as the reader, I wasn't off-put by this - Levine had such a gentle, trustworthy voice that I was willing to follow.  How interesting:  his persuasiveness and my willingness!

Levine's an alert man who listens, waits, and writes-of it.  These pieces have vivid, concrete language but, unfortunately, with little imagery.  In the poem The Sea We Read About, the reader finds the metaphysical, symbolic, and allegorical.   I was carried by lines like, "...the sea spread out, limitless and changing/ everything, and that I would get there some day."  Oh, that elusive "there," that long-away "some day."  In poems like these, Levine speaks to the collective psyche.  

Levine has some lovely moments and surprising, poetic diction, like this from Caught a Glimpse:  "The moment is so full/ I have to close my eyes..."  And from the poem, Night Words, "...snow gathers/ on their shoulders and scalds their ungloved hands."  He touches on an intriguing concept here:  let's dream today of our literal future as if we're self-soothsayers while we dream.  Also in The Dead there's a particularly wonderful image:  "he scurried off, the oranges/ tumbling out of the dark sack, one/ after another, a short bright trail/ left on the sidewalk..."  Another beautiful moment can be found in the last two stanzas of The Evening, this idea of "...leafing through the great book of days."  I won't call Levine a man of great poetics, but I will refer to him as a man with poetics of great meaning.  

However, I have two qualms with this book.  In many of Levine's poems, he tends to end with the expository; a lot of these stanzas just feel like summations and don't necessarily push the theme (e.g. The Unknowable, Philosophy Lesson, The Mercy).  Secondly, Levine has a consistent form he uses throughout:  a single stanza, longish line poem which usually runs a full page.  This form was fine for most of the pieces.  But what about the poems which beg a shorter line and shorter length?  For example, He Would Never Use One Word Where None Would Do seems to contradict itself in its context, as compared to its form.  Form usually follows function for maximum impact (unless, of course, there's tension in the way form is used in a contrary fashion).  Specifically, this poem expands on the uselessness of over-talk; it's a poem about silence but without much silence itself.  I would expect a poem on wordiness to be less wordy.  One thing that Levine does do right in this poem is introducing this lovely, curious metaphor: "Fact is silence is the perfect water..."
