"An Army For Empire" is proof of the saying that, in military matters, amateurs speak of tactics while professionals speak of logistics.  Much of this book deals with the history of the organization and supply of the U. S. Army during the Spanish American War.  Relatively few pages are devoted to narration of the actual combat.

Much of the story of the preparation of the Army dealt with the sometimes stormy relationships between President McKinley, Secretary of War Alger, Commanding General Of The Army Miles, Adjutant General Corbin, General Shafter, Commander in Cuba, and more minor characters.  Cosmas points out the challenges confronting the administration which contributed to the disorganization and poor food for which it was criticized.  Legal restrictions on the deployment of National Guard units complicated the recruitment of volunteer troops.  Problems arose out of the incompatibility of equipment among the state militias.  Political tugs of war between regular and state forces complicated staffing.  Limited ordnance production capabilities constrained material accumulation.  Shifting war aims introduced inefficiencies into the deployment of troops.  The post hostility problems with tropical diseases and their stateside ramifications receive in depth analysis.  All in all, Cosmas concludes that the War Department succeeded, by war's end, in developing a suitable Army for Empire.

Cosmas does a good job in explaining how the shifting war aims drove changes in invasion plans.  Whereas original debate centered over attacks on Havana or Puerto Rico, the discovery of Adm. Cervera's fleet in Santiago Harbor compelled a landing near Santiago.  The reader learns that the seemingly irrational departure of the Spanish fleet from Santiago was done under orders.  The resulting destruction of the Spanish fleet cut the army off from its sources of supply and condemned it to either starvation or surrender.  

Cosmas show how inefficiencies turned up in unexpected places.  Despite the longer trip, the expedition to the Philippines was better organized than the one to Cuba.  As things turned out, the Army raised about twice as many volunteer troops as it used.

Having read other books about the Spanish American War, "An Army For Empire" supplemented what I already knew.  It tied things together and showed the "whys" behind the "whats".  For this it was worthwhile.  I thought that the extensive verbage about supply and organization may prove boring, but it never did.  I would not recommend this as a first book about the Spanish American war.  I do recommend it to deepen the understanding of the mature reader
