
On page 471, Elliot reveals his personal challenge: how to be still in the face of experience so that the task of keen observation is funneled neither towards a previously used emotion, nor directed towards an abstracted intellectual exercise.  His goal is to "fashion some intermediary vessel in which to bear the raw impressions of life..."so that he can experience "a sort of stretching, a deepening of one's ability to stand up to life and absorb it as it happens."  

Elliot thereby himself gives us the measure by which to assess his book.  For me, as much as I marveled at his attention to detail, his willingness to describe landscape, the shapes of peoples faces, the things and human wares that make up a life, and as much as I so often felt his prose to convey an exact impression, nevertheless, I also felt that I needed him to be still, or rather, more still.  By calling attention to them, his words too often get in the way of my reading experience and perhaps of his own desires.  

But Elliot's inability to reach his goal did not detract me from admiring the depth of his ambition.  And there are many, many passages whose elegant beauty seems as simply perfect as Afghanistan's topography, culture, and people.  There is no question that his knowledge and love of Afghanistan is great even as he regrets the limits of his understanding.  

For my needs this book answers a few questions that have long been my companions.  First, for those trained in the hubris of modernity what kind of attitude, risk, and posture is necessary in order to find something of value in Afghanistan?  Every page of this book is a tribute to a people and a place whose relative value -- to those who calculate life's worth in terms of utility instead of grace -- usually approaches zero.  For his re-evaluation of Afghanistan alone Elliot deserves a hug strong enough to lift him off his feet.

Second, as I read the countless times and ways in which Elliot risks his life, I wondered.  I wondered about his sanity but also about whether he might have uncovered a way of being a warrior.  Warriors, I have read, for example, in the soviet accounts of their experience in Afghanistan as well as in works inspired by the philosopher Hegel, are attracted to the spectacle of war.  Their deepest motivations are grounded in the need to risk their lives for a perceived ethical cause.  Klingons.  As long as there is honor in risking one's life for such causes, there will be warriors.  And war.  

In Elliot's account the warrior's motivations are transposed, internally one might say, so that risking one's life ennobles and enables the lives of others.  He risks his life to find the value of others, not to de-humanize and then deprive them.

Elliot might be surprised by how his writing triggered my thoughts on warriors.  More likely, he might be intrigued and satisfied by my extension.  He might think that the willingness to be still and observe the beauty and significance of particular moments in life is exactly what allows his readers to find their own resonance in his account.  Through him, I find "a sort of stretching, a deepening" of my ability.  For that, I offer him another hug and a cup of hot sweet chai. 

Finally, I must say what a sadness it was for me to approach the book's last few pages.  I feel a loss for his company and guidance.  We must live in interesting times if a book by an Afghan is crashing failure (The Kite Runner), whereas one written by the product of a former occupying empire, seems so redemptive.  
