In the realm of fantasy there are several names that stand out: Tolkien, C. S. Lewis, Lloyd Alexander, Susan Cooper, Diana Wynne Jones (and more recently, Philip Pullman, J. K. Rowling and Garth Nix). Ursula le Guin also belongs into this category, contributing to the world of fantasy-literature her beloved "Earthsea" novels, chronicling the life and times of the wizard Ged.

The strength of the storytelling comes in the unashamed use of archetypes and symbolism. The story as a whole could be easily aligned with Carl Jung's theories or Joseph Campbell's "Hero's Journey" complete with Departure, Initiation and Return, and archetypes such as the wise mentor, the female temptress and the shadow. It's practically a textbook case, but rather than being predictable and dull; le Guin's skill as a writer means that the series is densely packed with meaning and intrigue. 

But the use of archetype has its downside too, particularly in the portrayals of men and women; Ged attends a wizarding school that is populated entirely by males, in a later book "The Tombs of Atuan", he is pitted against a cult of malevolent priestesses. Le Guin has recently expressed regret for these borderline-stereotypes and in later books makes the conscious effort to balance out the gender inequality that permeates the earlier books. For me however, (and probably to most readers) it is no big deal - we are, after all dealing with traditional archetypes and in one very important way (that I probably shouldn't even be mentioning) le Guin completely breaks the mould on typical fantasy stories. Ged and nearly all of the other characters have copper complexions. Can you think of any other major fantasy novel in which the protagonist is not Caucasian? I can't.

Le Guin's finest creation is her world of Earthsea, a world made up of ocean currents and a myriad of different islands, each one with their own cultures and customs, rich and detailed. It is second only to Middle-Earth, and only becomes richer and deeper with each passing novel. Likewise is le Guin's system of magic, based on the power of names and speech; the reason why Ged goes through so many name-changes (he is born as Duny, given the name Sparrowhawk at puberty and has Ged as his `true name', his name of power). It is a powerful and consistent system and based on real ancient beliefs (read some Egyptian mythology if you don't believe me). 

Ged is born to a poor farming island, though with immense potential for wizardry which he is all to eager to engage. After he assists in saving his community through the instigation of magic beyond his years, he is approached by the great wizard Ogion who offers to mentor him. Enraptured with dreams of power and glory, he follows Ogion only to be frustrated by his slow teaching methods, opting instead to travel to Roke and enrol in the great wizarding school there.

It is there he enters a friendship with fellow student Vetch and a rivalry with another student named Jasper. Letting his pride and resentment get the better of him, Ged attempts to summon up a spirit from the dead, but only manages to unleash a terrible shadow upon the world. Now hunted by his own creation, Ged takes to the seas, hopping from island to island, in the attempt to escape - and then destroy - the evil he has unleashed.  

Despite my praise, the story isn't perfect; I always felt that the prose was a little stiff and un-involving, almost as if we were reading a detailed overview of the story rather than one told from a person's intimate point of view. Likewise, the story takes forever to really get started - since the chapters are quite long, it takes a while before the shadow is unleashed. However, the patient will be rewarded, in this and subsequent books
