I am confused by some of the other reviews of this book. Not just by the low scores, but also with the comments therein. The majority of the complaints about the book seem to be directed at Heinlien's political views and his adamantness derived therefrom. Now this is all well and good, everybody is entitled to their opinion, but the weird this is... THERE ARE ALMOST NO POLITICS IN THIS BOOK! Okay, so what is the book about then? Well, it's exactly what you'd expect, it focuses mainly on Robert's writing career. Sure, there are a few political meanderings here and there, but they are extremely few and far between. Such off-target reviews are almost enough to make one wonder whether or not these people actually read the book. Instead, this book consists of a large body of letters that were written before and (usually) after the publication of a Heinlein opus. From his first published stories, to his juveniles, to his controversial adult novels, they're all covered here. The letters show a lot about what went into the making of his works, and also shows some other interesting things, such as the trouble that RAH seemingly always had with editors and getting his words out like he wanted to. There is also a picture and sypnosis of the original version of most of the stories and novels that RAH put out. There are also letters on various other topics (such as travel, house-building, domestic life, etc.), plus a short biography of Robert (written by his wife), and a highly convenient bibliography. My only complaint about the book is that there is almost no mention made of his books written after I Will Fear No Evil. True, this isn't his best work, but they are important, and do indeed contain some fine novels (JOB, Friday). Perhaps, due to the author's deteoriating health at this time, there weren't really any letters written. However, one wishes whatever there was was included so as to make this book complete. Thus, it's not perfect, but certainly not as bad as some other have apparently made it out to be
