Following up on BUSH AT WAR and PLAN OF ATTACK, Bob Woodward again chronicles the Bush administration's upper level workings through the opinions of those officials who granted him interviews and access to their journals and notes. The result leaves the reader with the distinct impression that no one in the upper echelons really possesses the strength of character or the clarity of thought and ability to plan strategically. Certainly not to any degree that citizens might expect. Donald Rumsfeld is quoted: "The charge of incompetence against the U.S. government should be easy to rebut if the American people understand the extent to which the current system of government makes competence next to impossible." Well. Although the sheer size of our bloated bureaucracy is no doubt a factor, STATE OF DENIAL: BUSH AT WAR, PART III demonstrates quite unimpeachably that Rumsfeld and many others who serve at the pleasure of the president have failed to shape, let alone implement, a constructive and sustainable policy with regard to Iraq. And although the buck does stop with President Bush -- both with regard to the Iraq policy itself and to the choice of his advisers -- the book paints a dire picture of department principals and deputies, top military officers, and other appointees and careerists who cannot even agree on objectives, let alone attain them. Infighting, backbiting, personal ambition, pettiness, arrogance, territoriality all hinder effective governance. 

Arguably, the book is a bit on the gossipy side for a serious piece of journalism. Sometimes, despite its length, it doesn't have much to say about certain pivotal occurrences (such as Abu Ghraib) -- presumably because those interviewed didn't discuss certain subjects much. The book takes pages to provide background on many of the interviewees. And occasionally, Woodward's own opinions creep in. These characteristics can detract from the goal of the book to inform about the timeline and substance of U.S. Iraq policy. However, the author demonstrably intends to be a conduit for those he interviewed. So, the gossip, lack of certain details, background excesses, and author interjections are part and parcel of the flavor of the backbone interviews.  

Of course, as one reads STATE OF DENIAL, one must take into account whose opinion is being reflected and assess it on those terms. The criticisms and complaints that many government officials had about one another but evidently seldom expressed, either to those about whom they had complaints or to their superiors, must be evaluated on their own merits and in overall context. President Bush, Woodward concedes, would not consent to another interview for this book, so he is depicted through the eyes of others and a few remnants from previous interviews. Secretary Rumsfeld (soon-to-be-former SecDef, as of yesterday) did speak with Woodward, and one can almost hear his voice and his inflections in the verbatim bits of those interviews in the book. It is almost funny how he "answers" questions with deflections or questions of his own. Almost funny.

With Donald Rumsfeld now slated to be replaced by Robert Gates, former CIA chief, the last two years of the Bush presidency and the fate of Bush's failing Iraq policies might be very different from what they would have been had Rumsfeld completed the second term along with Bush. Woodward will probably produce a BUSH AT WAR IV (perhaps even a V) to cover those upcoming events. There never seems to be a shortage of in-power and out-of-power people who will talk to him. 

STATE OF DENIAL offers very valuable insider insights into the processes that led us into Iraq and keep us there. It is highly recommended
