This is an immensely interesting & provocative little book by Ray Kurzweil. Because of its ultimately predictive nature, this book will raise many eyebrows (there is even a discussion on neo-luddites!) & more erudite people probably will ask more questions than this book answers. Nevertheless, this book will hold you spellbound at least until the predictions begin.


For the readership interested in technology, it provides many, many interesting facts & stimulating theories around it. One of these is surely the "law of accelerating returns" & the way technological advancement throughout history can be understood in the light of this law & its corollaries. 

Another big learning is about the computational models - the recursive, the genetic & finally the evolutionary. It is fascinating to learn how these models work, & how these models are being implemented in many niche domains including investments in primary markets. 

A third big plus of the book is snippets of discussions on technologies which are still emerging & far from being main stream including invasive & non invasive scanning of the human brain, the state of virtual reality, etc. 

Kurzweil also does a good job of raising some very fundamental questions. Primary among these is that of artificial consciousness. However, these are likely to be debates raging for years & sometimes these questions, though raised, are not conclusively answered & insipidly dealt with. 

Each chapter ends with a conversation between Molly - a machine (though a conscious one!) & Kurzweil. Perhaps the idea was to summarize the chapter in a novel way & throw in a bit of humour. In both respects, Kurzweil's success is moderate.

As far as the predictions are concerned, time will tell. In the world today, the state of technology is not as pervasive as Kurzweil's book seems to imply. More children die of disease & hunger each day in Africa than the developed world seems to care about. It has been almost a decade since Dolly, the sheep, was cloned. However, cloning as a technology remains behind closed doors. The socio-politico-economic consequences of development remain an issue that needs time, understanding & categorization.

Nevertheless, this remains an important book - to get a technology-focused point of view & then to take the learnings & evaluate them in the context of the broader world we live in. And no computer can do that yet.

S!
