I have followed Kevin Powell's career from the days on MTV's Real World to his stint as editor at VIBE magazine to his memoir &quot;Keeping it Real&quot;.  He has compiled here a magnificent volume of Gen X African American writers who are intelligent and thought provoking.   Where do I start? Well for one I have to disagree with the previous reviewer about Powell's anger.  I think the introduction was a prelude to the rest of the great writing.  Angry?  I think not.  He's just keeping it real.  That said, this book is not just Kevin Powell, though he does have a moving essay that I read a few years ago in VIBE- &quot;Live From Death Row&quot; which gives the background of the label of Tupac Shakur, among others.   There is other hip-hop journalism from Joan Morgan and Farai Chideya, two of my favorites.  Scott-Poulson-Bryant's view of Puff Daddy in &quot;This is Not a Puff Piece&quot; is illuminating.  I was thrilled with the essay section. Prolific writers such as Veronica Chambers torn between family and integrity with &quot;Mama's Girl&quot;, Lisa Jones exploring multiculturism with &quot;Are We Tiger Woods yet?&quot;, and Lonnae O'Neal Parker's revealing portrait in &quot;White Girl&quot;.  The criticism section has Erin Aubrey examing Ebonics/Black English in &quot;The Soul of Black Talk&quot;.   Poetry by Ruth Forman and Lenard D. Moore, among many others; fiction by Junot Diaz, a humorous, touching story, &quot;The Sun, the Moon, the Stars&quot;; Edwidge Danticat, Tannarive Due.  There is a Dialogue section as well.  The list of talent is endless; Paul Beatty, Danzy senna, Danyel Smith.  Valerie Boyd's &quot;In Search of Alice Walker&quot; tells about going to Ms. Walker's hometown and the legacy there of Uncle Remus.  I get exhausted just trying to remember what I have read.  I purchased this book as a gift to myself on December 21 and by the end of the month, I have read almost over half the some 460 pages.  And the bios, the bios are worth the price of the book.  They give insight to the writers character and uncanny genius.  I just found out that Powell edited another anthology &quot;The New Black Literature&quot; in the early 90s. I want to get that and make a comparison.  This anthology is well worth every cent.  Treat yourself real soon
