Religion. How is it that for the majority it is a way of worship, enlightenment, and ethical conduct, while for others, it becomes a weapon for destructiveness and the worst in human behavior? Dr. Kimball, who has a long list of some very impressive credentials, takes us on a short journey to witness how faiths that start out on their true paths, become susceptible to any of the five warning signs as it heads towards polluted waters. 

From the dark side of Christian "Love" through the ages to those who have bastardized Islam today, the book focuses on the five warning signs and are explored from cults, to mainstream religions, in different degrees and assorted times, and amongst various groups both ancient and modern. 

Ranging anywhere from exclusivism to outright religious anarchy, the author's writing shines as he focuses on religious corruption within the three Abrahamic teachings in the context of current social, economic, and political factors where communities fragmented by conflict, economic, or social inequities, and even political division, produce collective ideologies and zealots of all stripes. 

In the last chapter he writes that people of all faiths should be able to share their core beliefs while remembering that "one's own experience of God does not exhaust all possibilities." He claims it is possible to embrace "religious pluralism" and still stay true to ones own faith. A couple of the reviewers seem to miss his point by arguing that he is trying to blur religious lines... I do not think so. What he IS saying, and the point I believe he is trying to make is that how people of different faiths relate to each other has never been more urgent then it is today. He himself (a Christian Baptist minister) admits "..in my study and experience, I have yet to discover truths that compel me to embrace another religious tradition as my own." (p208) The author doesn't want you to abandon your religion, he wants you to embrace it yet at the same time build bridges to people of other faiths. Although I can't agree with everything in the book, it is still a welcome addition in contrast to those who simply stereotype or demonize other faiths.
