There's been so much discussion online about the development of a VJing book, but this one wins the prize as the first - or at least the first to make it into our letterbox. As a trailblazing tome on such a complex and rapidly growing and changing field, I can certainly forgive it a few errors and omissions.

The DVD is just OK - all the best material on it has already appeared elsewhere, such as the Eyewash Sessions, and there are some inclusions that I can't for the life of me see as VJing in any way. Calling something VJing isn't an excuse for a badly made music video clip. But hey, even without the DVD, the book's good value so just consider it a bonus.

The book is short and covers some complex technical topics a little too flippantly at times - eg, as a PC/Resolume user, my guess is that their criticisms of that program's poor performance were due to use of incompatible codecs with their clips. Perhaps if they'd got user reviews by professional VJs for each of the main packages it would have been more accurate and balanced.

Having said that, this book isn't about technicalities. The writers' and interviewees' passion for what they do is palpable. The main message of the book, at least to my mind, is that it doesn't matter HOW you do what you do, and that there is no right or wrong way to VJ. It's an art, and no instruction-book is going to make you any good at it, if 'it' isn't inside you.

There is a fairly American focus, but that's fair enough. The European, Australasian and other regional cliques can write our own books. This is a great starting point. If we Aussies want to claim credit for modern VJing thanks to the Fairlight CVI, that's another whole book to write.

The most wonderful thing about the book (and the reason I've bought 8 copies to give away already) is the historical contextualisation. I knew there were some early experiments with Colour-Music, but I had no idea they went back to the 1700's, when clavessins were made with precious stones, mirrors, lenses and candles to project coloured light. I want one!

A quote from the book that I think applies equally to anyone considering buying "the VJ Book":

"In writing these pages, I have felt myself to be addressing two classes of readers, namely those who know something of the art of Mobile Color, its past history, its hopes and its aims; and others who have never even heard of the subject...from the latter, I would ask for as open-minded a consideration of the subject as they can give me." AW Rimington, Colour-Music (1912).

Here, here.

VJ kattyb, VJzoo.co
