Albertina Merci is a real firecracker.  The 70-year-old R&B singer turned minister has more spunk than some women half her age.   She has a level head, a love of God, and a way of bringing out the best in the people around her.

In SANCTIFIED BLUES, Albertina meets Maggie Clay, queen of daytime television, in the midst of a nervous breakdown.   As the tabloids are abuzz with the star's escapades eagerly awaiting her self-destruction, it is only with infinite patience that Albertina can weather her rocky relationship with Maggie in hopes of helping her get back on the right path. 

While Albertina is very devout, she is open-minded in a way that keeps the authors from alienating non-Christian readers.   Albertina is written in a way that readers can't help but envy her fortitude and generosity.  She is a sympathetic character precisely because she does lose patience and she does get mad; she too must struggle to do the right thing. 

Although the book focuses most on Albertina's relationship with Maggie Clay, it does introduce a number of other interesting and three-dimensional characters who will probably appear in future Merci novels including Justine, a naïve neighbor who falls for all the wrong men, and Patrick, her strong-willed nephew who's afraid of breaking all his own rules. 

SANCTIFIED BLUES is a great start to what promises to be an interesting series.  While it is printed by Harlem Moon, an imprint that targets African-American readers, this book and the series to follow will appeal to a diverse group of readers.   Fans of Jan Karon's Mitford series in particular should give SANCTIFIED BLUES a try.

Much like Albertina, Mable John was a successful R&B singer--having received a Pioneer Award from the Rhythm and Blues Foundation in 1994--before she became an ordained minister and received a doctorate in counseling.   Coauthored by David Ritz; who has written biographies of Marvin Gaye and Jimmy Scott and co-authored the autobiographies of Ray Charles, Aretha Franklin, B.B. King, and Smokey Robinson, among others; SANCTIFIED BLUES is Mable John's first novel.
