After hearing a recent review of this series on NPR in which they went to great lengths to praise this series, I decided to go to my local comic shop and pick up a copy. My thoughts were that a graphic novel with this kind of publicity can't be all that everyone claims it to be, but after reading it I was pleasantly surprised and definitely glad I checked out the series.

The premise of the series is that all males (human and non-human) on Earth suddenly die, with the exception of a man and his pet male monkey. Post-apocalyptic explorations are nothing new, with books like "The Girl Who Owned a City" and films like 'Day After Tommorow' and the Mad Max series exploring the concept extensively. With only the females of every species remaining alive, it is up to human women to pick up the pieces and move on. I suspect that one reason this series has received so much attention is in how women are empowered in these books. Yes, there are some who are not up to the task, but most take the opportunity to rise up or at least search for some semblance of normality.

The model turned garbage woman character is a prime example of this 'rising'. Once someone who was largely controlled and exploited by men, she is now an equal to any man (and then some), showing that a woman can do even the most mundane of jobs as good or better than any man, and with a strong sense of cunning and self-preservation. The series also has its radical, unexpected elements, such as the Israeli chief of staff in the Napoleonic mold. On the other hand, one fully expects to see Mad Max-esque `Amazons' running rampant wreaking havoc.

Overall though, this series is both something old that we've seen before and something new that we haven't. What make this series engrossing are the multiple interweaving plotlines which the author has woven together well to make for a highly readable story. The story is far from predictable, and keeps the reader coming back for more. Fans of graphic novels or comics in general and the uninitiated alike will both be rewarded by checking out this series
