
Over 10 years ago, accomplished journalist Robert Wright wrote the acclaimed "Moral Animal," summarizing the findings of the new (or at least reborn and renamed) science, evolutionary psychology.  I read, reread, and underlined "The Moral Animal," convinced that I had finally found an explanation for human behavior I could wholeheartedly believe in.  With great expectation, I approached "Nonzero."   

In "Nonzero," Wright relies on "Moral Animal," but has a much more ambitious thesis.  He draws heavily on game theory, which can be played from a competitive point of view (I win, you lose) or a co-operative one (win - win).  He acknowledges the constant presence of both types of games in human interaction, then relentlessly develops the hypothesis that real cultural progress is always the result of technological advance PLUS a co-operative (nonzero sum) cultural interaction.  Progress builds on itself and a complex society eventually develops.

In Part I (long), Wright considers hunter-gatherers, agriculturalists, war, culture, technology, chiefdoms, barbarians, China, Romans, Dark Ages, modern times, and the Globalization of world commerce.  One by one, he uses impeccable logic to show how progress in cultural evolution has been made through co-operation, and how improved technology then forced further nonzero sum games.

In Part II (short), he applies the same thinking to biological evolution.

In Part III (short), he ambitiously speculates on the meaning of life, God, and Globalization issues.

This is a very different book than "Moral Animal."  In that situation, Wright took an already coalescing collection of data about a new field of study and presented it in a cohesive form for public consumption.  Matt Ridley did the same in his excellent book, "Red Queen," while a whole group of similar thinking scientists cheered them both on.

In "Nonzero," Wright cuts across several disciplines, developing his own ideas, alone.  For this, he has been criticized by academians from history, biology, philosophy, anthropology, economics, politics, and theology, despite his rough drafts being critiqued by representatives from all these disciplines.

Although Wright makes a good case, his subject matter is more amenable to speculation than proof.  Evolution has hard evidence from molecular biology, the fossil record, DNA, and elsewhere, and every new finding fits easily into the framework of existing knowledge.  Not so with the game theory analysis of historical cultural evolution - any plausible theory can be just as logically advocated as the next.

That being said, Wright makes a compelling argument with valid points on every page, and writes in an informal, conversational, non-abrasive style.  Throughout the chaos of history, he concentrates on the good (progress) that accrues, even if he's describing the barbaric overthrow of a society that had become corrupt - always maintaining a "fireside chat" style sense of humor:  "This view of history, intent on generalizing, ignores the fascinating and consequential differences between civilizations.  For people who lodge this complaint...you're in luck!  There are thousands of books you'll love reading..."

Probably you'll disagree with some of Wright's conclusions, but that does not make the reading of this book any less compelling.  Like "Moral Animal," it is firmly grounded in evolutionary psychology, and is a highly entertaining, educational, and unique sidetrip through history from Wright's specific point of view - that despite the uncomfortable constant tension between competitive and co-operative games people play, the zerosum game alone contributes to cultural progress.       
