Killing the Spirit, by Page Smith

Page Smith taught at UCLA and wrote an eight-volume "People's History" of America. This book analyzes the sources of the current crisis in higher education by giving its history. The 'Introduction' tells of Smith's experiences in education, and his following of the writings of Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy. In Chapter 1 Smith lists his theme: the impoverishment of the spirit, the flight from teaching, meretricious research, the alliance with the Defense Dept., and the corruption from "big-time" collegiate sports. This book focuses on the "so-called elite universities". "Academic fundamentalism" describes the closed minds of academia. What kind of university is one where teachers hate teaching (p.6)? The "vast majority of the so-called research ... is essentially worthless" (p.7). It is busywork that robs students of a very costly education. Federal research funds corrupt the universities (p.10). Who pays the piper calls the tune. The real scandal about intercollegiate athletics is their function to support the multi-million dollar illegal gambling rackets (p.14). Was Brooks Adams right (p.13). Smith praises the community colleges where teachers do their job (p.19).

Chapter 2 has the history of colleges in America from the 17th to 18th centuries. The founding fathers desired a practical education (p.33). Costly colleges were an attack on democracy (p.34). New states began state colleges (p.36). The modern university is based on three conditions. The desire for post-graduate work as in Germany; the vast fortunes created by the "robber barons"; and the notion of education as an end in itself and a way to "get ahead" in life (pp.49-50). Johns Hopkins University was the first devoted exclusively to graduate studies (p.50). There was a belief that scholarship would lead to social reform (p.56). The tycoons who created universities also wanted football teams (p.59). The Ph.D. degree was created to keep workers in line (p.60)! The Morrill Act gave states hundreds of square miles to fund state colleges (p.61). State colleges were designed to benefit "the whole people of the State" (p.63). The goal was to improve society (p.69)/ But the Ruling Elite soon put an end to this (p.69). Pages 74-75 describe undergraduate life in the 20th century.

Chapter 6 begins by telling of the political oppression practiced at the Universities (p.77). It explains the meaning of "unscientific" or "objectivity". These were attacks on democracy or "state or federal intervention" (p.79). Smith draws the contrast between small denominational colleges and universities (p.85). The best students come from small towns: individualistic, pragmatic, democratic, rationalist (p.87). Chapter 7 tells about the new colleges to educate women after the Civil War. Missionary woman were college graduates (p.93). Chapter 8 discusses the war between Science and Religion, the rivalry between the universities of tycoons and small colleges. Chapter 9 has William James' criticisms of the Ph.D. invention. It shifts responsibility from the institution doing the hiring to the institutions doing the certifying (p.109). Wasn't that the plan to let tycoons control teaching? Smith has his own criticisms (pp.110-113). He compares the tenure ritual to human sacrifice (p.122). "The Revolt of the Youth" is explained by their exploitation (p.156), and a protest against the university as a tool (p.157). Their charges are on page 163. The greatest judgment against schooling is the number who joined cults (pp.168-171). [What about drugs?] "There is no direct relationship between research and teaching" (p.178). Research is mostly decadent, leading to poor teaching and higher costs (p.179). A researcher is a poor teacher, generally. University publishing is often "madness" (p.181). [The Internet allows lower costs (p.182).] Time wasted in research could be better used in teaching (p.191). The plague of research has spread to other universities (p.194). Bad research (unimportant or irrelevant) buries the good research in a pile of mediocrity (p.197). Courage is very important for a scholar (p.205). Smith tells of the need for physical activities for students (pp.206-207).

Chapter 15 discusses social sciences. Sociology was designed as a secular religion to explain the social experiences. Some sociologists were missionaries for social Darwinism (p.227). Was America ever "a classless society" (p.229)? Or is it self-hypnosis? Is sociology a scheme to control the masses (p.231)? Anthropology has been identified with colonialism (p.234) Psychology is the study of a "soul" or human behavior. Introspection is endemic to America, as is "stress". Its is a secular religion (p.239). Psychologists as expert witnesses seem to be government employees whose judgments have little scientific validity (pp.240-241). The "social sciences" cling to that name in the hope that their opinions will be taken as objective truth (p.252). Chapter 16 tells of the attack on history in the late 19th century (p.260). The hidden agenda of history by monograph is to deny the historical reality gained from looking at the "big picture" of understanding the past. Pages 272-273 explain the false assumption of academic history: new events result in a reappraisal of old events. Chapter 17 offers his thoughts on "Women's Studies", which bring back passion and enthusiasm to the university. Chapter 18 sums up this book. You should read it if you won't read the whole book.
