McKinley's version of the Robin Hood tale does not differ much from the story that most everyone hears in some version when they are a child. There are, I am sure, a few differences, but the major events that I remember from the stories and the movies were all there. The story in The Hero and the Crown is more the story of the characters than the events.

McKinley's Robin is a reluctant hero, forced into his situation by circumstances beyond his control. He hesitates to endanger anyone else, and though the other outlaws flock to him, he honestly doesn't want most of them there. He's more concerned with keeping the people who come to him safe and getting them started in new lives than being a hero.

It was a different explanation of his motives than I had read before, and I found it to be interesting. Though all of the Robin Hood's I've read about wanted to keep their people safe, this one seemed more focused on it than most, going out of his way to avoid attracting attention, and only taking what they were sure they could get and actually use. It was much more complicated than simply taking from the rich and giving to the poor.

Though I thought that this view gave Robin more depth than other Robin's I've read about, I was glad when he took on a more traditional Robin Hood role and started to take the offensive against the sheriff and his men as well. McKinley's Robin is naturally the best kind of leader, the type who puts his people before himself and makes sure everyone is cared for, but it was strange to read about Robin Hood hiding in a small, uncomfortable camp in the forest and not doing anything to right the wrongs that were occurring nearby.

The other characters were also different from what I remembered. Most notably, Marian was much more pro-active and involved in McKinley's version than in other versions I've read. I've never viewed Marian as weak, but here she was even stronger than I had imagined. Robin as an outlaw would never have worked without this Marian, whereas in other versions, Marian is helpful, but not vital. I enjoyed seeing her in a more active role, though I can understand why there was no focus on at home, because I just can't see this Marian fitting into the life at a noble's keep.

Other recognizable but slightly different characters included Little John and Will Scarlet.

In addition to the interesting characters, The Outlaws of Sherwood was an engrossing tale, written in a way that though I knew basically what would happen, I was engrossed, wanting to know how McKinley's characters would react and how things would get to a certain point. The unfamiliar variations were mostly welcome, because they made sense in the view of things that was presented, and there was nothing that was so far from the familiar story that I felt jarred while reading it.

I found this to be a fun variation on the traditional Robin Hood tale and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys that story or McKinley's other work
