EDVAC architecture by Von Newmann changed the world.  Von Newmann chose to adopt the McCulloh-Pitts symbolism for diagramming logical structures of stored program codes.  EDVAC had the ability to modify its own instructions similar too the theoretical Turing machine.  EDVAC stored both data and instructions in mercury delay-line memory as binary and as in the Turing Universal Machine, long strings of bits represented numbers to be operated on and sequenced and potential dynamic structures of operations to be performed, such as bit shifting, multiplexing, Boolean logic, memory storage, and accumulation.

Von Newmann's next machine was called the IAS.  The initial development of the IAS design was distributed to multiple locations.   A central processor operating in parallel on multiple bits of a word of data at a time characterized IAS.  ISA had a hierarchical memory range with random access to memory on limited media, and a distinction between software functionality and hardware functionality.   "Science, as well as technology, will in the near future and in the far future turn from problems of intensity, substance, and energy to problems of structure, organization, information and control."  Von Newmann was persuaded that the high-speed computer would change the nature of mathematical research.  The IAS machine contained the world's first fully functional random-access memory, RAM.  Disk storage was provide through 40 cylinders arranged in a bank of 20 with 1024 bits per cylinder; additionally, 40 Williams tubes and 2,600 vacuum tubes performed digital processing with a 75% up time.  IAS included an arithmetic unit, accumulator, two shift registers, an adder, and a digit resolver.  Floating point was considered but not implemented.  IAS included 20 basic instructions and 44 order codes.

Human calculators provided the pattern of processing modeled in the computer.  Human calculators demonstrated coordinated computing, sequencing, and analytical capability.  Human calculators worked in parallel managed and coordinated processes deciphered WWI Germany encryption messages.   The brainpower and segmented problem solving 10 X 15 power number combinations.  

The human calculator model could be simulated in the Von Newman and Turing machine and the connection machine architectures and software.   Neural Nets could be model in the Turing machine. 

However, evolution algorithms will not be able too produce a thinking machine.  Thinking is limited to the humans and divine beings.  Behavior can be represented in Finite automata graphs, AFSMs, and mechanized behavior may appear logical but this does not suggest the machine can cross the sphere into human intelligence.   The title of the book directly is a criticism against the evolutionary humanist.   Turing grammer suggests discrete processes can be interactive described by a language.   Computer automata can not evolve beyond discrete functions and the machine will be confined to the range of mathematical theorem proofs.   Mathematical reasons does not encapsulate all human reasoning and such an acceptance of this conclusion would be uncreative, limiting, and lacking in vision of the potential for humans to feel love, joy, and acquire greater intelligence.

Von Newmann saw digital computers as mathematical tools, a general class of automata and did not imply they could think.  Von Newman became more interested in the machine reproduction.  "Every automa that can produce other automa will only be able to produce less complicated ones."    Celluar Automa has yet to produce a computer brain that will function.  CA algorithms surprisingly can model many patterns found in nature and physics.  However, no CA has produced a grammer or graph that can be reproduced by the machine yielding an intelligence reasoning machine.  Von Newmann hoped for CA salvation, "there is, however, a minimal level where this degenerative characteristic ceases to be universal.  At this point automata which can reproduce themselves, or even construct higher entities are possible."   Von Newmann's inspiration was not CA but VLSI.  VLSI were being replicated from computer generated patterns by computer operated tool.  FAB in the 20th century continued Von Newmann's aspiration and robotic automated factories suggested to a minimum degree the theory had value.   Intelligence move counter to entropy and if one observes a machine producing other machines of higher construct characteristics than one would declare intelligence has been proven.  In "Flesh and Machine" the Brooks suggests GA do have the ability to create simple behaviors such as locomotion, tactics, and architectural models but fail too create higher-level concepts.  Abstracting and creative thought are outside the realm of the machine.   Brooks suggests AI breakthrough is limted by a lack of quality software, missing laws of intelligence, slow machines, and entropy caused by a lack of young Einsteins willing to dedicate their brains to solving the AI problem.    

Von Newman in his "Theory of Self replicating Automa" believed automa would grow more complicated from one generation to the next; no device would become the brain; high speed switching was millions of times faster than biological neurons but pales in comparison with the combinatorial ability of a billion neurons; and something as complicated as the brain could not be designed but had to be evolved.   The idea that perfection could be reached by random arrangement of neurons seems doomed to fail.  Von Newmann suggested growing a matrix of artifical neurons.  These neurons should have the tendency towards self-organization among large number of interconnected secondary machines.   Incomprehensible complex processes among the secondary machines could be observed by humans have the appearance of comprehensible behavior.    Brooks simple behavior modeling through AFSM seems too synchronized within the realm of computer theory.  Imitation verses enhancement feels like imitation is more discrete, definable, and programmable.  Enhancement seems to be the result of complicated imitation and the AI is the failure to adequately define AFSMs too model observable behavior.  AI evolution must be confined to the realm of the Turing machine grammar.  To expect a machine to suddenly start thinking and its neurons to behavior like biological counterparts is a myth, a fable to consume brilliant minds into the dream that machines can think.
