 Skipping Christmas by John Grisham is a hilarious book that is fun to read anytime of the year.  Grisham captures the chaos and spirit of Christmas through an over worked hen pecked accountant, Luther Krank.  Luther and Nora Krank decide that since their daughter, Blair, is in South America working with the Peace Corp they would skip the Christmas hassle and go on a cruise.  This decision causes quite an uproar on Hemlock Street. The Krank's nosey neighbors are flabbergasted that anyone would decide such a thing, especially since Hemlock Street wins the best decorated street every year and all the houses on Hemlock are decorated perfectly and consist of rooftop Frosty's.  The Krank's will not be hosting their annual Christmas Eve party; they won't even get a tree!  This news spreads like wild fire throughout Hemlock and avoiding Christmas will not be half as easy as Nora and Luther anticipated.  
	In preparation for their cruise Luther and Nora go on diets, hit the tanning beds, buy swimsuits and make other yuppie preparations before embarking the Princess Island Cruise.  After making the arrangements, and costing Hemlock the award for best decorated street, the Krank's are set to leave for their cruise on Christmas day.  However, on Christmas Eve they receive a phone call from Blair saying that she is coming for Christmas and bringing her fiance!  The cruise is immediately cancelled by Nora. Luther and Nora are in a tizzy trying to prepare for their annual Christmas Eve party.  They have to put the massive forty pound Frosty on the roof, find a tree, put together all the food, clean the house, and get people to come to their party before having to pick up Blair and her fiance at the airport!  
	When Luther and Nora invite guests no one is able to attend and the last thing Luther wants to do is beg for mercy from his nosey neighbors.  In the end, however, the neighbors find out that Blair is coming home and the entire street of Hemlock pitches in to help the Krank's before Blair and her fiance arrive.  The Krank's Christmas Eve bash turns out to be a success thanks to the help of Hemlock, and Blair does not suspect a thing.  Nora and Luther love Blair's new fiance and in the end the spirit of Christmas conquers all.  Luther ends up giving the cruise tickets to his neighbors, Mr. Scheel and his wife who is dying of cancer.  Aside from the hilarity of this book the end is very touching.  It is an easy read and I highly recommend it (434).               
