This should be the third review of the book and first of all I must say that the first two by Mcevoy and Messick respectively are great ones with concise description and praise of it. However, I would like to add one more point. The author corrected me, against my previous misperception that monks at that time were dull and serious, that they could be very humorous in preaching the way of God by their very own words and acts. Below please find two of the relatively short stories for your reference.  

(A brother told an elder that he wouldnt give up taking revenge) The elder stood up and began to pray in these terms: O God, Thou art no longer necessary to us, and we no longer need Thee to take care of us since, as this brother says, we both can and will avenge ourselves. At this the brother promised to give up his idea of revenge. Pg 68

A devil transformed into an angel of light and said to a brethen: I am the Angel Gabriel, and I have been to thee. But the brother said: Think again - you must have been sent to somebody else. I havent done anything to deserve an angel. Immediately the devil ceased to appear. Pg 120

Of course there are many more insightful passages, like:-

For Scripture says that Abraham was hospitable and God was with him. Elias loved solitary prayer, and God was with him. And David was humble, and God was with him. Therefore whatever you see your soul to desire according to God, do that thing, and you shall keep your heart safe. Pg 33

If, wishing to correct another, you are moved to anger, you gratify your own passion. Do not lose yourself in order to save another. pg 50

If you have a chest full of clothing, and leave it for a long time, the clothing will rot inside it. It is the same with the thoughts in our heart. If we do not carry them out by physical action, after a long while they will spoil and turn bad. Pg 79

One man carries an axe all his life and never cuts down a tree. Another, who knows how to cut, gives a few swings and the tree is down. This axe is discretion. Pg 84

The devil told an abbot: I suffer great violence from you because I cannot overcome you. For see, I do all the things that you do. You fast, and I eat nothing at all. You watch, and I never sleep. But there is one thing alone in which you overcome me....Your humility. Pg 114

One of the elders was asked what was humility, and he said: If you forgive a brother who has injured you before he himself asks pardon. Pg 118

A certain philosopher asked a St. Anthony: How can you be so happy when you are deprived of the consolation of books? Anthony replied: My book is the nature of created things and any time I want to read the words of God the book is before me. 

In short, a great spiritual food for thought. Dont miss it.
