David McCullough tells the story of one of the most horrendous floods to occur in the US history in his forthright book, THE JOHNSTOWN FLOOD.   In his eloquent style of prose that reads like a novel, McCullough tells the unfortunate tale of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, a small mill and fishing town, which was hit on May 30, 1889, Memorial Day.  Six to eight inches of rain fell on this small working class town, which was comprised of a microcosm of ethnicities who emigrated from Europe and the United Kingdom as well as a few Negroes.  

McCullough provides detailed information about the flood that killed 2,000 people.  The tremendous rainfall destroyed the local dam, and as a result families and individuals were swept by the floodwaters.  He vividly describes the residents who attempted to escape, and were fortunate to survive as well as those who perished in the process. Within his narrative he offers the voices of those who recounted that fateful day.  At the end of the book, McCullough respectively lists the thousands of names of people who perished, and presumably were victims of the event.  This may be the most heart wrenching aspects of the book in addition to McCullough's narrative.

McCullough intertwines events that shaped history.  He stresses the significance of technological advancements that occurred during the last part of the nineteenth century, such as, the telegraph, the telephone, and the presence of the steel industry; through eyewitness accounts and archival material, McCullough reveals the irony of the event, which was linked to the construction of the dam, and the heed of warnings that were ignored.  In the aftermath of the flood, it was shameful to read how national and local newspapers treated the event - "staged" photo opportunities and inconsistencies with the facts.

THE JOHNSTOWN FLOOD is an unforgettable story.  For those who enrich their minds with events of the past, history offers its lessons.  Indeed, this is a story where one will read and understand how Johnstown, Pennsylvania has a place in American history. 


