	The library at the college where I work puts out a list of new books they have purchased in our area once per month, and this book was on the psychology list back in January.  I thought it looked interesting and picked it up then, thinking it might have some good things to say about a book I'm writing about men and depression.  I finally picked it up and started reading it last week, and finished it in less than a week.  I really enjoyed the authors' styles of writing which made some of the technical information more accessible and easier to understand, which to me means it would be a great resource for students studying education and for parents of boys of all ages.
	If it's so great, what's it about, you ask?  A lot actually.  The first thing that they discussed that caught my eye was the idea that for the past few years we've focused on girls and how to educate them better, and now the authors think it's time we focused on boys who were not doing well in school.  It's not that we're helping girls to the detriment of boys, but now that we've helped girls it's time to focus on boy education.  They describe some of their negative experiences with the education system, and it makes me realize that the things I've heard from guys about school all my life weren't just "coming from my friends."  I always assumed I hung out with the non-academic guys or the extremely smart guys who were just turned off by education.  Come to find out there are a lot of boys (and future men) who were turned off to education by our educational system's lack of teaching them in a way that they can learn.  As Gurian writes in another one of his books, Boys and Girls Learn Differently!  Gurian and Stevens describe the brain differences between boys and girls (and men and women) that cause these differences in learning styles, and I think that that chapter is probably one of the most important ones in the book.  I honestly don't see how college programs that are educating future teachers can NOT cover this stuff.
	A second thing that makes this book so interesting to me was that they talked about behaviors boys demonstrate in learning environments and where they come from in the brain.  The research is telling us that that fidgety, always-have-to-be-moving, can't sit still to save his life 6-year-old that I always tell to sit down when I'm trying to work with him actually CAN be moving and still learn, and in fact, SHOULD be moving in order to learn better.  The authors describe "boy energy" and how many parents and teachers don't understand it, and they may thus assume their child has ADD or ADHD.  That was another very interesting section of the book - there was a discussion of using brain scans (PET and SPECT) to diagnose brain anomalies such as ADD and ADHD.  Ever since the research came out showing that some parts of the brain are different in kids with attention disorders I've wondered why we weren't using that information to diagnose, and now the Amen Clinics that the authors describe are doing this.
	Overall I was highly impressed by this book, and it really has excited me to try out some research on my college students in terms of men and learning in the college environment using some of the suggestions they give for grade school education.  If you are going to be a teacher, or you're a parent that has a boy who is school age, you should definitely read this book.  I think that you'll easily recognize a good number of your students or your child's behaviors here, and reading this will give you a better understanding of how they think and where the behaviors come from. 
