Larry Elder hosts a popular radio talk show in the Los Angeles, California area and he is known for his outspoken yet respectable commentary on the social and political issues of the day. Elder caused quite a stir a few years back when he published a book titled "The Ten Things You Can't Say in America". In that book, he spoke plainly and directly about many controversial subjects such as racism, family, media bias, the welfare state, and gun control. In "Showdown", he basically talks about the same topics with some more facts and additional commentary on each. 

Elder feels that much is wrong with the political and social state we live in. He proposes several steps to remedy the negative situations and they all involve a return to personal freedom and the personal responsibility that goes with it. Elder feels we should rollback the welfare state and return to a nation where people are self- sufficient. He feels we should reject those individuals like Jesse Jackson who extort money from corporations using exaggerated and/or false claims of racism. He feels that a traditional two- parent family is important to the well- being of children. To sum it up, Elder takes a Libertarian stand on political and social issues and if you think in terms of liberty and personal responsibility, you should have no problem figuring out his positions on important issues without even opening this book. 

Much of this same material was covered in Elder's last book. But there is one thing that makes this book a little different and Elder mentions it throughout: The attacks of September 11, 2001. Elder feels that fighting terrorists is paramount to our survival as a nation and he feels we should fight with all our power to defeat those who commit these heinous acts. He doesn't specifically say what should be done; how to pay for it; or how to reconcile this "war" with his own principled stand on personal liberty. But you can tell that this event had had a profound impact on Elder, much like it did with other political commentators, because he makes mention of it many times as you read. 

Elder spends most of this book rehashing what he talked about in his last book, and this made the book a little less enjoyable than it otherwise would have been. I got a copy of Showdown and opened it up hoping for some new, fresh material complete with Elder's own pro- freedom diagnosis. Instead, the book touched on the same subjects that were discussed last time around, including racism, affirmative action, illegitimacy, gun rights, liberal media bias, etc. The only thing that was really different was the inclusion of the "war on terror" and how it has impacted the way we, as Americans, must now look at the world. 

Elder is libertarian, but in this book, his approach seems slightly different from that of a few years ago. Now, Elder's political stands seem more conservative- like he has moved in a southeasterly direction on the political Nolan chart and has found a new home bordering on right- conservative. He still criticizes Bush and other Republicans and he doesn't accept the socially conservative agendas of these and other political figures completely. But it's obvious that he is moving closer to the Republican Party and this has been confirmed by Elder's "after word" section in later releases of Showdown where he refers to himself as a Republican. I'm a little surprised that Elder would do this, considering the harsh words he has leveled against Republicans over the years. But I assume he felt that since he is more of a Republican than a Democrat, he might as well give in and choose one of the two major parties to call his home. 

Overall, "Showdown" is a good book, with many sensible solutions to the political and social problems that Americans face in the twenty- first century. It isn't quite as good or as fresh as Elder's "Ten Things you Can't Say in America", but this is still a good book to read for its common sense analysis and its dry, often sarcastic wit. The book places an emphasis on liberty and responsibility, challenging Americans and their political leaders to reexamine they way they view the world and it makes a good choice for intellectual reading. 

