+++++

"Pastor, we [that is, humanity] need your help...Scientists estimate that if...destructive human activities continue at their present rates, half the species of plants and animals on Earth could be either gone or at least fated for early extinction by the end of the [twenty-first] century.  A full quarter [may] drop to this level during the next half century as a result of climate change alone.  The ongoing extinction rate is calculated in the most conservative estimates to be about a hundred times above that prevailing before humans appeared on Earth, and is expected to rise to at least a thousand times greater or more in the next few decades.  If this rise continues unabated, the cost to humanity, in wealth, environmental security, and quality of life, will be catastrophic."

The above is taken from the first chapter of this exceptional, easy-to-read, slim book by biologist, former Harvard professor, conservationist, and prolific author Edward O. Wilson.

This book is really one long letter to a Southern Baptist Pastor.  In this letter, Wilson has briefed the pastor on a subject of common concern--the creation (that is, living Nature or biodiversity) and how it is in "deep trouble."  He focuses on the interaction of three problems that affect all life on Earth:

(1) the decline of the living environment
(2) the inadequacy of scientific education
(3) the moral confusion caused by "exponential growth of biology"

When taken as a whole, Wilson's letter is "an appeal to save life on Earth."

This book is divided into five sections.  Each section has a cover page that has a brief description of what each section is about.  I will reproduce the descriptions below so as to give the potential reader a "feel" for the entire book:

(I)  A call for help and an invitation to visit the embattled natural world in the company of a biologist. (7 chapters).

(II)  Blinded by ignorance and self-absorption, humanity is destroying the creation.  There is still time to assume the stewardship of the natural world that we owe to future generations. (3 excellent chapters).

(III)  Arguments for saving the rest of life are drawn from both religion and science.  The relevant principles of biology, the key science in the discourse are explained in this section.  (3 chapters).

(IV)  The only way to save the diversity of life and come to peace with nature is through a widely shared knowledge of biology and what the findings of that science imply for the human condition.  (3 chapters).

(V)  Science and religion are the two most powerful forces of society.  Together they can save the creation.  (1 chapter).

At the beginning of each section and throughout the book are black and white pictures and illustrations.  I found these enjoyable and interesting.

I thought because this book was so slim that I would not learn anything new.  Was I wrong!!  It is one of the most interesting books I have ever read and, to my relief, it was not preachy.

Finally, I did find some minor irritations in this book:

(1) At one point, Wilson seems to come down hard on scientists.  I understand that these are his opinions but I felt his negative comments about scientists were not needed and detracted from the book's main message.
(2)  He mentions Mars, Europa, & Titan (which he calls "Titanis") and calls them planets.  Actually Europa and Titan are moons.
(3) There is a black and white map of the world in the book with the caption "Thirty-four of the most critical biodiversity hot spots on land: geographical areas with large numbers of endangered species."  Yet these thirty-four hotspots are not marked on the map!
(4)  He says that "Biology is the study of nature."  True, but so is chemistry, physics, and other sciences.  In fact, science can be basically defined as the systematized knowledge of nature and the physical world.
(5) I felt Wilson was biased too much toward biology (which is understandable) while giving small acknowledgement to other important sciences that could also help us get out of the mess that we're in.

In conclusion, this is an important book that you should read if you agree with the following statement:

"Each [living] species [on Earth], however inconspicuous and humble it may seem to us at this moment, is a masterpiece of biology, and well worth saving."

**** 1/2

(first published 2006;  5 parts or 17 chapters;  main narrative 170 pages;  references and notes;  about the author)

+++++
