As an ex oldies rock and roll disc jockey who managed to squeeze two or three Sinatra tunes in every week, I looked forward to reading this book, especially since it was written by one of my favorite chroniclers of the American passing scene.  I was not disappointed.  In this little book, or elongated essay, Pete Hamill makes a compelling case for the value of Frank Sinatra to the America psyche.  He contends that Sinatra matters because he created the American male image of being tough, yet at the same time tender.  He also states that Frank matters because of his music, grounded in loneliness, yet still optimistic.  I also learned something.  My world has often been surrounded by those of Italian heritage, and Hamill has made me understand them better.  First, he relates the beginning of the awareness of the Italian Mob/Mafia in our country.  He claims the myth began in 1891 when eleven Italian immigrants were accused of killing a corrupt police superintendent in New Orleans.  Although all 11 were found innocent, a mob of several thousand people, roused to rabble by incendiary newspaper articles, attacked the jail where the men were waiting release, and killed them all.  (This is another glaring incident that was never mentioned in my America-is-never-wrong high school or college history lessons.)   Hamill does indeed say the mob/Mafia was a factor in America, but came to fruition, decades after the New Orleans incident, through the stupidity of our country's prohibition.   He also explains why Italians call themselves Genoese or Sicilians, not Italians.  It's because there really was no united Italy until 1871.  Instead of the country, an immigrant thought of his region of birth as his homeland.  Hamill spends a good deal of time pointing up the importance of Sinatra's Italian background.  He points to pre-war 1940 when Mayor LaGuardia, Yankee Centerfielder Joe Dimaggio, and Frank, each of Italian ancestry, were three of the most beloved individuals in the country.  In this work, Hamill discusses Frank's childhood, the immense impression of Bing Crosby, Frank's big band years, his beginnings as a solo vocalist, his career collapse coinciding with his marriage to Ava Gardner and the hatred many returning soldiers felt toward the 4-F crooner, concluding with his artistic rebirth beginning with his Oscar winning role in "From Here to Eternity."  Much of Hamill's insight is culled from conversations he had with the singer during the 1970s and `80s, although there are a couple of times he delves deep into Sinatra's head as a youth and I wondered, "How could he ever know that?"   But, except for those few lapses, this is a right-on book about one of the world's greatest entertainers.  At the end of the book, Hamill proposes a list of must-have Sinatra recordings, must-see Sinatra movies, and a bibliography of books dealing with Sinatra and his era.  I have all the recordings, seen all the movies, but Hamill has inspired me to read some of the books.  (But not Kitty Kelley's character assassination, thank you very much.)  
