This is an update of the review below,  posted anonymously June 20, 1999.  People seem to have found it useful and I thought I would add what I consider to be important information about different editions of this book.  

Various editions of this book differ in an important respect.  Some of them are more complete than others!  The reason is that Einstein wrote the first edition over 80 years ago, and it is in the public domain;  I believe later additions to the book are still under copyright, which is under the control of Einstein's heirs and whomever the heirs have given publishing rights.  In the 2005 celebration of Einstein's "miracle year", lots of publishers cashed in, but not all of the editions, including some of the more expensive ones, have the complete deal.    

The very critical thing to look for in the various editions is the Appendices, in particular the piece "Relativity and the Problem of Space" which Einstein wrote near the end of his life.  This is an extremely  serious and profound meditation on the subject matter, whether written for a "popular" audience or not.  Part of the essay is a brief discussion of something whose significance is still very actively debated, usually under the rubrics of "background independence" and "diffeomorphism invariance".  You will not find these words in Einstein's essay, but these notions are at the heart of the sometimes bitter disagreements about various approaches to quantum gravity, e.g. loop quantum gravity (which takes an Einsteinian view) and string theory (which takes a view based on particle physics and quantum field theory).  Einstein did not enter into these contemporary debates about quantum gravity, but his meditations in the essay in this book are very much at the source of the current controversies.  

A leading quantum gravity person of the Einsteinian-based persuasion told me several years ago that he had been a professional practitioner in relativity and quantum gravity for years before he really appreciated what Einstein was getting at here.  

Another person, of the string persuasion, told me that he was "deeply shaken"  from reading a Scientific American critique of the string theory program by a person of the loop quantum gravity school, who stressed the lack of "background independence" in the string program.  

So, by all means, check the table of contents of different editions to make sure the appendices are all there, make sure the "Relativity and the Problem of Space" essay is there.  You will find much to ponder and mystify you there, and much that can be related to contemporary debates at the frontiers of quantum theories of space and time!  


mastermind at work, June 20, 1999
Reviewer: A reader
The reviewer of April 13 from Moscow, Idaho says this is not the book to read unless you already understand the theory. Maybe fair enough. It was written when Einstein had achieved youthful fame, though, not in his dotage, if he had such a thing. It may be a little more difficult for the translation, but not much. Contrary to some reviewers, it is not that easy to follow, and if it seems like an easy read, you probably haven't understood it. There are many books written since where it is probably easier to learn about special relativity, to say nothing of the basic ideas of general relativity. But once you have started to get the hang of things, this book is a masterpiece of exposition! It allows one to follow Einstein's actual thought process in arriving at these theories -- pretty much by a process of pure thought -- more or less in the steps he probably took himself. There is not a word in the exposition that was not carefully thought out. So, learn the theory somewhere else and then read this book -- you'll understand the theory better for reading Einstein's book -- or read this book first, keep going back to it 'til it starts to make sense, and maybe consult some other, more "user-friendly" textbook at the same time. Einstein claims his book allows a lay reader with only high school math to understand relativity. To which a friend of mine replied "Yeah, if you have an IQ of 800". To which I say, have patience, keep thinking about it and going back to it
