This book is written well but what is descibed is sometimes very distressing and hard to take in. The focus today is very much on Islam and certainly, as far as Islamic fundamentalism is concerned, rightly so (not forgetting how the US helped the Taliban to power nor the dangers of Christian or other fundamentalisms).

We should not forget amidst all this that abhorrent attitudes towards and treatment of females extends to many countries throughout the world and was socially acceptable in all countries at some time in the past. What is so disturbing here is that in many of these countries women had been starting to enjoy greater self-determination but then everything went into reverse. It certainly shows how we should not take anything for granted.

No doubt many women in these countries are horrified by stories they will hear about treatment of women in the West - the sex industry, sexual violence, family breakdown etc. - and we should avoid allowing any of our leaders to use the ill treatment of women to gain our support for their own political ends. The lack of human rights for women has never been of real concern in international politics.

But these countries do seem particularly extremely masculine with women up against a very powerful and almost exclusively male presence outside of the home. It is hard not to see many women as subject to a real fear of men and of necessity submitting to whatever 'protection' obedience brings. The fact that sexual violence, exploitation etc is still rampant shows that women cannot win even when they do obey their men. 

Of course, the real meaning of 'honor' here is male self-interest. The root of all types of control of females is sex/reproduction and this is what is blatant here. A daughter has only 'temporary guest membership' in her own family for her value is in the work and breeding she will do for her future in-laws. (In China and India this very same fact means death for many tens of millions of female fetuses and infants. In Africa the need for females to be obedient and marriageable has led to genital mutilation for many millions of females. There are countless examples of ways in which different cultures manage the exchange between male kin groups of  females whose value lies in their breeding potential for 'others'.)

'Lack of hijab means lack of a man's manhood' states a poster in Iran, blatantly stating how it is all about how the man feels about himself. The weaker the woman the stronger he can appear.

This is a powerful book but once you have recovered from the emotions it throws up it would be prudent to put it in context of womens experiences in many countries and in womens history. At least it should make everyone think more warily about words such as 'honor' and 'protection' which can be so easily and disgracefully misused. We also should not forget that there are women in even the most dire circumstances who are incredibly courageous in making changes.

Most of all it is a reminder of a tribal past/mentality that is still very much alive and well and, as much as we may complain about our own lives, I certainly have experienced an overwhelming thankfulness that I was born in the time and place that I was.
