The surreal province, David Almond has created in his fifth book, Secret Heart, is dark, haunting, and reminiscent of the stylistic and contextual elements of English classics produced by the likes of C. S. Lewis and even Kipling. Simple, stuttering, dreamy Joe Maloney is the prototypical, ostracized young boy who doesn't fit in. He has phenomenal powers, of imagination and observation, bordering upon the supernatural.  

The progression of the first half of the plot is rather slow but steady. The reader travels to the town of Helmouth in the slums of England, where `nothing happened. In helmouth, everything came to just nothing.' Adding to this gloomy setting are the despicable occupants of this town who simply cannot allow someone like Joe to live peacefully. 
The novel explores some wonderful themes pertaining to self knowledge, gender expectations, and the reconceptualization of the traditional hero. Furthermore, it is undoubtedly a great work of imagistic wealth, containing aspects of stream of consciousness. The dynamics of a parent-child relationship are also subtly addressed through Joe's `Mum's' willingness to give him space and credit to develop and grow, even though he is, conventionally speaking, a special child. Nonetheless, there are certain disturbing elements in Almond's work as well. While it may not appear so in a first reading of the text, on closer reading, the novel appears to be rather didactic. For instance, it brings to fore the time long battle between man and nature, in which nature symbolizes goodness, renewal, and rebirth while man is emblematic of meaningless destruction and hate. There is no middle path offered as one can either be one or the other as is depicted in Joe's ability to blend into the natural world. The novel also appears to negate, organized institutions symbolized by Joe's aversion to school, the psychologists, and social workers who desecrate the sanctity of his domestic and mental privacy. Whether that's entirely justified is for the reader to decide. Moreover, the fact that Joe chooses `the wilderness, the larks, the rats and rabbits and stoats. And he accepted the loneliness that went with this choice,' raises the question whether the novel is promoting a life of escapism, exile, and self-isolation for those who think differently. It can also be perceived as concluding that only people at odds with conventional society, like the circus people and Joe, are truly kindred souls with noble missions. 
There are certain jarring discrepancies in the plot as well. For instance, while it seems to propagate the respect of nature there is morbid sadism involved in the Hackenschmidt's treatment of the poor Andulican goats that are transformed into unicorns through a cruel process. 
Although Almond's novel is classified as children's literature, it is redolent with sophisticated literary and philosophical context like naturalism and reincarnation granting it an edge over other children's literature that undermines the reader's ability to grapple with complicated ideologies. All in all, keeping mind Almond's admirable record of award-winning children's literature, the Secret Heart is highly recommended reading. The only pre-requisite is that it be approached with an intelligent and critical approach so that none of the true wealth contained in it is lost.  
