Bill Bagwell was the author of the `Battle Blades" column in `Soldier of Fortune' magazine from 1983 to 1987.  During that time he wrote many articles about a wide variety of knife related topics.  In his book "Bowies, Big Knives and The Best of Battle Blades" Mr. Bagwell reprints many of these articles.

Mr. Bagwell begins his book with a closer look at the Bowie knife, which he advocates as the deadliest knife on earth.  He advocates carrying a knife of at least 9.25 inches, and in Bowies, Big Knives and The Best of Battle Blades he explains how to effectively carry a large knife in modern society without drawing unwanted attention.  (I can personally attest to the effectiveness of Mr. Bagwell's instructions on the use and carry of the Bowie knife, as I have done so for years using the method he suggests.)

Because much of the book is reprints of `Battle Blades' articles we also are treated to Mr. Bagwell's opinion on a number of other knives, such as the K-Bar, saw-toothed blades, daggers, the Kukri, the Japanese tanto knife, throwing stars (shuriken), and the AK bayonet.  Mr. Bagwell's opinions on these knives can be controversial, but his opinions are well reasoned in each case ~ whether one agrees with him or not. 

While "Bowies, Big Knives and The Best of Battle Blades" gives much insight into the idea and concept of knife fighting, it isn't a manual intended to teach knife fighting techniques.  For that Mr. Bagwell recommends the training material produced by James Keating at Comtech, here in Washington State (again a recommendation I can personally attest to having much merit).  

If there is any criticism about "Bowies, Big Knives and The Best of Battle Blades" it's that because many of the book's chapters are reprints of the `Battle Blade' articles they are limited in length imposed by a magazine (Soldier of Fortune).  Still this is only a very a minor criticism, as the quality of the book as a whole is excellent.

For anyone interested in carrying large knives (especially Bowie knives), "Bowies, Big Knives and The Best of Battle Blades" is worth adding to your personal library.
