So much of what Kafka wrote about sounds like the place that Dilbert works in.  Granted it has a different historical reference of early 20th century Prague, but bureaucracy is the same in any time.  Beginning with the idea that no one can tell K. why he has been hired, the Castle cannot have made a mistake, we then follow him as he goes down the yellow brick road looking for the White Rabbit.  

You have to understand Kafka's life to truly understand his writings.  He spent most of his life working as a clerk in an insurance company.  He spent the majority of his life living in the post-World War I, Czechoslovakia, in a city that was originally designed to be the provincial capital of part of the Austro-Hungarian dual monarchy.  All of a sudden it is the capital of a very week central european republic.  So you have a large establishment, that doesn't have anything to do anymore but keep itself in business.

Up until WWI, most of the Czech elite, spoke and read in German. The only people who spoke Czech (or Slovak) were the illiterate peasants in the countryside.  At the time of independence in 1918, there were few if any courses taught in Czech at the University of Prague, and all government business was conducted in German.  

Kafka, was a non-practicing Czech Jew who had to learn Yiddish and Hebrew as an adult.  He was the ultimate outsider; he spoke the wrong language and didn't practice the wrong religion; but then he didn't practice the right religion.  His life, to say the least, was going nowhere fast, and that was only because it was going downhill.  Based on descriptions of him by his friends, he was most likely a manic-depressive and had at least two known 'breakdowns'.  He was terrible at relations with the opposite sex, having twice been engaged and then having broken them off.

There is a Lewis Carroll/Marx Brothers (not including Karl) flow to his writings; and since it seems to be train-of-thought, you wonder if he was ever on the right one, at least in his own mind.
When you keep in your own mind, that his writings predate movies like Fritz Lang's 'Metropolis' or Chalie Chaplin's  'Modern Times' you can see his genius of describing workers as slaves to the system.

Who but some one who worked as an insurance clerk, could really understand the feeling of forelorness of the individual faced with an enormous bureaucracy that was mostly concerned with perpetuating itself.  That the book doesn't have a true ending, makes more of an impression that if it had one.  It better reflects how things don't alway
