	Prozac Nation is a compelling memoir about Elizabeth Wurtzel's battle with Depression.  With horrific memories and detailed explanations of only some of the awfulness of this terrible disease, Wurtzel opens up her life to the reader.  The title of the book is somewhat misleading, because the majority of her story focuses on her early bouts of Depression, and her background, so that the reader can see why she didn't have a simple "chemical imbalance", but rather a long and complicated disease.  Wurtzel gives her personal account in the form of a narrative, with interruptions of vivid memories, making it a captivating page-turner that embodies many familiar characteristics of a true memoir.
	Although the majority of the book is upsetting, and does not necessarily put the reader in a good mood, Wurtzel guarantees that the reader will not get bored or too upset to put the book down.  She writes about the positive influence of others on her character.  At one point, she stumbles in to the Infirmary at Harvard University, where a doctor recognizes her need for therapy and takes care of financial issues.  With divorced parents who tried to avoid each other as much as possible, Elizabeth was constantly put between the two, having to ask her father for the financial aid he was legally obligated to give but never actually gave.  When Dr. King at Harvard agrees to call her father and arrange for payment for therapy, Elizabeth claims that "It is the nicest thing, I think, that anyone has ever done for me" (116).
	Wurtzel also captures the attention of the reader by vividly depicting her illness.   What's more, she is able to make it easy for any reader of any kind to understand her feelings, and what Depression feels like.  Loneliness and separation are very big feelings that accompany Depression: 

"My mind just goes off doing its own thing, never consulting me at all about whether it's alright to feel this way or that.  I am constantly standing several feet away from myself, watching as I do or say or feel something that I don't want or don't like at all, and still I can't stop it" (162).

Most people can find some way to relate to this feeling, but all people can understand what she's saying and get a sense for what a person with Depression thinks and feels.  Although every case of Depression is different, and not everyone feels the same things to the same extent, her depiction is very clear for everyone to understand.
	While the story is very captivating, it also has its problems.  It's quite repetitive in the sense that every scene is about how whatever is going on in Wurtzel's life goes awry because of her illness.  She is constantly using drugs and alcohol in an attempt to avoid her problems.  And although she does an excellent job of describing what Depression is, she does so multiple times in every chapter. However, overall it is a very interesting and touching piece of literature.
