Dinky Earnshaw was a teenager living with his bingo addicted mother, had a pizza delivering job, and had a powerful secret. A secret which he couldn't tell anyone and he thought no one knew, until one night a mysterious man calls to tell Dinky he has a job offer for him. Dinky was suspicious at first but meets with the man as planned in the parking lot of a grocery store where Dinky used to work with an evil boy named Skipper Brannigan, who tormented Dinky in the worst ways. Skipper was so cruel to him he smashed Dinky's hand between two grocery shopping carts. Something that truly confused Dinky was that he had never done anything to make Skipper so evil, but Dinky was so upset about Skipper treating him the way he did, Dinky decided to write Skipper a special letter. A letter so special it ends up killing him.  
	This is just one of the many short stories in Stephen King's Everything's Eventual. Stephen King plays with the characters lives and the events like putty molding it together to make a man go see his wife and her lawyer at a Café' for lunch or if he felt like it tearing the characters life apart. Like in the short story "The Gotham Cafe'" he makes the head waiter for the Café' insane and the head waiter ends up killing someone. Not like it is Stephen King's first story were someone ends up dead but just how he explained it. Oh, the stories made me shiver over with delight. 
	Stephen King makes his stories so edible, they all kept me glued to my seat hungry for more. His short stories were amazing even though some were like dramas on how someone wanted to commit suicide, but how his stories were filled with so much detail was amazing. In some stories it was like he gave it the "magic touch" it was so amazing like in "The Road Virus Heads North" how he described the woman's death that sold the main character the picture was amazing. I shivered in delight for most of his stories in Everything's Eventual as if the deaths he made some of his characters go through he has heard about them or was the murderer himself. This novel is not for people with a weak heart, but this novel is for people who love edge of your seat suspense, drama, and gore. 
