This book is thick and painstakingly detailed.  I feel like I know everything about Truman Capote and everyone he ever knew.  That may not be completely true, but that is how I feel after reading this book.

As I read about Capote, I began to feel like he was really a female in a male body and I said as much to family and friends that I thought Truman Capote was really a woman inside.  Towards the end of the book I read where Truman had told friends how as a small child he wished to be a girl.  That confirmed my suspicions.  Truman was not really a gay man.  He was a girl trapped in a body with male equipment.

I don't think the author spent too much time on Capote's childhood as another reviewer stated, but I do feel he spent way too much time in the 1940s and everyone who crossed Capote's path during that decade.  There are some very interesting bits of information from that period such as Truman getting a draft notice sometime after the US naval base was bombed at Pearl Harbor by the Japanese and entered the war.  Truman told friends that when he reported for his notice, he was there no more than 15 minutes when he was told his processing would be delayed.  He never heard from the draft board again.

Sometimes I felt that even the author was bored writing the book, it was so ponderous.  Please note that I said "sometimes."  In his afterword the author says the book took alot out of him.  Well, it took alot out of me to read this huge book.  This book covers it all and then some.  I felt like the pace would pick up once I got to the 1950s, and it did to some degree.

This book covers everything from his childhood in the South, moving to New York City to be with his mother and step-father (from whom he got the name Capote), early career, height of his career, and slow but steady decline after "In Cold Blood" through the unfinished but explosive "Answered Prayers" that is listed under fiction, but was based on way too much non-fiction for his high-class, super-rich friends.

I'm glad I read this book, but I'm also glad I am finally through with it.  Now I am reading the unfinished novel "Answered Prayers" to see what all the fuss was about.

This book deserves 5 stars just for the painstaking research that had to go into it.

