My interest in military history has primarily been reserved for The American Civil War. However, I always harbored an underlying interest in The Napoleonic wars (especially after seeing the movie "Waterloo" starring Rod Stieger when I was a youngster)...

So, a while back, I finally decided to delve further into this realm of military history. What better battle to kick off my new interest than the Battle of Waterloo. When I found this book on Amazon.com, it appeared as if I had found what I had been looking for in "The Waterloo Companion: The Complete Guide to History's Most Famous Battle"...

... and I had - and THEN some! There is a LOT of information between the covers of this book! But, the author does a good job at presenting it all in as organized a way as I could have hoped for. The book is divided into sections like "the battlefield", "the infantry", "the cavalry", "the artillery", etc... Even a section of myths surrounding the battle, and the dispelling of these myths. 

This book is like a text/reference book. It's not the kind of book you will sit back and relax with! It is far too text-heavy for that. However, the text is broken up with many blurbs and vignettes, set off from the rest of the text in separate boxes.  For these, I am grateful to the author! I have found myself going directly to THESE bits more than the main body text when I pick the book up.

The author also does a decent job with timelines via maps, etc. Also, diagrams on how squares were formed, how cavalry would attack squares, and the best way to fire artillery at an opponet of the Napoleonic era, etc., etc... help one to better understand key tactits of Napoleonic warfare like those that were employed at Waterloo.

Now, the reason why I gave this book 4 stars and not five (I'd have given it 4.5 if I could have) is striclty a personal one: I love seeing art inside of books. Particularly military books. There are so many great works of art done on the battles of Waterloo, Quatre Bras, etc... But, I was left high and dry upon opening the book. The cover image of the Currasiers assaulting the Highlander squares, by Felix Phillapateux, sucked me into the book in the first place. I thought there'd be more of these images within... paintings by Thomas Gibb and Lady Butler - even more contemporary artists like Keith Rocco (who has done some great peices on Waterloo), etc... would have rounded out this book for me and lead me to give it five solid stars. There are several color "plates" of soldiers in their uniforms included. But, not nearly enough to wet my pallett.

Over all, a great work! Any and every person with an interest in The Battle of Waterloo should have this in their bookcase
