With fiction there is usually some distance between the reader and the action described.  After all, the reader is seated in a comfortable chair, one assumes, in pleasant surroundings.  But such is not the case with this novel.  The distance between this reader and the story disappeared almost from the beginning, and like the Wedding Guest in Coleridge's poem, I was dragged from Ohio to Mississippi in the heat of summer and forced to witness things I didn't want to see but could not avoid.

The book starts with an intense rape, described in detail.  A ten-year-old black girl is savaged by two cretins and left for dead by the side of the road.  When the girl's father kills the rapists, he is arrested for murder.  The book then focuses on his white defense attorney and the trial of a black man for murdering two whites--in Mississippi--although I suspect the tension would be little different elsewhere in America.

The plot is engrossing and the outcome is satisfying.  It certainly kept me reading late at night, long after I was tired.  The characters are extremely well drawn--diverse, individual, self-contradictory.  The atmosphere of a small county seat in the South is perfect.  After reading the book, I think I could find my way through the court house, the little restaurants and the defense attorney's offices.  The dialogue is just as excellent.

It is difficult sometimes to define exactly what the moral position of the author might be.  He seems even handed, understanding of all the parties and their positions.  That can be annoying at times, but it adds to the truthfulness of the book.  All sorts of people get into the action and not always for or against the defendant but rather for themselves.  There is the NAACP--the local ministers--the ambitious prosecutor--the defense attorney who dreams of fame from this trial--and lastly the ad hoc local KKK.

My only reservation would be in recommending this novel to the faint of heart.  The rape is not the only intense scene in the book.  The reader should be prepared for gasping a few times as the story unfolds.  Still, the trip will be worth it.  Brilliant--that's the only word to describe this.
