I saw the film "Maurice" long before I read the book. As delightful as the movie is, the book is even better, because we are able to get into the thoughts of the characters and the mind-set near the turn of the 20th century. At first, I did not like Forster's writing style; it's almost too economical, occasionally cryptic. Many times the prepositional referent isn't altogether clear, creating unnecessary ambiguity. Moreover, a lot of the jargon is particular to second-decade England, not to current U.S readers. But as the story picks up momentum, the economy of style turns almost poetic, and the linguistic particularities fade, making this novel into a real page-turner. 

The story and the characters are highly realistic, even by today's standards (though written in 1914). There's the common issue of the conflict with "coming-out" gay vis-a-vis the desire to be "normal," which as Forster concludes, is essentially one and the same, regardless of nature's impulses. While to be gay is ultimately to be normal, it is not without its social and personal prejudices and misunderstandings, particularly at the time this book was written. Likewise, Forster demonstrates that gay people can (and most often do) lead quite normal, happy, even transforming lives, despite these difficulties. This is what gives the novel its joy.

Above all, this is a typical story of the vicissitudes of love, the only difference being that it involves three men (and several secondary women). One man (Clive), while thoroughly enjoying his same-sex love, ultimately represses it to make himself socially acceptable, politically viable, and personally miserable. Another man (Maurice), initially thinks he has to do likewise, but he cannot suppress the insuppressible, and finally does the inevitable and heeds his nature's call. The third man (Alec) discovers his unique love, and while initially angry that his love isn't immediately reciprocated, comes to love the man who really does love him after all. In many ways, this is the ultimate "homosexual" novel, but in many other ways, it is also the universal romantic novel.

Beyond the obvious love story, Forster weaves in various themes and ideas of the times (that are still with us). For the perspicuity in incorporating these themes and how they relate to being a human being first, and being gay second, Forster makes for a most satisfying reflection and examination of perennial issues. Not only is the single most important emotion, love, addressed in all its complexities, but so are certain theological, psychological, philosophical, business, and political nuances addressed. The whole enterprise is exceptionally satisfying. A novel worth anyone's time
