Black Rice: The African Origins of Rice Cultivation in the Americas.  Judith A. Carney.  Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2001.  xiv and 240 pp.  Notes, references, and index.  (ISBN 0-674-00452-3)

	Reviewed by David Barber, Graduate Student, The University of Southern Mississippi; Hattiesburg, MS.  

	Black Rice: The African Origins of Rice Cultivation in the Americas, By Judith A. Carney, investigates the historical origins of South Carolina's rice industry and the role African slaves played by providing the knowledge and technology of rice cultivation in the Americas.  From a personal background, Judith A. Carney is a professor of geography at UCLA.  Carney's main argument focuses on the African slaves' contributions to the rice industry, their introduction of rice to the Americas, and their cultivation technology that provided the driving force behind one of the most profitable cash crop commodities in the South.  Carney's book dispels the false, popular belief that rice was introduced to the Western Hemisphere by European traders.  However, the book is limited, somewhat, as a source for studying the history of American cooking.  Although Carney's book provides a valuable insight into the history of rice cultivation in America, it provides very little information regarding the usage or consumption of cultivated rice by the American society.  
	Judith A. Carney is a professor of geography at UCLA.  She earned her Ph.D. at the University of California, Berkley.  In Black Rice, Carney utilizes a variety of primary sources, as well as secondary sources to support her findings.  The book contains an introduction, six chapters, notes, references, and an index.  
	In the first two chapters of Black Rice, Carney describes rice cultivation in Africa, mainly on the African west coast.  In Africa, rice was cultivated mainly on rain-fed uplands, tidal floodplains, and inland swamps.  The cultural/gender roles in western Africa positioned women as the dominant labors of rice cultivation.  In addition to describing the diffusion of rice cultivation throughout Africa's many ecosystems, a large focus is placed on the mangrove ecosystems of West Africa, due to their similarities to tidal swamps in South Carolina.  
	Chapters three and four examine the skilled labor of African slaves producing rice in South Carolina and the organized gender division of labor that remained intact within rice cultivation in America.  By seeking African slaves taken from the rice producing regions of Africa, primarily females, plantation owners sought specific slaves knowledgeable of cultivation and technologies necessary for rice production.  In comparison to cotton plantations, the labor practices on rice plantations allowed the slaves to concentrate on his or her personal needs once daily task were completed.  The slaves on cotton plantations labored from dawn to dusk.  This element helped African slaves to maintain a certain level of cultural identity, an uncommon freedom granted to few slaves during the era.  
	The final two chapters of the book focus on the introduction of rice seeds to the Americas and the return of African slaves to the rice cultivation regions of Africa by abolitionist societies.  Carney argues that rice cultivated in South Carolina was introduced by slaves entering the New World via slave ships.  The origins of rice cultivation in South Carolina did, in fact, stems from slaves cultivating rice for personal use in the small garden plots allowed by plantation owners.  To the African slave, rice symbolized freedom; in particular, the Carolina Gold variety introduced in Africa by returned slaves.  
	The value of Black Rice can be found in the knowledge and understanding it provides of rice's introduction, cultivation, and technology supplied by African slaves in the Americas.  From its introduction by African slaves, initially in personal garden plots, rice has become one of America's main staple crops.  However, once noticed for its potential, rice cultivation on Atlantic plantations became the primary focus for many plantation owners.  Although the initial labor practices benefited slaves, economic demand for rice ushered in an increase measure of labor and output that resulted in many slaves dying in the disease infested conditions.  Nevertheless, these conditions isolated some slaves and provided opportunities for them to maintain some of their African, cultural traits.   
	As a historical source for the study of American food history, Black Rice possesses many limitations.  The book does not provide the reader with many examples of how cultivated rice was utilized by the consumer society, once it was produced.  Aside from cereal, the book does not mention any meals that include rice as an ingredient.  Although the author mentions many regions in the Western Hemisphere, the book's focus is limited to rice cultivation in North America and Africa, mainly rice cultivation in South Carolina.  
	Sense its introduction in the Americas by African slaves; rice has become one of the main staple crops utilized in American culinary practices.  From this book, the reader gains a better understand of rice's origins, cultivation, and the technologies introduced by African slaves that made it possible prior to industrialized, mechanized methods of harvesting and production.  However, the book pays little attention to the crop as an ingredient in American culinary.  Carney does not provide the reader with any information regarding different classes of society utilizing rice differently or how it was incorporated into their diet.  Rather, she focuses on rice as a symbol of freedom, allowing some Africans to maintain certain elements of their cultural identity.  Throughout the book, the author's consistently argues the importance of female slaves and gender roles that were maintained in rice cultivation, until an increased demand required the incorporation of male labor into the system.  Nevertheless, the material covered in the book is informative and interesting, providing the reader with a greater understanding of how one of our most popular staple crops originated in America.
	
