Bill Buford's rejection of or distancing from violence in the latter part of this fine piece of journalism--a safari into the world of British soccer hooligans--is unconvincing. "Among The Thugs" is weakened by Buford's unwillingness to face his attraction to violence. He gets sort of halfway there & it's as though he's just unwilling to go further & frantically backpedals. That he joins in does not come as a surprise, & it's to Buford's credit that he's at least willing to acknowledge it.
At the same time that Buford seems unwilling to fully explore his attraction, it is a definite shortcoming of the book that he doesn't show that much concern for the random victims, who are not humanized. It would have been sobering--& very worthwhile--to have found a victim & painted a strong portrait in the same way he paints strong portraits of the thugs. It would have been a good balance.

The book is sometimes unexpectedly anti British. It's a complex society. Buford sometimes paints it with an overly broad negative brush (I write this as a Brit by birth).
Buford inserts his (drinking--is this an excuse?) self into his reportage but then is unwilling to fully explore what he finds.
Buford also strives too hard to explain violence. This may be a red herring--maybe it defies rational explanation.
"Among The Thugs" is an important contribution to the topic, alongside others as diverse as "On Killing," "Fight Club," "In Cold Blood," "Clockwork Orange" & "Hitler's Willing Executioners," all of which shed light in different ways on different aspects of the same thing (in fact, they add up to a curriculum on violence). At its deepest level, it comes down to questions about why we are ever good & why we are ever evil & the nature of the struggle between the two. Also, the struggle between civilization & barbarism or between order & chaos.
I'm not at all sure that social issues are an explanation (or an excuse?) for what Buford documents here. Plenty of other places in the world have logarithmically worse social problems that don't result in similar behavior (but, then again, maybe the crowd behavior in Mogadishu is just further out on the same spectrum? See "Blackhawk Down.")
As a journalist, I have no problem beliving Buford attained the access he said he did. It's an art, but there's no doubt it can be done.
Buford's description of a National Front disco is one of the highlights of the book unmentioned by other reviewers. Its got a dark humor to it, too. Surprisingly, I laughed aloud several times during the book, to Buford's credit.
Well-written, excellent reporting, important topic, significant contribution to subject. A worthwhile read.
Do not read this if you find violence & anti-social behavior offensive subjects or if you are offended by graphic descriptions of same. This is not a pleasant read, but it is worthwhile. A brave and original book
