You've been working out at the gym a couple years. You have a nagging pain behind the knee that just won't go away. You begin to wonder if you somehow managed to tear the meniscus or the ACL. What's happening?

Also, you've found it almost impossible to do leg curls because the pain along the sides of your knees has become unbearable. How did it start and how do you get rid of it? Was it from all the running you did, all the weight trainging, or all the martial arts stuff you've been practicing?

Shoulder pain that won't go away after a few weeks of intense martial arts training. Pain in the bicep that hangs on like ramora on shark. What can be done about it? Should you go to the doctor and maybe get recommended for arthroscopic surgery or leave it alone? Should you try to work through it with more exercise?

Micheli's book is excellent for narrowing down the problem to very specific causes and what to do. Sometimes he says you've got to see the doctor, then start RICE-ing, do special exercises.

The pain behind the knee? Popliteus tendonitis is a good possibility. How do you fix it? Micheli tells you how.

The pain along the sides of the knees that make it impossible to do leg curls? Illiotibial band tendonitis. How do you fix it. RICE it, and do certain stretching exercises to loosen these long bands of muscle and tendon that travel all the way from the hip to the calf.

If you do any kind of sports you are likely to get injured, even the injury of repetitive motion, similar to carpal tunnel tendonitis. These pains won't go away on their own. Young or old (like me), things happen, especially if you're active, that go beyond plain ol' muscular pain. Fractures, sprains, overuse injuries of bursitis and tendonitis. Micheli helps you figure out what's wrong. Yes, sometimes you'll have to go to a sports medicine doc or orthopedist, but many times, you can fix it yourself.

Allan M. Levy and Mark L. Fuerst have a great companion book for Micheli's book with practical applications called Sports Injury Handbook.

If you can get only one of them, get the bible, otherwise you'd be better off with both. A few good stretching books would help too
