Vengeance in Death by J.D. Robb is the fifth book in this "In Death" series by this author who is the alter ego of Nora Roberts. This pseudonym is only used for her futuristic series (don't let that genre fool you - these books are fantastic, even if you don't usually like science fiction type stories!) 

It seems that each of the books in this series so far has the murders involving Eve Dallas' lover/husband, Roarke, in some form or another and this one is no different. If you've read these from the first book, Naked in Death, then you've followed the relationship evolution between the two strong main characters and you've been given a glimpse of each of their pasts. Vengeance in Death explores, in greater detail, Roarke's past and that of his butler, Summerset. 

A killer is loose and he's killing men with Irish links; unfortunately, that Irish link is Roarke and his past crimes. Summerset's daughter, Marlena, had been brutally murdered in Dublin, Ireland many years before and Roarke avenged her death by killing the six men responsible. Now it seems that someone is killing Roarke's informants from the past. It's Eve Dallas' job as primary homicide detective in the cases to find out who this mad man is and stop him before another victim is found. 

Sounds like a typical "who dun it?" type book right? Well with J.D. Robb, you can always expect to find a bit more intrigue, romance and humor thrown into the plot. The added character of Ian McNibb (Electronic Detective Division Wonder-boy) is a pure stroke of genius. And the undertones of a romantic entanglement between McNibb and Officer Delia Peabody (Dallas' able assistant) leaves the reader wanting more and not being able to wait to read the next book to find out if these two actually do get together. 

One of my favorite support characters, Mavis, is missing from this book - actually, she makes a very brief appearance, and that leaves a bit of fun out of the story line. But don't worry - the other colorful characters are all there - Commander Whitney, Police Chief Tibble, Summerset, Peabody, Dr. Mira, and of course Eve and Roarke. 

The identity of the killer wasn't predictable this time, and actually had me guessing up to the end of the book. The clues as to his identity were few and far between, but the outcome made sense once everything was in the open. 

Vengeance in Death is more sound writing from J.D. Robb and her versions of the future are impressive. I want a turbo car that can go from New York City to New Los Angeles in three hours just as they have in this book! (With gas prices the way they are now, I'm wondering what kind of gas and gas mileage they're getting in the future!) It will be interesting to see if the world is any closer to these creations in the year 2058 - only 57 more years to go and we'll see! But I'm first in line for one of those AutoChef inventions that cooks your meal upon voice command - no cooking, no cleaning - ah, paradise! 

Vengeance in Death isn't the best book in the series that I've read, but it is still excellent. 
