Moran's way-path through phenomenology is truly phenomenal!  I say that it is a way-path and not a work because it is not an end in itself, but truly the beginning of an ever continuing/renewing end.  It has been extremely helpful as I work my way through phenomenology.  

Phenomenology is one of the studies where very few of us have the time and money to work our way through it in its entirety.  It is an area of study that invites the scholar to plant his feet in one vantage point, one moment.  

The moment in phenomenology that I've chosen is Heidegger, which is, of course, a lifetime of achievement in itself.  Part of the difficulty in understanding Heidegger is understanding him in relation others to his teacher (i.e. Husserl), his students (i.e. Gadamer), and, more illicitly, his extramarital lover Hannah Arendt.  Obviously, I do not have the time nor funding to study/afford all of these books, let alone give a systematic analysis of these works.  So in its place (tentatively), I have picked up Moran's book to help me along my own way-path, specifically Heidegger.  What it has enabled me to do, is understand Heidegger in relation to early and late phenomenology.  Moran provide a diachronic analysis rather than a synchronic summary, which is surely the preferred method to be consistent with the practice of phenomenology. His book is a wonderful tour guide through this fun themepark known as phenomenology.

Now, I plan to review and read some of these works in relation to Heidegger, but right now my focus and main attention is directed to Heidegger himself.  It is for this reason I find this book a helpful compass as I work my way through the many ambiguities of phenomenology at-large and small (and manifestly as they appear as all embracing constitutions in relation to my transcendental ego as it intentions the subject as it is given in the state of affairs of its appearing.)  I would recommend this book to anyone that is attempting to set out on a similar endeavor like myself.

I give this book four stars because it is a book that is always/continually "on the way" to phenomenology.  It is a book with obvious limitations in that it is a tool towards an end and not an end in itself.  In it the author seems to display a strong, but well defended, bias towards Husserl.  I believe that there are some parts of this book that could be swelled in accordance with Justice, but, if all this is understood by the reader, then its value is not reduced, but induced.
