Jill Ann has written a shocking, behind the scenes expose of what goes on upstairs at Hugh Hefner's "Mansion". Ms Spaulding had a dream of gracing the pages of Playboy as a playmate. So she did everything she could to prepare herself physically including breast implants, makeup lessons, liposuction etc. But she never made it on the pages because she was unwilling to have a sexual relationship with Hef.
She did just about everything else though. She paid for pricey party tickets, sucked up to the staff, begged for access to Hef, jumped in bed with other playmates, got naked and feigned girl girl sex etc.

Prior to her visit to the mansion, Spaulding thought that the girls on Hef's arms were for the most part pretty publicity. Once inside she realized that Hef expects sex from everyone of them. And if they want to grace his pages they best to what he says.

The perks for the chosen girls who live in the mansion include free plush living quarters, 24 hour dining, a wardrobe allowance, a weekly allowance (yes Hef pays his gals for his pleasures), beauty services, cosmetic surgery etc. In exchange the gals must put up with one anothers cattiness as they jostle for favor with Hef. They must also engage in unprotected sex with Hef. Shocking that the man who is looked at as a forerunner in demonstrating that sexuality is beautiful is dumb enough to demand that no protection is used in his bedroom orgies. And no testing is done. 

The book is a very interesting read. I always thought if one wanted to be a Playmate they would send in a picture and Hef would select the best using his magnifying glass that he is often shown with. Who knew that bedroom romps figure into the equation also. I thought Hef was a bigger man than that and limited himself to several close girlfriends. 

Ms. Spaulding appears to be a very intelligent woman but she is not a writer. So though she conveys her thoughts the book can be choppy at times. In addition one does feel like shaking her when she continues to pine over not making it into the pages of the magazine. She even goes out and spends $750 on a diamond encrusted rabbit logo necklace like the official girlfriends wear long after she has been univited to return to any parties because she offered to pay $2,000 for a party invite which she says was for her boyfriends benefit..but we all know she just wants to put her face in front of Hef's again.

Comeon Jill Ann, be glad you didn't sell out and have unprotected sex with Hef. Sell the necklace and get over the Playboy dream. You are better off without it.

Meantime HEF..wakeup call...Use protection if you want to continue having fun with the Bunnies..though it sounds pretty darn shallow to me.

The book also includes a resource section that includes where to send your picture and where to write to Hef, if you still want to be a playmate after reading.
