Kurt Vonnegut's "Cat's Cradle" is the story of a man, Jonah, who is writing about the "end of the world," or the day when the atom bomb was dropped.  His work on the book encourages him to go on many journeys which ultimately leave him in a somewhat ironic yet very comedic position.  The story features an imaginative religion, a scientific potion, and a far off society as part of Vonnegut's many bizarre episodes.  Jonah, researches the "father of the atom bomb" and his children in order to determine what they were doing on the day the atom bomb was dropped.  Seemingly against his will, Jonah gets pulled into a plethora of discoveries about the children and their father which he never could have imagined to be true.  His journeys ultimately land him, along with the children, on a secluded island with a radically different society from their own.

I did in fact enjoy reading this book because of the absurdity and the unbelievable voyages which the main character undergoes.  However, it is in fact Vonnegut's style that makes the book so enjoyable.  He is able to bring the reader into this world where virtually anything can happen which then leaves the reader totally unaware and clueless as to what comes next.  The world allows him to describe such things as the discovery of the island of San Lorenzo in a two page account where six different countries claim and forget about the nation before escaping African slaves finally claims the land for good.  It is through Vonnegut's voice and style that the reader may not stop to consider such oddities as this one.

Originally, I chose to read this book after finishing Vonnegut's "Slaughterhouse Five," and was absolutely taken away by the combination of absurdity and hilariousness through which he expresses himself in this book.  Though I did not expect this book to be as far out as the alien adventure in "Slaughterhouse Five," it did seem like a pleasant offbeat satire about modern man.  In the end I enjoyed this book more than "Slaughterhouse Five" because of the comedic voice that I found more visible in "Cat's Cradle."  Though the first was rather ridiculous and interesting, for me it did nothing more than provoke thoughts about where such an idea would come from, rather than make me laugh.

I would recommend this book to anyone who is seeking an imaginative and far off satirical story that is sure to create a smile.  While many may think the story to be boring and pointless, it is partly this hollowness that makes it so enjoyable.  The reader is baffled and unable to understand why things happen the way they do creating a randomness that I have found to be attractive.  For those readers that were bored by part of the book and decided to put it down forever, I would encourage you to fight through the beginning.  After all, I did in fact at first believe that this would be a serious account of the day the atom bomb was dropped, until the Bokonon religion was further explained and glorified
