                    Empire Strikes Back
                    By: Donald F. Glut
                        N. Muttalib
                         Period 2
   The book is about a boy names Luke who is a jedi (a warrior). The Rebels (good guys) have a base set up in a really cold and freezing planet called Hoth. Then the imperial soldiers (bad guys) attack with walkers in that battle Luke figures out how to destroy them by tying but still loses the battle and the base is destroyed. Leia, Han, Chewbacca, and C3PO escape in the Millennium Falcon and head for the rebel rendezvous point, while Luke and R2D2 go to the planet Dagobah. Luke has had a vision from a ghostly Obi-Wan Kenobi telling him to seek Jedi Master Yoda there to complete his training. Imperial chase the Falcon, but to Darth Vader's anger Han escapes from capture. The Falcon's hyperdrive is broken, however, and Han diverts to Bespin, a floating city and mining colony. Han has a friend there named Lando he was a administrator there. But Lando turns out to be forced by Darth Vader to turn in Leia. But on Dagobah (planet) Luke has a vision that Leia and others are in trouble and he meets Yoda who trains him with the force. On Bespin Vader sets a trap using Leia and Han as bait for Luke to come. Vader decides to freeze Luke and present him to the Emperor he tests it on Han and it works. Han is turned into bounty hunter Boba Fett and is sent to Jabba. Leia, Chewbacca, and C-3P0 are sent into Vader's ship. Luke arrives in Bespin and Vader duels with him and cuts his hand off the he tells Luke that he is his father. Then Luke falls off and hangs of something. He then gets rescued by Leia and Chewbacca.
    There are many parts I really like in this book like when Darth Vader fights Luke and he says,"I am your father." I liked that quote because Vader told him a very big secret. Another one is when the rebels destroy the first walker they felt very happy."In trenches, Rebel troops cheered in triumph when they saw the assault machine topple." I liked that because the Rebels destroyed their walker. 
     There are also many parts I really disliked like when Darth Vader and Luke were dueling and Vader cuts his hand off."At that second, the Dark lords laser blade came across Luke's hand cutting it." I really did not like that also when Darth Vader fails to destroy Leia, Han, and Chewbacca."Darth Vader looked like a great silent god as he stood on the main control deck of his mammoth Star Destroyer.
     I really liked this book I liked it because of the action and adventure it had it was really cool also when and how they fight this book was very good.
