... this is really quite a terrific read. I picked this up based on Magee's reputation in the world of Philosophy, and figured I'd learn a lot, first about Wagner, and then about opera. Magee's work satisfies enormously on all these accounts. Magee clearly loves what he is undertaking and the joy and enthusiasm carry the narrative long with a passionate flow. What was at work in the writings, and to some extent in the life, of Wagner is presented witha clarity and precision that illuminates just how revolutionary and uncompromising a genius Wagner was. The book builds, rightfully, to PARSIFAL, and the radical departure that opera was on a philosophical as well as operatic level. PARSIFAL is the music that endeared me to Knappertsbusch, it is the music that infused Inspector Morse, it is where man's spirituality is relieved of the weight of so much hierarchical baggage and set free, as near an ecstatic experience as is possible to achieve in music, and Magee gets it right in every detail.
Of course, along the way, you have to endure the love fest with Schopenauer and Nietzche, against whom, for Magee, all other writers in Philosophy, and especially Hegel, are anathema. Typically British in that respect, Magee none the less delivers brief and informative scribs on the philosophical directions of these 2 writers, and how they intersect with Wagner.
Magee saves the most controversial element for the last, that being Wagner's anti-semitism. In what is certainly a valid inquiry, Magee asks what role should any author's prejudices play in evaluating the art if there is no evidence of it in his art. Magee is no apologist for Wagner's roaring and overbearing personality, regardless against whom it is directed, and certainly points out that Wagner was an unabashed anti-semite.  Yet he still relegates the discussion itself to an "Appendix." Not entirely cricket. The point that Wagner's operas feature no invectives, no insulting characters, nothing patently directed at anyone other than the powerful, the bourgeoisie, the hierarchies in religion and society, still does not satisfactorily resolve the bad taste in the mouth that the Wagner legacy has left. If you happened to be in that class that he inveighed against in the operas, then you got what was coming to you from Wagner's standpoint. His personal distastes he managed to keep out of his art. So, is it all guilt by association? Largely, to Magee. Odd, though, when you consider the castigation Heidegger went through, having uttered 2 extraordnarily stupid oratories, yet resigning his post when it dawned on him what was going on. Perhaps it is the fact that Wagner's progeny couldn't restrain themselves from blowing kisses to Adolf that will forever rub people the wrong way. The music, especially by the time it got to PARSIFAL, stands on its own. We will have to deal with that on its own terms. Magee's book is an exacting look at those terms and worth the read by anyone with a love for great music
