 I respect D.T. Suzuki enough, to have visited the Suzuki family graveyard in Kita Kamakura, upon my first arrival in Japan. I say this as a prelude, because I am going to say some critical things about the Ist edition of this book - which contained - in places, unspeakable nonsense for a man who would otherwise have to be regarded as one of the best inter-cultural bridge builders of the 20th c. 

 To get to the point, the first edition of this book was an exercise in Nihon-shugi or 'Japanism' - tinged with blatantly
nationalistic feelings, as against the spiritual riches of a study like Suzuki's 'Nihon Teki Rei-sei.' I love the best of Japanese culture, have a Japanese wife - and am blessed with Japanese friends, dear to my heart. The sort of thing found in the Ist edition of this book, would make most of them choke on their rice, because it is dreadful caricature. 

 Like many other people, I owe Suzuki a lot. His other writings are far more meaningful and I regret that he wrote this book at all - if adjudged by the Ist ed. For a while, he was caught up in the Japanese megalomania of the 30's. The glorification of massed Bushido in this book was stupid (nothing to do with the Samurai, anyway). This stuff doesn't scream at you from every page - that's the rub of it. It lurks here and there, among otherwise delightful observations and anecdotes. But you can't help objecting to observations about how the Chinese 'lost' the beautiful culture they had once inspired in Japan, by dint of contact with Zen. In the Ist ed of this book, the mere fact of being 'Japanese' is enough to make culture and enlightenment ooze out of every crack and pore of life. Its a little more sophisticated than that - and, like some Italians, say, who live amid artistic splendours without the least feeling for it, not all Japanese value what is beautiful and good about their country and culture. 

 I regret having to say unkind things about dear old Daisetzu, who has otherwise brought me much inspiration.   
