Tony Hillerman once again takes us into the world of the Navajo with Jim Chee and the legendary Joe Leaphorn of the Navajo Tribal Police. I read this for the first time some years ago, and this entry in the long-running series is very exciting. It has a lot of atmosphere and Leaphorn and Chee are fleshed out more than usual in this terrific read.

Both Chee and Leaphorn are dealing with personal issues as this one begins. Chee hasn't quite figured out how he feels about Mary leaving him because he could not leave his Navajo way of life behind and move to the city with her. He is smitten with a pretty Navajo attorney named Janet but she's with someone else. Leaphorn meanwhile, is on terminal leave and retiring after the unexpected death of his beloved wife Emma. Niether he or Chee can explain his obsession with finding a missing pot hunter named Eleanor Friedman-Bernal. No Navajo would be involved, as stealing pots like this would make one a "Thief of Time" according to Navajo tradition.

Chee's letting a rather large backhoe get stolen right from under his nose will have ties to Leaphorn's investigation, and once more Chee will be helping Leaphorn all across the Navajo territory. This one will stretch all the way into Utah and down the San Juan River. Leaphorn will be reminded of a young boy's death by drowning before this one wraps up, and it will have unexpected ties to his search for Eleanor.

It seems Eleanor was looking for pots made by the Anasazi, a tribe that simply vanished from the face of the earth. Pictographs and petroglyphs of Kokopelli, the "Watersprinkler," will play a vital part in this mystery. But Eleanor's interest is also anthropological, and someone thinks what she's discovered is worth killing for.

Leaphorn and Chee will be hundreds of miles apart when they reach the same conclusion in this complex mystery. One will have to race to the other as things turn ugly, and two very different men will find commom ground when Leaphorn asks the unexpected of young Chee.

Hillerman's descriptions of the thousand foot cliffs along the San Juan River at night, under a sky filled with Navajo mystery, will enthrall you. This is a good mystery and quite possibly the best in the series. You don't want to miss this one
