The War of 1812 proved a great trial for the young United States. Not only did it include an effective British blockade on American shipping -- especially in the last year of the war -- but the Embargo Act of 1807 passed in Jefferson's second term led to a 90% decline in American exports before the war ever started. Across the country, wharves and warehouses were piled high with American goods and foodstuffs with nowhere to go.

Who really wanted the war in the first place? It wasn't New England: Even while U.S. forces were engaged fighting the British in Canada, New England farmers made a good business selling beef to the enemy. The government in Washington was angry that American ships were being boarded by British warships and having crew members taken off because they "looked" like British deserters. The South was worried because the British forbade shipping cotton to Napoleon's France or to any of the mainland European countries he now occupied.

Primarily, however, it was the West, which in those days meant Kentucky, Tennessee, and Ohio, which wanted to fight. The very thought that the British could interdict shipping down the Mississippi to the Port of New Orleans was a threat to the very existence of the newest of the United States. Henry Clay bragged in Congress that he could take 300 Kentucky militiamen and conquer Canada. 

That was not to be. The war on the ground took place in four theaters. It was the attempt to take Canada that was perhaps the biggest failure. Several U.S. armies came to grief because of bad military leadership, the unwillingness of militias to cross a national boundary, the inability to take advantage of a military victory (as at Lundy's Lane), and various other causes typical of green and poorly led troops. In time, good military leaders did emerge, especially Winfield Scott, but by then the focus was gone from Canada.

The only real victories -- up until the very end -- were at sea. The duels between Old Ironsides and the Guerriere and Java stunned the British Admiralty. At Put-in-Bay on Lake Erie, Oliver Hazard Perry bested a flotilla put together by the British; and Commodore McDonough did the same at Plattsburg, NY, on Lake Champlain.

The other two war theaters were Chesapeake Bay, in which the U.S. capital at Washington was put to the torch and Fort McHenry was bombarded, though little else of note occurred, and New Orleans. The latter, the only decisive victory by U.S. ground troops over British regulars (who had fought in Spain against Napoleon) took place after the peace treaty of Ghent was signed, but before the news of the signing had reached American shores.

Borneman does a creditable job retelling the events of the War and the events leading up to it, complete with maps, footnotes, a useful bibliography, and illustrations of the major players. His conclusion that the war led to a national consciousness coming into existence, whereas before Americans thought of themselves primarily as residents of their states, comes at the tail end of the book. I would have liked to see a more detailed discussion of his hypothesis. 

By and large, however, I enjoyed the book enough to want to look into Borneman's other work. There are relatively few contemporary works about the period, and this one does do justice to its subject matter
