'Skeleton Crew' is probably the weakest of King's four short story collections, but it's still plenty good, and every story in here is worth a read.  King's first collection, 'Night Shift' was almost purely horror stories, with the few branches out into black humor and more straight ahead drama being sufficiently dark so as to maintain the horrific tone.  'Skeleton Crew' mixes it up a bit more, with a few more non-horror stories, some nominal sci-fi elements at times and other things.  As a general rule I, of course, like King's horror work the best, but the extra variety is interesting, and would continue to  show up in his later collections.  A few stories in particular:

The Mist:  This is a novella, and it is surprisingly frequently cited as one of King's best stories.  I don't like it that much, but it's definitely good.  It's one of his more cinematic, over the top stories as the world is invaded by monstrous creatures.  King says this is meant as a tribute to and imitation of old B-Movies from the 50's, and you can definitely see that.

Cain Rose Up:  Probably my favorite story here, short though it is.  A very chilling story of a Charles Whitman style mass-murder.

The Jaunt: A nominal science fiction story about teleportation, and the negative effects associated with it in this particular envisioning of it.  This story has got some pretty interesting, pretty creepy ideas in it.

Beachworld: Another nominal science fiction story about a self-aware, malevolent planet of sand which tries to hypnotize and consume a crew who crashes on it.  Proof that just about any topic, no matter how bizarre can be taken seriously and made to work if you approach it right.

Nona:  Though it could stand for a little more subtlety, this is probably the second best story here, about a nameless college drop out who goes on a killing spree with mysterious, violent and beautiful young woman named, you guessed it, Nona.  Told in the first person, this is a particularly good example of King's ability to create an interesting, believable voice in his narrator.

Survivor Type:  An amusing sick joke of a tale about auto-cannibalism.

The Reach:  The surprisingly gentle, sentimental closer about an old woman who has lived on an island off the New England coast all her life.  A great illustration of King's knowledge of and fondness for small communities.

Yeah, that's it for specifics.  Definitely an interesting collection all around.   
