Count Down promises to be the story of six students who compete their way to a place on the 2001 U.S. Math Olympiad Team and what happens once they get to the big contest. I was expecting something like the excellent documentary Spellbound, which was about some of the kids who made it to the National Spelling Bee one year. I was a bit disappointed.

Count Down is best when it is about the students, but author Steve Olson often digresses to talk about topics related to math. He discusses what genius is, how math is taught in the U.S., why there aren't more girls on the U.S. team, the history of math contests, and much more. These are all interesting and pertinent topics, but I found that what I really wanted to know more about was the kids themselves. 

Maybe a spelling bee is just inherently more dramatic since it takes place on stage, while the math contest takes place at desks and inside the contestants' heads. The whole notion of a math "team" in this case is misleading, since the members' individual scores are added together to determine the team score. They don't solve the problems as a team, although they train together. The top individuals are recognized as well, so I'm not sure what the point of a "math team" is.

Still, I did learn some odd facts, such as that much of the behavior in nature that is considered inborn or instinctive, isn't. Day-old chicks who were thought to eat mealworms instinctively, fail to do so if the chicks' feet are covered. Young chimpanzees who supposedly have an inborn fear of snakes, do not shy away from snakes if the chimps' diet is changed. This sort of knowledge challenges the nature vs. nurture arguments regarding I.Q. and genius.

Count Down is a good book about math education, but it doesn't have the drama or suspense that a good contest should have. For a good book about competition, try Cookoff, about cooking competitions in the U.S. For a good book about math, try either My Brain is Open or The Man Who Loved Only Numbers, both good biographies of Paul Erdos, eccentric Hungarian mathematician.




