Disclaimer: I know the author, contributed to the book being reviewed, and my picture even made it into the book.  But as those who know me will attest, I don't write "puff piece" reviews.  I write what I think and let the chips fall where they may.  OK, on to the review...

First off, Shirl Kennedy has more than earned her bones when it comes to bikes and riding.  And she tells things as they are - the tale of a Suzuki GS1000G, The Beast, for example, is not totally complimentary but the story is in the book because it matters.  The bike was more than a handful for her, and she isn't afraid to say so.  Shirl tells her stories with warts and all, not the fantasy of "everything's always too, too grand while riding".  

Second, Shirl knows how to find information and sources about almost any topic that can be thought of.  The Savvy Guide to Motorcycles contains more URL's, links, and contact info, for almost anything motorcycle-related, than any other "bike book" I can think of.  This information alone is worth the cost of the book.

Third, Shirl knows how to put her experiences and her information on the page in a way that's easy to read but still puts the information where you can find it, not behind a thicket of self-impressed blather.  

If I have any problems with this book, it's with the editorial choices.  There are times when I think the jargon might have been toned down a bit but, hey, I like "Hawaiian" pizza and some folks don't - we all have our own likes and dislikes.  While I'm at it, a dope slap to the back of the editor's head for letting some typos get past the proofreaders and for some ...ah... curious text layout choices ("widows and orphans" errors or poorly broken paragraphs, for example).  But, for all of that, the fact checking is solid, the artwork is well chosen, and the overall design of the book is reader-friendly.  

While this book is aimed more towards folks coming back to bikes after a 10 or 20 year break from riding, there's a lot of useful information for "never-ever" riders and even "I've been riding non-stop since the first day I could fork a mini-bike" riders. The information is accessable and it's well presented.  A simple, direct, informative book about a fascinating subject, written by someone who's been there and done it - what more can a reader ask for? 
