The following is submitted by the author as a rebuttal to two of the Amazon.com customer reviews of this book:

In general, this book was written shortly after the conclusion of the Cold War, and in a large part intended to be a tribute to the legacy of the cloak and dagger intrigue that characterized that era.  In those days we knew exactly who the enemy was.  At the time, none of us could have predicted the emergent environment wherein the threats to U.S. citizens and interests proliferated significantly.  This new reality has made the book more widely applicable to security professionals now then when it was originally published, which is the reason its sales have steadily increased over the years.

Although the review does state that the book is "worth buying", the three star review submitted by "RunAndShoot" criticizes the book for being written in a "simple" manner.  
This book is not intended to entertain, it is intended to inform.  A primary purpose for this book is that it be used as a training resource by security professionals.  For this reason, it is written in a very detailed and straight forward manner.  The feedback received from security professionals is that the book conveys very complex techniques in a manner that is easily understood, and easily translated into training programs.

As to the two star review by "truthsleuthpi" that criticizes the book for being of "little value to private investigators" --  I do not question the reviewer's credentials, but it is misleading to give a publication a poor rating because it does not necessarily apply to the specific circumstance of a resource-constrained PI.  In fact, the book clearly addresses the premise of the reviewer's critique in the preface as follows:
"A surveillance operation can be conducted from one extreme of detail to the other.  This book instructs to the extreme of a fully integrated, systematic effort employed for extended periods of time with absolute discretion.  Granted, the requirements of many readers may not reach this extreme, but the information herein will satisfy the objectives of surveillance at any point along the operational continuum.  Although the degree of sophistication detailed in this book may not be necessary for many surveillance operations, any individuals with the expertise to operate at the extreme of sophistication can certainly adapt to any operational requirement."
Therefore, the book is criticized based on its relevance to one reader rather than its technical content.  Also, one would assume that even those who operate on a small-scale level would take professional interest in how the world's elite operate.  Despite some questionable contradictions, it appears that the reviewer does exercise innovation in that he uses book reviews at Amazon.com as a means to advertise for business.

The reviewers each have a perspective, but the facts are that this book is regarded as a "classic", has steadily increasing sales, is every bit as relevant today as the date it was published, and it is widely used as a training resource by such major professional security agencies as Wackenhut International.

Although the book has five star reviews and the author agrees with these ratings, this "review" is submitted with four stars because a rating is required, but the purpose of this rebuttal is to address specific reviewer issues and not impact the Amazon.com average customer review for this publication.


