Choquette's latest woo-woo book describes how to work with the spiritual realm. She divides spirits into categories such as water, fire, earth, aira, and other elemental notions of spirit guides. She also continues to describe, using stories from her clients, of the many ways spirits get our attention and how she came to know her own spirit helpers throughout her life. This book is a complement to the deck of the same name for users to work with their own guides as they navigate life.

Before God created the Earthly realm occupied by humans, animals, and plants he created an entire spirit world comprised of etheral beings. In religious books there are guidlines for spiritual gifts as not all spirits are of God. Jesus said not to trust every spirit for some are, as Choquette calls them, negative entities. So ... whom better to learn about the spirit world than someone who claims to have been an Essene in a previous life (an ancient Jewish order) as well as a follower of Christ who was taught by the Messiah himself how to be a psychic in her Diary of a Psychic.

Given that many have already reviewed this spirit-based book .... I urge you to read their takes and synopsis of this book. Given some of Choquette's own religious connotations in As Your Guides, I'll leave you with my own supplementary counsel:

Whether or not we are aware of it or not, the spirit world competes for our minds. As Choquette said of negative entities let me build upon that advice of beware. 

The Apostle Paul explains how Darker forces can transmit negative vibrations via these entities:

Ephesians 2:1-3 (New International Version)

As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, 2in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. 3All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature[a] and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath.

Luke 4:6 (New International Version): In his Gospel Luke (I wonder if he knew Sonia when she was getting her psychic lessons in a past life from Jesus ... alas after the Council of Nicea we shall never know for sure) ... the Dark side tempted Jesus in the Desert ... like Mara did to Buddha under the Bodhi Treee. Hmmmm .... I wonder who is copying whose religious mythology ... but I digress

6And he said to him, "I will give you all their authority and splendor, for it has been given to me, and I can give it to anyone I want to.

Deuteronomy 18:10-12 (New International Version)
New International Version (NIV)
Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984 by International Bible Society

    
10 Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or daughter in [a] the fire, who practices divination or sorcery, interprets omens, engages in witchcraft, 11 or casts spells, or who is a medium or spiritist or who consults the dead. 12 Anyone who does these things is detestable to the LORD, and because of these detestable practices the LORD your God will drive out those nations before you.

***Did Sonia when she was an Essen know about this?****

Anyways ... to be honest ... the only true spirit you can trust is The Holy Spirit.

