Written in 1948, this engrossing tale of a group of misplaced wartime Brits in a poor backwater in West Africa touches on so many human qualities that it is a chronicle of our mortality. Foremost is the perfectly presented portrait of a marriage that has turned into a lie for both Henry Scobie, the honest policeman of this coastal town, and his "literary" wife, Louise, who has become the object of pity and contempt for all the frustrated local British "club" members who constantly mind one another's business. Scobie no longer loves his wife but can't bring himself to hurting her. He simply pities her. And Louise no longer loves Henry and wants desperately to escape from West Africa, especially when she finds out that her "Ticki" has been passed up for promotion to Commissioner. The atmosphere becomes dark and twisted as a young man, Wilson, appears on the scene and, in his youthful stupidity, falls in love with Louise while he conducts secret investigations on British authorities suspected of aiding in the smuggling of industrial diamonds through Africa to Germany. Scobie is one of those suspects. A marvelously film noir portrait of a corrupt Syrian merchant, Yusef, is thrown into the mix. I can see Sidney Greenstreet doing this part to perfection in a screen adaptation. Add jealousy, desperation, a contrast of honesty and lies, sex, and the tortured feelings of a deeply religious man and you have most of what this novel contains. O yes, and then, as always, there's the brilliant writing of Graham Greene, his wonderful metaphors, crystal clear descriptions, and fantastic insights into the crabbed and self-defeating thought processes of his characters. All this equals a modern classic. My only complaint is a bit of redundancy and pedantry regarding Catholicism, a religion I cannot stomach anymore, and my personal disbelief that someone like Scobie can take Catholicism so seriously. But this is my own thing. Greene remains brilliant, original, and indeed, "the ultimate chronicler of twentieth-century man's consciousness and anxiety," or at least one of the top five
