If a Christ or Buddha figure were alive today, what would his (or her) teachings look like? If Maitreya's Teachings: The Laws of Life is any indication--and from the freshness and vibrancy of this book, one hopes that it is--then these teachings would reflect the concerns of an eminently modern man, one who speaks in simple but deeply resonant terms about the most urgent problems of the day--social, economic, political, environmental, and religious. Indeed, the teachings in this volume, which take almost extended aphoristic form, are intended not so much to express truths as to change readers, spiritually, ethically, and politically: "This is not philosophy. I am teaching you live things, not `past, present and future.'" But this is a voice outside of ideology and "isms," one that offers awareness yet makes no claim on the reader. The Teacher, Maitreya, states: "Do not run after Me. I have not come to found a new religion. . . . [but to] teach the art of Self-realization." Maitreya's teachings on the art of Self-realization, whose principles in simplest form involve practicing honesty, sincerity, and detachment, are never sententious. These "live" teachings have the uncanny quality of being both familiar and absolutely new, and reading them, one feels not only the ring of truth, but also a growing sense of enlightenment, freedom, and hope.

Maitreya's wisdom on the laws of life extends beyond the personal, however, to the collective and global. The text offers a razor-sharp assessment of the state of the world, on topics as wide-ranging as the environment, commercialization and market forces, poverty and world hunger, education, politics, war, terrorism, fundamentalism, drugs, energy, healing, and the all-important law of cause and effect, to name a few. A new awareness is transforming the world's structures--economic, political, and cultural--before our eyes, and, according to Maitreya, we stand on the verge of a new era of justice, freedom, and equilibrium: "The dissolution of ancient patterns of thought and behaviour has begun. Polarities will dissolve. Extreme differences between rich and poor will begin to disappear. . . . Political and religious rigidities will dissolve. New forms of government will arise across the globe. . . . People everywhere are becoming aware, and will be unwilling to be dominated by others when their destiny is to be free. Governments everywhere will have to listen to the people. Government will be by the people, for the people." These are weighty and hopeful pronouncements, to be sure. But what is particularly striking among this collection of communications from Maitreya--which were recorded by two British journalists between 1988 and 1993 during interviews with a close associate of Maitreya's in London, and published in the monthly magazine Share International--are a number of astonishing predictions that have in fact taken place, foretelling, for example, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the release of Nelson Mandela and the end of apartheid in South Africa.

In his preface to Maitreya's Teachings: The Laws of Life, the editor of the volume, and chief editor of Share International, Benjamin Creme, who serves as something of an ambassador to the world for this World Teacher, by name Maitreya, claims that this extraordinary Master descended from retreat in the Himalaya and took up residence in London, England in 1977. There, since then, Creme says, this figure "has lived in London's large Asian community, awaiting the moment to emerge openly as the World Teacher for all groups, religious and non-religious alike." Whoever Maitreya is, his teachings seem like him to have fallen from the sky into our human atmosphere, and reading them may bring the experience of freedom within, and of a new equilibrium: "Remain open-minded. Enjoy life. When you enjoy life, it is as if you are sitting on the beach looking at the vast ocean. At that moment you experience serenity, tranquility, detachment within. You do not think of your bank account at that moment. Nobody lectures you at that moment. The gift of life flowers within you. Experience this and you will realize you are a unique person. You are unique in this creation.
