I love this little tale of escapism! How often does a woman discovers both herself and her true love, ibidem (Latin: in the same place) ? At Middle age, almost 30, Lady Dona St Columb is in crisis and "becomes a boy" off the Cornwall English shore and lives, loves, and pillages ID, EGO, SUPEREGO only to discover life and it's sacrifices can be as or more adventuresome as the Frenchman's. This romantic sojourn is reflective of DuMaurier's struggle as she patiently waits for her husband during his Military Service years. Ladies and Gents, haven't we ALL answered this Freudian question when we discover our own crossroads between the Sparkled Bells and Whistle's love and the comfortable, enduring love of the friend that we vowed to spend our lives with? Dona choosing Harry, her son and dogs, is not sad or unendurable, because she knows who Dona is now. And, the handsome scoundrel, Jean is the better for having loved her.
THE FRENCHMAN'S CREEK, set in 17th-century Cornwall, England,  is an absorbing tale. Passionate, bored Lady St. Columb  flees her lover and her fashionable life at Court to the peace of her husband's Cornwall estate. Quite unexpectedly, she stumbles on the mooring place of the white-sailed ship belonging to the daring Frenchman who plunders the shores of Cornwall. This Frenchman is dangerous, wanted, charming, urbane, and handsome. He is also her doppelganger daring her, Dona, to discover herself and in loving Jean, she'll love the true Dona St Columb. It is only a question of time before this philosopher-pirate captures the heart of the lovely Lady St. Columb. Satisfying, and romantic from cover to cover.
As in REBECCA and JAMAICA INN, DuMaurier introduces to the reader her most beloved character: the beautiful landscape of Cornwall in the first chapter. Other reviewers have said to skip it or read after finishing the book, but the chapter is as important as DuMaurier's "Last time I saw Manderley..." While this leading lady may not be perceived as 'dark' as the ladies in REBECCA or JAMAICA INN, the fact that Lady St Columb is a bored adulteress who becomes 'boy' on a scoundrel's ship is. Such scandalous behavior, especially set in 17th Century England had never been portrayed as DuMaurier has. 
To me, FRENCHMAN'S CREEK reads as wonderful swashbuckling movie starring Errol Flynn and Loretta Young. How can a girl resist a hansome scoundral who still has some honor about him and understand's emotional and intellectual intimacy is everything to a woman?
