"Rapture" is a truly interesting book, and worthy of serious consideration. It explores the bio-utopian impulse in modern America, charting the last thirty-some years of research into human biology and how it might apply to a range of issues. These include not only the decoding of the human genome for the improvement of human life, but also the possibilities of life extension for decades and perhaps centuries. Those who advocate life extension see a "brave new world," pun intended, in which all are healthy, happy, and wise. They view it as the next stage in human evolution. It is a heady goal, one that has consumed some billionaires and fueled a revolution in bio-technology. Public advocates in the United States range from billionaire William Haseltine to Ray Kurzweil, but include thousands more in a subculture known to few.

Advocacy of bio-utopian ideas opens a wide array of ethical considerations, and opposition to it has ensured a rollicking debate between the extreme positions. The bio-luddites, in author Brian Alexander's parlance, question the morality of altering the human body through genetics, chemicals, or technology. They recall images of Nazi eugenics and the selective breeding of humans. Those in favor, of course, emphasize the positive results of intervention in whatever form it might take. 

My own interest in this subject comes from my study of the past, present, and possible future of spaceflight. For instance, one of the truly fascinating developments associated with interstellar spaceflight is the possibility of a trans-human migration. In fulfilling the spacefaring dream, the intelligent life to leave Earth and colonize the galaxy may not be entirely human in form. Extensive discussions have taken place in recent years on the relationship between artificial computer intelligence, biotechnology, and human evolution. In spite of its obvious relevance to space travel, little of this has been extended to outer space, and it is not in "Rapture" either, but it offers a fascinating possibility. 

The rigors of galactic flight that will likely confine humans to the inner solar system might not confine reengineered humans that have a cyborg quality about them. Given the great difficulties of interstellar flight, humans reengineered to withstand long duration space travel, possibly iwth technological enhancements might represent the future of spaceflight. The possibilities are truly amazing and somewhat weird, and as remote today from common experience as were the early images of space travel to the people who first envisioned them. Nonetheless, they are not wholly impossible. Because of current directions in technology, a trans-human galaxy is not beyond the realm of possibility. In one such vision, biological species become so technologically proficient that they cease to exist in purely biological form. The possibilities for trans-human evolution has the potential to radically alter the dominant paradigm of human spaceflight.

This interesting popular history of the trans-human movement is an important statement of an evolving debate in modern American society. We see vestiges of it in everything from the controversies over stem cell research to the fight over cloning. While I await a scholarly history of the trans-human movement, this work by Brian Alexander is a fine addition to the literature.
