Never was a subtitle more appropriate.  Muscle: Confessions of an Unlikely Bodybuilder explains perfectly what this book is about.  Sam Fussell's parents are scholars, literary critics.  He grew up in Princeton, and went to college in Oxford.  Nothing in his past could have hinted to his future.  His transformation started in NYC.  Sam was intimidated by the street characters, the thugs and the mentally unstable, and even though he was tall (6'4"), he was also a string bean.  The book has photos to prove it.  So he joined the YMCA, started to lift weights, and bodybuilding became his obsession.  He made a 180° turn and abandoned "civilization" (more or less, that's what his family and friends thought), and focused completely on bodybuilding, much to the chagrin of his parents.

The book is great in that it gives a sneak peek into the lifestyle of bodybuilding.  I had no idea of what was involved.  I knew it had to do with a lot of pumping iron and steroids, but that's nothing.  Sam goes into great details as to his daily life, his diet, his training, his "supplements".  Equally fascinating is the entire culture, more like a "cult", that surrounds bodybuilding, and his descriptions of Vinnie, Nimrod, Sweetpea, and all his other buddies on both coasts.

Parallel to the account of his life as a bodybuilder, Sam goes deep into his reasons for pursuing such a career.  I can't remember a more honest memoir.  He certainly gets to the bottom of his fears, his insecurities, and describes his muscles as a sort of armor that would protect him not from muggers, but from life itself.  He was afraid of living.  Not to go into too much psychoanalysis, but I can see how some of Sam's insecurities may have been coming from an emotionally unavailable father.  When Sam finally quits bodybuilding and tells his father that he's going to write a memoir, Paul Fussell replies: "All is forgiven, literature is bigger than people".  What a thing to say.  What is to forgive?  The fact that he didn't become a lawyer, like you had expected?

The book has some wonderful photos of Sam, before and after his transformation. The photos are very necessary to understand some of the competition poses.  They are also easy on the eyes.  What a hunkalicious bod.  And what a dreamy face!  Quite a complete package, smart, articulate, sensitive, handsome and ripped.
