The tawdry glamour of Temple Hill, Bradfield is the setting for Val McDermid's latest thriller The Torment of Others. Home of prostitutes, rent boys, homeless people, and drug dealers; redbrick and seedy, Temple Fields harbors shop fronts with little allure, small entrepreneurial businesses with rundown, dilapidated bed sits above. It's a foggy, disparate inner-city suburb, and an easy place for a serial killer to hide and strike without warning.  

Someone, haunted by "the Voice" has begun to prowl the streets of Temple Fields at night. The Voice is inside his head, telling him it's time to move again, time for the next chapter of the lesson, and time for another cleansing. He doesn't think of the prostitutes as individuals with a name; he'll just think of them as rubbish that has to be got rid of before it poisons the world he has to live in. 

In The Torment of Others, the scruffy profiler Dr. Tony Hill and the hardheaded, intuitive detective Carol Jordan are back in the city of Bradfield, working together again to find this killer who is tying up prostitutes and killing them slowly while a video camera records in the background. The women are being murdered in a manner identical to a previous investigation three years ago, but the killer, Derek Tyler confessed to the murders and has been incarcerated in the Bradfield Moor Secure Hospital, where Tony now works. 

Carol, in her battle for restoration, is pushed by her boss John Brandon to mount an undercover operation using DC Paula McIntyre, who resembles the victims. Not only does this bring back awful memories for Carol, who was raped in an undercover operation, but also because the operation itself ends up going goes awry. Tony is perplexed that the killer knows so much about the police's maneuverings. Could it be an inside job? Could the killer have perhaps had help from someone on the Force? 

Tony is convinced that Derek Tyler knows something about the modus operandi of the murders and attempts to break the killer's three-year silence through some sharp psychological interrogation. He even tells Carol that there could be two killers, who are being manipulated to be instruments of someone else's murderess fantasies. A voyeur turned puppet-master who is getting off on the assertion of absolute power and is controlling and masterminding the whole production. This "someone" uses bondage because it increases the foolproof quality of the attack and his victims are submissive from the start. 

Like the handcuffs that are used to grip the young girls to the bed, this deftly plotted and totally suspenseful novel holds you tight and never lets you go. Like no other author, McDermid excels in presenting the darker side of human nature, the world of psych-sexual deviancy that can lurk just beneath the surface of everyday lives. 

For the first time Tony and Carol find themselves stumped in their efforts to map the mind of the murderer. For some reason the killers mind feels "as slippery as saturated autumn leaves that would fall apart in his hands before Tony could examine them." And although Tony knows that finding the killer involves first finding the thread, the problem is untangling the web of external symbols and translating their meanings.

Atmospheric and riveting, this terrific book jumps out at you and never loses pace. The obvious is turned inside out as the plot twists in a serpentine path to a nail-biting ending. The characters are completely realistic, especially the emotionally fraught Carol as she tries to resist the easy comfort of alcohol - nervous of its easy promise of oblivion. She keeps telling herself that she doesn't want to sleepwalk through the aftermath of rape. "She wants to deal with it, to unpick its effects and put herself back together in something approximating the right order."

McDermid is a master of cunning and innovative plot twists; and the author well knows the intricacies of police procedural and the criminal mind, the easy deception inherent in human nature. She writes from the heart, with what she knows so well - the uneasy psychology of the serial killer.

In Temple Fields, the streets form a web around the spider's prey; life goes on in patterns too deep-set to be altered by the heavy weight of the police presence. And the killer continues to swagger on, wrapped in a sense of contemptuous invulnerability. No one is as they seem in this highly enthralling and gripping novel with a nail biting ending that is full of surprises as it is action-packed. Mike Leonard July 05. 
