Dark Ages is a brave and energetic polemic about a dirty little secret that is little talked about, and that is that the science of human behavior is actually nothing of the sort. 

Whilst the scientific method has been applied with vigor and determination to the rest of the natural world, it has been used in a very odd way to explain social behavior. Instead of the application of falsifiable hypotheses, the explanations for human behaviors are rooted more in ideology than science. Lee McIntyre contends that the majority of philosophers and social scientists do not have the courage to make an empirical inquiry into the causes of human action. They often cite a number of reasons why the scientific method cannot be applied to understanding such tragedies as terrorism and starvation. Lee expertly demolishes each of these major objections.

Obviously tens of thousands of social scientists have not been sitting on their hands. But Lee suggest that their work needs to be sharpened, the focus changed, and above all, the assumptions of their work need to be challenged. This is always hard. However hard-nosed we may think that we are, every time that we do an experiment or responds to something in the news, we bring a lot of baggage with us. There are many practical problems with any attempt to challenge or change the status quo. Not the least of which is grant support. Stories abound of people failing to get grant support because their work flew in the face of "received wisdom."

This is a highly readable book of only 144 pages, excluding an eight-page introduction. And those 144 pages include some notes, a short bibliography and an index. I am no speed-reader, but I still finished the book in an hour or so, and thoroughly enjoyed the experience.

After the introduction, there are five chapters:
1. Diagnosing the human condition
2. A science of human behavior
3. Resistance to knowledge
4. A lesson from the history of science
5. What is to be done?

Although polemic in style, it is also an optimistic book with some highly practical suggestions for applying scientific rigor to the understanding of some of the most fundamental problems facing us today.

As he says in closing, "A science of human behavior can lead the way out of the current mess of unreason and tragedy that hangs over human affairs. The application of our highest form of reason, science, to the study of our social problems is our best hope for salvation. Even in a dark age, our reason can see us through. Our future may well be brighter that we have imagined it, for scientific inquiry is well equipped to answer the questions that have been put by human misery. The word awaits our response."

I am quite certain that science is not the only road to understanding, but it is an extraordinarily powerful one.

This is an important book that deserves a wide readership. We have to try and understand some of the apparently illogical things happening in our world, or we are all going to be submerged by them.

Highly recommended
