A young man stumbles through the entrance to a mysterious castle now owned by his cousin. Both are hiding baggage from a cloudy past, a childhood ordeal that once threatened to overwhelm them. Amongst the broken and collapsed cluster of castle buildings, the relationship becomes strained when Danny King arrives at a sinister medieval castle in Eastern Europe where he has been given the offer of helping his cousin Howie renovate it into a luxury retreat. 

Burdened with his mistakes of long ago and seeking to escape the randomness and chaos of New York, Danny becomes frustrated by this strange and inscrutable place, with its rock walls, ruined rooms, claustrophobic underground passage ways, and a mysterious round swimming pool, it's water black and thick with scum, stinking with something from deep inside the earth.

Whilst the castle seems to be conspiring to drag the young Danny down, the sights and sounds, and even the smells of the place seem to excite and thrill Howard, it's as though he just can't get enough of it.  Whilst Howard, and his wife Ann and young son, are thrilled with the delights of the castle, Danny continues to be haunted by his memories of how he tricked Howie and left him for dead in a cave when they were kids; it was a terrible error in judgment, which he is unable to forget. 

Determined to stay connected to the outside world, Danny brings along a portable satellite in order to link to "his 304 instant messaging surnames and a buddy list of 180," along with his girlfriend. As he tries to feel "connected to his connectedness," nothing can assuage the feeling that Danny is miserable. With the sinister atmosphere of the castle encompassing him, he decides he wants to get away. 

But it is the Keep, the mysterious tower that ultimately seduces Danny. Here he meets with an enigmatic woman called the Baroness " an ancient hag who looks more dead than alive" who clams that the castle and all the land around it in every direction is hers. She despises Americans, calling them mongrels and resents the intrusion by Howard into her solace. When Danny finally meets her, sees a ghost who turns into a young girl with long blond hair. 

What exactly is the Keep? Howard isn't allowed near the tower because the Baroness has threatened him. But is the Keep something more metaphysical, a path perhaps to Danny's own inner-keep, his tortured soul? Plagued by the sudden visions he has by the pool, a scene of a boy and girl, Danny determines that the inside his head that will blow a whole right through the middle of Howard's life. 

Forbiddingly atmospheric and steeped in secrecy, the Baroness calls to Danny, but is she just a part of a dream? Only later, when Howard, Danny and the rest of the renovators are trapped in the underground tunnels, facing the torture chamber below the Keep, are the cousins under pressure able to come to terms and bring closure on their past. 

As author Jennifer Egan layers her maze-like plot, the narrative shifts to a man called Ray incarcerated for murder in a maximum-security prison taking a creative writing course, and careful to make sure that a manuscript he has written stays in safekeeping. He's got a crush on his teacher Holly, an ex-meth addict who is struggling to keep it together, she doesn't want him to see that she's vulnerable and overwhelmed pure sadness - a sadness mixed up with guilt, responsibility and loss.

The Keep is part modern gothic novel, and part disturbing suspense thriller and also part morality play where reality spins out of control and where imagination is intermingled with tunnels and dungeons and torture chambers with skeletons. It is wise not take any of the characters at face value, but they are certainly all tortured and are even ordained to collide, their futures hopelessly intertwined. It is to Egan's talent as a writer that she can so thoroughly convince us of their fears in a world that is almost dreamlike in its intensity. Mike Leonard September 06. 
