The excerpt below, with brief commentary, will hopefully provide at least one example of the multi-faceted approach that Ms. Sciolino has taken in preparing this book. Elaine Sciolino is an Italian-American and serves as the Paris Bureau Chief for the New York Times at the time of this publication.

Page 318, excerpt:

	"In the spring of 1995, inflation hit Iran hard. One morning the independently operated minibuses that transported day laborers to Tehran doubled their fares. The commuters revolted, blocking the roads and preventing the minibuses from leaving."

Chaos ensued. Banks were burned down from town to town, until the mob reached Islamshahr and continued the streak. Windows were smashed, gas stations burned, the Ministry of Education attacked.

	"The government rushed in anti-riot police, who fired wildly and fought hit-and-run battles with protestors. Plainclothes intelligence officials patrolled the streets and arrested dozens of people. By the time the riots were put down at nightfall, the streets were strewn with broken glass, burned tires, bricks, and rubble. Several people had been killed. The next day, hundreds of police officers lined the streets of Islamshahr as authorities bused in thousands of people to chant pro-government slogans. The families of the dead were made to repay the police for the bullets that had been fired. Public mourning was prohibited. No official death toll was released.

	But the bus fares came down."

The harsh realities of a sickly economy and ignorant policy strike hard in the heart of suppressive governments. The Ayatollah Khomeini was renowned for his vitriolic criticism of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and his extravagance in the ancient city of Persepolis. He criticized the filth and corruption of monarchy and yet, supremely ruled over the Persians with ruthless ferocity, regulating every word and watching every action. 

If these are the pre-requisites for a strong Islamic republic, then it is clear that reason (that is, human intellect) does not play a critical role by the standards of the Iranian Islamic clerics. With these clerics in positions of political power, the economic forces of poverty and suppression of the human spirit in expression will ultimately reach a tipping point and shift the balance, once again, as in 1999, to a more liberal-minded Iran. For now, Ahmadinejad will do his best to close his country's eyes to the illegal viewing of CNN and the subtle acts of feminine defiance on the streets of Tehran. 

Page 323, excerpt: 
	"But Iran's problems run far deeper than unpredictable commodity prices. Structurally, the economy would not make sense to either a committed capitalist or a committed socialist."

Another structural problem with Iran's economy is the system of bonyads, foundations that were established after the revolution by confiscating private wealth across the country, including assets of former American diplomats. This type of program has alarming parallels in Venezuela and Bolivia led by Messrs. Ch?vez and Morales, respectively.

Ms. Sciolino has a way of describing the horrendous economic situation and yet the face of calm that Iran manages to present to the international community with a sense of detachment. The book is unquestionably biased. Namely, Ms. Sciolino has feminist tendencies and is clearly unhappy with the Islamic Revolution's mandate that women, including herself as a foreign visitor, must sport the chador. Nevertheless, her writing has a keen sense of detached observation that in the end gives a sense that what we are dealing with in Iran is not simply the tyranny of a radical regime, but an entirely different culture. Perhaps that culture is driven by ignorance and falsehood that is embedded into the minds of the young. What we are sure of is that there exists remarkable support for this regime and an even more spectacular capacity of the public to balance a public and private life, the latter often differing dramatically from the former.

The fact that most of the content in this book is born from actual travel experience and interviews over the past few decades make it a worthwhile read. Ms. Sciolino's literary skills are sufficient and provide a good first step into better understanding Iran and eliminating some generalized media perceptions
