SUMMARY.  This is an uneven contribution.  On the plus side, the book does a very nice job of articulating America's financial problems in a very readable format.  Unfortunately, the author's credibility is undermined by the inclusion of very questionable statements on a variety of topics tangential to the book's primary focus.  In particular, he has a consistent bias against traditional pharmaceutical companies and for "natural" remedies.  

BACKGROUND.  I am a recently-retired life scientist looking to preserve my retirement nest egg.  I am not an experienced investor, but have begun a very serious effort to take a more active role in my investments.  Thus, I have recently read MANY historic and contemporary texts on economics and investing.

THE BOOK.  It is not news that Ameica has serious economic problems related to a chronic "borrow and spend" mentality.  One strength of this book is to suggest how the federal government and corporate America have consciously contributed to the evolution of this problem.  While other books have also attempted to analyze these contributions,  this book provides a particularly detailed, yet easily digested summary of the various government agences, laws and policies.  The book also clearly articulates concerns about the formulas used to calculate of common economic indicators (e.g., CPI, inflation, GDP) on which we depend.

Unfortunately, the credibility of the author is seriously undermined by the inclusion of many questionable statements.  For example:

"All it really takes in most cases for a healthy life style is to avoid the toxic food additives from the food industry and to abandon the pill-popping recommendations issued by physicians who have been brainwashed and manipulated by pharmaceutical drug reps." (pg. 104).  

"Today is a very different America and virtually everyone needs a car, land-based telephone, mobile phone, PDA and computer to survive." (pg. 248).  COMMENT: I know many successful professional people who do not use a PDA, and even some who don't use a mobile phone. 

"One physician has been highly successful in the use of table sugar in treating these wounds.  That's right, I said table sugar!" (pg. 355).

"Corporations have gotten so big and power from extensive lobbying in Washington that they will serve their shareholders at any cost, even if it means violation of American laws, or economic sabotage."  COMMMENT: Not only is this statement unsubstantiated, but the obvious grammatical error is one of many in the book.

For me, the net effect of the questionable statements (in areas where I am knowledgeable) was to question the potential biases of the author in economic areas where I am naive.  Nonetheless, this book has highlighted many issues of which I was previously unaware, and I am now highly motivated to explore some of the issues in subsequent reading. 
