I feel as if I had met the man.  The book is detailed, from his grandfather till after his death.  After reading his accomplishments I feel small and insignificant.  He was always awaiting his destiny, and that there was some greater purpose for him.  (I know how he felt.)  "Can I live up to the standards of my forefathers."   He had a strong belief in God and providence.  There is no doubt he was probably one of the finest military commanders ever.  And also quite possibly the greatest actors in the war, to his own admission.  It seems as though he had a guardian angel looking over him or else he had a felines nine lives.  Too many close calls to even list, even a couple of unexploded ordinances landed within feet of him.  A man of moods.  Could chew you out one minute, then give you a big fat grin seconds later.  He would shed tears for you if you were dying or after seeing the carnage of war.  But he could also see the beauty in it.   I believe God gives each of us unique talents.  We need men who can fight wars for us.  He loved to fight so much that he could not live any other way.  It is what he was born to do.  Attack, and don't let up.  He would not send his men to do something that he himself would not do.  He had a knack for getting in trouble with the brass.  He almost got cut short of his destiny, but he was just too important to be sitting on the bench. The war was not only fought against the axis but also between our own generals and allies.  I am truly grateful for such an outstanding leader.  But what troubled me more than anything, for which he was chastised for, is his racist / evolutionary remarks, and at times pride.   We need to give part of his success to a loving and tolerant wife. 

For such an extensive book I wish there would have been more details of the battles and of Patton's beloved tank.  But I guess that is why the book is called Patton.

If I would of read this book when I was 16 (if of course it had been written then) I may well have signed up for the military academy to become an officer. 
