While organic may be what people imagine as the hardest part of chemistry, most chemistry majors view physical chemistry ("PChem" for short) as the most difficult course.  McQuarrie and Simon's book, however, is both incredibly clear and user-friendly.  

PChem is often dreaded because of the mathematics involved, but the "MathChapter" interludes McQuarrie provides do a good job in bringing the readers up to speed on what they will need in subsequent chapters.  Of course, a subject like this will be easier the more mathematically proficient you are coming in, but I did not enter the course with very solid knowledge of the finer points of complex numbers or determinants, and found the tutorials given very helpful.

As for the chemistry itself, the material is well organized, and fairly great pains are taken to illustrate a qualitative physical interpretation of a phenomenon, after presenting the equations that govern it.  Naturally, this is not always possible (cf. quantum-mechanical phenomena such as exchange integrals that have no classical counterpart), but it does greatly reduce the tendency for the reader to learn a concept as "just because the math says so."

As for the treatment of equations, this text avoids, for the most part, the temptation to eschew derivations in favor of phrases like "it can be shown that...", though some hand-waving is done in the statistical mechanics sections.  Some derivations are left to end-of-chapter problems, which do provide a type of rather advanced exercise; however, many students will end up spending more time on the sort or simpler numerical problems that are more likely to show up on your average exam.  Still, most of the really vital equations are thoroughly derived.

As for flaws, the greatest is the utter omission of electrochemistry from the text.  It's a fairly important part of practical thermodynamics, and it's rather a shame for it to be so unceremoniously dropped.  The book does have a fairly large number of typos, but they're by and large of the misspelling sort ("enthaplies" of formation, anyone?) and aren't likely to cause confusion.

A final note: this text has been hailed as revolutionary for its treatment of quantum mechanics before thermodynamics.  However, Oberlin's two PChem courses (Quantum Chemistry and Kinetics/Chemical and Statistical Thermodynamics) may be taken in either order, and I ended up taking Thermo first, using this book.  My lack of training in quantum mechanics at the time did not hinder my understanding; it's merely a matter of accepting the standard quantum energy expressions (particle in a box, harmonic oscillator, rigid rotor) in the derivations of the partition functions you need for stat mech.  The book is quite compartmentalized in this fashion, really
