This book is jam packed with insights and studies on why employees leave companies, or worse, disengage from the roles and stay.  Woven throughout the book are 55 "Engagement Tips" to improve the culture and environment of your workplace or leadership to keep your top talent deeply engaged and contributing.   

At the heart of the book is the deep look into some why employees leave, and several comprehensive studies are summarized here to help dissect the real reasons your company may be losing talent.  When it comes to determining the real reasons for dissatisfaction, and eventual disengagement from your company, some of the key reasons center around "mismatch" between the job and the person, and basic leadership failures around coaching, feedback, value, recognition, trust, confidence in leadership, and a lack of a career development opportunity.

What I found most useful were the many insights into the psychology of how and why people feel valued and stay loyal.  The book lists four fundamental human needs, which if not met, are triggers for disengagement and loss of talent;  Trust; Hope: Worth; Feeling Competent. (Page 20).  The quote that opens the section on coaching and feedback sums up the gap, and connection to the psychology involved in ensuring your organization can retain its key talent:  "The manager needs to look at the employee not as a problem to be solved, but as a person to be understood." (Page 70).   The connection and human dynamic is demonstrated with clarity as the key to creating an environment that enables engaged performers, but it is also one of the most common gaps in leadership today.

Another key element is the changing paradigm of what employees expect.  The book compares and contrasts and "old contract" with a "new contract" and looks at the differences between what is expected by today's workers and how this has changed over time.  (Page 98).   While covered extensively in other works, the book here also examines again the reasons why recognition, so vital to employee satisfaction and engagement, is often so absent from corporate leadership skills.  (Page 122).

Overall, this book is a great resource and tremendously valuable topic for anyone whose business or organizational success is dependent on the talent and performance of their people.  There are enough charts, graphs, studies, bullet points and sources here to keep the most analytic person engaged throughout.   A very comprehensive and well done collection of studies and information which provide a clear roadmap for improving the engagement and performance of your people while lowering attrition and disengagement.  Highly recommended.
