This is the first Henry James book I read and it isn't the type of book to be read in a day.  Instead, this book is one you bring on vacation, for example, to savor and sink your teeth into as you lounge at the pool and spend your time between hitting the pages and either swimming laps or walking on the beach. Some books are real page-turners that you can't put down. To me, this novel didn't have that type of suspense yet it is nevertheless engrossing enough to keep you coming back for more; that is, after you have had time to properly absorb it in bits and pieces so you can appreciate the themes, ideas, and expressions it so flawlessly expresses. 

James' prose flows as smooth as silk as one page after the next brings you deeper into the lives of his characters, who are all by the way very convincing as real-life people.  The fun thing about this book is that you can read (sort of) into what you think is going to happen to the characters. James' narrative style keeps you guessing until you know for sure, but his reasoning for this to have you analyze the heroine, Isabel Archer (the "lady" in the title), and witness, from a bird's eye-view, how her human follies, impertinence and pride get in the way of her happiness, freedom, and fulfillment of life.  You want to call out a warning to her and say, "oh no, don't do it!" I think we can all relate to the characters in the book in some form: we can either see our own selves in them by recalling our own forays of making the same mistakes, or we see in them people who have come into our lives and made huge differences either positive or negative. While reading the book you'll probably cringe thinking about how one-too-many outspoken Henrietta Stackpoles have invaded your life.   

One aspect of fun in the book turned out to be James' witty opinions (often jabs) expressed by his characters at things British and also things American too. James, having lived in both countries so long, gained ample experience and came to know the culture, customs, and peculiarities of both countries well enough to where he was qualified to make the many tongue-in-cheek remarks, which I happen to find quite amusing.

While I mentioned the story is not a fast paced adventure, it is a true literary beauty that unfolds one page at a time to show various aspects of our humanity: the caring, the wicked, the selfish, the kind-hearted, the deceitful, the foolish, the persistent, the pushy, the capricious, and the vain. These are all packed into this powerful novel that I highly recommend.  Although I reserve five stars for novels that to me are such riveting tales that I couldn't put them down, I still enjoyed this book tremendously and gave it a well-earned four stars.  I will definitely make it a point to read many other novels by Henry James.  
