Panties all across the gay ghettos of America are rapidly forming into wads over Larry Kramer's newest diatribe, The Tragedy of Today's Gays.  Kramer, famous for not holding back even a microscopic amount of vitriol, is doing what I have long been wanting to see - he's takin' the gays to task for their behavior, both past and present, and the lack of leadership in the gay community.

My favorite anti-Kramer argument has already surfaced - that he should shut up because he's giving right-wingers ammunition in their fight against us.  Right. They certainly couldn't go into any gay bar, log on to any gay website or even talk to Joe Gay and figure out for themselves that the gay 'community' is adrift in a sea of narcissistic, hedonistic and ultimately self-destructive behavior.  We do such a good job of keeping that all under wraps, right?  If it weren't for him tellin' tales out of school, we'd look like angels to the rest of the world, right?  Right.

Larry Kramer may not have oodles of tact or the best ability to persuade without beating people over the head while screaming at them, but his argument is based largely upon his belief that there is no more time left to be polite.  He argues (correctly, in my opinion) that gay men are too immature to police themselves.  Drug abuse is skyrocketing, apathy about AIDS has led to a spike in unsafe sex and rampant transmission of STD's - and not just HIV - and politically we are weaker now than we ever were before the dawn of Will & Grace and Ellen.

What's the disconnect?  I would think it's probably that there is a large portion of the gay community that feels like we've already 'arrived' from a civil rights perspective.  Gay bashing is down, most people haven't gotten fired or been kicked out of a home because of their sexuality.  It's exacerbated by the fact that the emotional maturity of the average gay man is in the toilet.  We loathe ourselves, and we loathe each other.  

Perhaps my experience in life is unique, but I've never seen a straight person be as inherently evil or ostracizing as the gays are to each other.  We judge each other based on completely irrelevant and superficial criteria, we alienate based on looks, age, genitalia, income and a host of other things that have absolutely nothing to do with who we are as people.  But when criticized from the outside, we lash out and tell those who disagree with us that they had damn well better love us unconditionally and not judge.  Hypocrisy?

I applaud Mr. Kramer - not necessarily because of the things he has to say, but because he has the courage to say them.  He is essentially holding up a mirror and forcing the gay men of today to look into it - it's not his fault we don't like what we see.  I hope that once the collective masses stop whining about being judged, they'll actually sit back and think, realizing that as a community we are actually moving backwards in our quest for equality, and we're hurting ourselves and each other in the process at unprecedented levels.
