Like most birdlovers around the world, I was very pleased to hear that the ivory-billed woodpecker had been "rediscovered".  The fact that the famous Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology was involved and had published their findings in the journal Science left me with no reasonable doubt that the persistence of this species was now confirmed, and I had little incentive to read Tim Gallagher's book, though I have enjoyed another book by Tim and have even met him in the distant past at a raptor conference and found him to be a very nice fellow.

However, while visiting a friend who is a hard-core birder recently, I found out about a growing skepticism movement involving heretofore silent expert ornithologists who doubt the quality of evidence used to justify the conclusion that the species persists.  I learned that some experts have reviewed the Luneau tape frame by frame and have reached completely opposite conclusions that those reached by Cornell.  And recently Jerome Jackson, author of the scientific species accounts for both pileated and ivory-billed woodpeckers has published his own account in the journal "The Auk" in which he questions the "faith-based ornithology" of the Cornell crew and states his own opinion that the bird seen in the Luneau video is a normal pileated woodpecker.  I find all this controversy within the realm of scientists and birders to be delicious!  And so I read the Gallagher book after all.

This is definitely an enjoyable story, with appropriate color, tensions, historic aspects, and interesting people discussed.  My impression is that Tim Gallagher is a very nice person, hard-working and well-informed on the history and published encounters of various humans over time with the ivory-billed woodpecker.  He is by no means gullible when discussing sightings with a variety of people, but at the same time seems to be incredibly trusting.  I can't recall a single sighting that he discounted of a number of claimed sightings in this book! It is as if Mr. Gallagher wants so much for the bird to be confirmed alive and well that he overcompensates for normal skepticism.  One famous scientist once said that extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof, but no such extraordinary proof has been forthcoming, despite massive levels of effort by incredibly skilled and talented searchers.

This book seems to give an interesting perspective in human nature, including groupthink and the tendency of people to transfer intellectual knowledge into the illusion of personal experience.  It seems as if many birders who never saw an ivory-billed woodpecker have so closely studied the bird on paper and on tape that they have no doubts (or few doubts) when they (believe they) see a bird in the field that has long been presumed to be extinct.  It seems like a sort of mantra was embedded on the psyches of searchers that allowed them to visualize in birds in flight the characteristics they were looking for.  At least until the persistence of the species is documented irrefutably, that is the position I am left with after reading this book.

As an example, most of the alleged recent viewers of the ivory-bill emphasize the significant difference in size between the pileated and ivory-billed woodpeckers.  Yet, species expert Jerome Jackson has correctly noted that the difference in length between a pileated and an ivory-billed woodpecker is about the same as the difference in length between a yardstick and a one-meter measuring stick.  All reported recent views of ivory-bills have been relatively fleeting glimpses, often at distances of many yards, and it seems that the difference in size between pileated (common) woodpeckers and ivory-bills must not be nearly as significant as the viewers wanted to believe.  Were they operating on faith?   The same could be said about manner of flight between the two species, with it being possible to locate testimony from the late James Tanner that the two species could fly in a very similar manner to one another, and that one was not restricted to direct flight or to undulating flight.

All of this discussion in the book and the ready acceptance of it by the author leads me to have increased skepticism over the validity of the conclusions reached by the author and the Cornell team and all the associates and collaborators.  This skepticism means that additional proof is desperately needed.

Of course, Tim Gallagher knows and had long known about the degree of skepticism that has haunted previous claimants of viewing ivory-billed woodpeckers and is no doubt fully aware of the consequences of the problematic substantiation of his own claims and those of his colleagues and collaborators.  An interesting, recent dynamic of ivory-bill sightings is that appropriate skepticism seems to now be politically incorrect and "sightings" of ivory-bills are much more likely to be accepted now than ever before.  And this is not necessarily due to dishonesty of the claimants, but could be an artifact of human nature amongst knowledgable birders who know exactly what to look for and may subconsciously transfer that knowledge into the perception of what they actually see  in the field.  It is as if the whole dynamic of appropriate scientific skepticism of seeing an extinct species is backwards and upside down!  This further adds to the deliciousness of this controversy.

Most of the skeptics, myself included, hope with quiet desperation that the needed proof is obtained and is irrefutable. We want that species to live and we want to do everything in our power to enhance its ability to survive and to thrive, along with other species in that special habitat that has been so abused by human intrusion.

This is a very good book, with all the right components to make it easy to read and hard to put down.


Stan Moore    San Geronimo, CA  

