"If you don't take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher ... If you do take this note to the police, I will kill an elderly woman active in charity work ... The choice is yours." (The 1st note.)

Billy Wiles just wants to bar keep at a roadside tavern in Vineyard Hills, CA. And, of course, spend frequent evenings at the nursing home bedside of his fiancee Barbara, comatose these past four years after consuming a can of tainted vichyssoise. Billy doesn't have much of a life until he begins receiving mysterious notes that promise the slaughter of apparently random victims - promises that are always kept - by an elusive killer that, at one point, gets the drop on Wiles and nails one of his hands to the floor. To Billy's dismay, he's fallen down a rabbit hole into the world of a psycho who approaches murder as performance art.

I've read a smattering of Dean Koontz's novels, some of which have reached such a level of bizarreness that they lose appeal for me. I appreciate more subtlety. In any case, with VELOCITY, Koontz steps back from the edge just far enough to make this a mystery thriller that, while still frightening, is also plausible. I understand that THE HUSBAND is in much the same vein, but better; it waits, much anticipated, on my unread shelf even now.

I have two niggling complaints about this book's plot. I wish Ivy Elgin, a waitress at the tavern with an interest in haruspicy, i.e., divination of the future from dead animals, had gotten a larger share of text time. She is, perhaps, the most potentially interesting character present. Finally, at the story's conclusion, I felt that the killer knew more about Wiles than me the reader. True, one learns that, through no fault of his own, Billy is forced at age fourteen to shoot both his parents, and that, as an adult, he's written a book of short stories. Beyond that, he's a virtual cipher. Since putting the same characters in a sequel isn't the author's usual style to the extent I know it, I doubt we shall see either Billy or Ivy again, and that's unfortunate.

VELOCITY approaches being a couldn't-put-it-down read
