This book is a masterpiece of ski instruction and deserves to be appreciated on many levels.

At the simplest level, the book has drills, which, when practiced, will bring effective movements into your skiing. These movements give much greater control, with less effort.

For a more focused skier, cues are provided for self-coaching, to be sure you are performing the drills accurately. Review of video of your skiing, in slow motion, will  disclose any movements, like stemming, steering, and skidding, that are clues that execution of the movements could be improved. 

If you already ski well, but want to bump your performance up a few notches, then Harb's conceptual and technical explanations and diagrams can trigger an understanding of how even subtle movements can have a big impact. Each of the essentials has a significant interaction with the other essentials. Greater finesse in performing one essential will enhance the effectiveness of other movements. In its explanations of these reinforcing actions, the book demonstrates its greatest level of insight.

All of the above observations are based on serial readings of the book, dryland and on-snow practice of the drills, video analysis, and PMTS coaching. When the movements are done correctly, the skis just behave better!

Throughout the book, the writing is clear and the pictures and diagrams clarify the text. The included DVD complements the stop-action photos. 

If you are serious about improving your skiing, look no further for a book to aid your development. Some suggestions about how to get the most benefit: 

1.	read it through cover to cover to get a good understanding of the concepts
2.	practice the drills and pay careful attention to the cues that indicate whether you are performing the tasks correctly
3.	spend time repeating the drills until you can easily do them accurately
4.	verify your performance by analysis of your tracks, video, or a knowledgeable observer or coach, preferably Harb trained
5.	alternate between drills and free skiing, but pay attention while free skiing to be sure you incorporate the movement patterns from the drills
6.	consider participating in the PMTS on-line forum [...]

While still technically consistent with the Anyone Can be An Expert Skier volumes I and II, the style of presentation is very different and the explanations and diagrams approach the concepts from a different angle than the earlier books.. Those who have studied volumes I and II in detail will still find new material, like dryland and on-the-snow drills. In short, Essentials is completely complementary to Harb's earlier works.
