CHILD OF THE TIMES 

IF IT WERE ABOUT a conventional coming-of-age, Virginia Holman's memoir Rescuing Patty Hearst: Memories from a Decade Gone Mad (Simon & Schuster, $23) would be sensitive, poetical, evocative of the '70s epoch, and a first-rate rendering of a young life on the Virginia shore. Since it's about being raised by a clinically psychotic mother, the book is out of this world and halfway into another. "One year after Patty Hearst robbed Hibernia National Bank," Holman writes, "my mother lost her mind and kidnapped my sister and me to our family cottage in Kechotan, Virginia. Her reason was simple. My mother believed she had been inducted into a secret army. My mother, my baby sister, Emma, and I were foot soldiers entrusted with setting up a field hospital. We lived in that cottage for over three years." 

If Ireland hurt Yeats into poetry, the Kechotan cottage hurt Holman into autobiography. Her mother Molly's attempt to impose the narrative of her delusion on her daughter compelled the 8-year-old Holman to find her footing in the narratives of literature: first Nancy Drew mysteries, later Virginia Woolf. The bare facts are scary: Molly slipped in and out of delusion in a time when only overt physical violence could get you committed. Whenever she did something actionable (like feeding her child Clorox instead of milk), she'd snap out of it in time to feed her a raw egg to make her vomit, then retell the tale as one of her rescuing the child by quick maternal thinking. 

In the '70s, plenty of middle-class housewives were acting out like crazy, discovering themselves, doing odd things that didn't look so odd in the context of the upending of culture in general. Holman's book takes bitter note of the delusions of '70s social workers that her mother was sane; but mostly it just tells the incredible story of how she and her kid sister survived the madness of a parent and a decade. 

Even before she became a writer, Holman showed imagination. When her mother painted the windows black, she took a nail and etched in the Pleiades from her mythology book: "Sometimes at night, bright moonlight would filter through and there the sisters would be, glowing on the cement floor." Holman casts a stark light on her mother's mind and her nightmare childhood, but it's an artfully patterned light. This is literature, not just an Oprah show.

Tim Appelo 
