The BFG is a children's book written by Roald Dahl, who wrote such classics as Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, and James and the Giant Peach, and illustrated by Quentin Blake. The book was published in 1982 and immediately became popular amongst children and adults. The book won the Federation of Children's Book Groups Award in 1982 (UK), and was named one of the "best books of the past 20 years" by the UK's Good Book Guide in 1997.

The story is about an orphan girl named Sophie who, one night when she can't sleep, looks out her window to see a creepy looking giant blowing something into the windows where other children sleep. When the giant looks her right in the eye, Sophie jumps to her bed, and hides under her blanket only to be snatched by the giant and taken away to his home. It turns out that the scary giant is none other than the BFG, or the Big Friendly Giant, the only giant amongst the frightening human-eating giants who is a good giant, who satisfies his hunger on weird vegetables known as the snozzcumbers and drinks a delicious fizzy drink known as the frobscottle, which has bubbles that travel downwards that makes the drinker break wind instead of burp. The other giants are named The Fleshlumpeater, The Bonecruncher, The Manhugger, The Childchewer, The Meatdripper, The Gizzardgulper, The Maidmasher, The Bloodbottler, and The Butcher Boy. When Sophie asks the BFG about what he does at night, he reveals his secret of blowing bottled dreams, nice dreams, into the windows of children's bedrooms, something the other giants have no knowledge of.  When he catches a nightmare, he destroys it so that nobody will ever have to experience it. Sophie and the BFG become friends, and team up to rid the Giant Country and the world from the evil giants. So, the BFG mixes a dream showing what the giants do, which in turn becomes the worst nightmare the BFG had ever encountered, and takes it to Buckingham Palace and blows it into the Queen's bedroom, and leaves Sophie on the windowsill, for the dream includes the knowledge that she would be there when the Queen wakes up. When the Queen awakens after the frightful dream, she believes Sophie's story, speaks to the BFG, and works along with Sophie and the BFG to eliminate the child-eating giants.

The BFG is a character that the reader will automaticaly like. His unusual features, and nonsensical vocabulary, are both funny and very appealing to children as well as adults. Sophie is the young orphan girl who does an outstanding thing (saving the world from the evil giants), a theme that had been used by Dahl in other books like Matilda. 

The book was very easy to read, and extremely amusing. Dahl's style and imaginative BFG dialogue tends to make children laugh and attempt to imitate. The story may also give the children a sense of fear or suspense (the description of the evil giants and what they do). Of course, the best thing about The BFG is the theme of good versus evil. It also shows that not just because someone might look unusual or scary means that that someone or thing is evil. In other words, you can't judge others by what they look like or how they look, but you can judge them only by their actions; a very useful lesson of life for children.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Some elements in the book may be offensive to some ethnic readers (Greeks, Turks amongst others).

Recommended


