If you shy away from Victorian novels because you had to read A TALE OF TWO CITIES in high school, it is time to give these treasures another try.  Admit it, you are a bit older now.  So are these books by Dickens, Disraeli, Thackary, Austen, the Bronte sisters, and, yes, my personal favorite, the great man himself, Anthony Trollope.  

Why read something that was written a century and a half ago?  Because Trollope knew more about the human psyche than Freud and Jung put together, and wrote about it not with a clinician's jaundiced eye, but with incredible tenderness and love.  And entertainingly, to boot!

If you have been reading the Jan Karon novels about life in a small North Carolina highlands town, as it revolves around an Episcopal priest named Father Tim and his colorful parishioners, well!--this is where it all began.  A book version of finding the source of the Nile.  

Trollope began what Karon has revised and restyled so engagingly.  Trollope invented the "church and town" novel, with what have become known as his Bartchester Series of novels, all centering around the doings of a fictitious cathedral town and its outlying countryside.

Not the first in the series, (it is the fourth but perhaps the best), FRAMLEY PARSONAGE traces the faith, home and political lives of a number of intertwining families.  Here you will find love, ambition, political maneuvering, gambling debts, pretension, humility, envy, forgiveness, hate, romance.  If it sounds like a slice of modern life-it is.  We and the Victorians are so much alike; the human condition does not change.

In this delightful mix of clerical, political and romantic intrigue, you will meet everyone from the alarmingly meddlesome bishop's wife, Mrs. Proudie, to the original dizzy blond, Griselda Grantly.  All set in the green countryside and the bustling streets of London.

The story centers around the bright, popular pastor, Mark Robarts and his charming wife, but it is his sister, Lucy, who will capture your heart as perhaps the loveliest of heroines in any novel.

I hope you are intrigued enough to be convinced that there is more to Nineteenth Century British Literature than SILAS MARNER.  Moreover, I hope you will read this and the other Trollope works.  You may recall that in addition to being one of the most successful and acclaimed novelist of all times, Trollope was also a successful and acclaimed civil servant-his "day job" was with the British postal system-he invented the corner mailbox.  His more than 40 novels and outstanding autobiography were written in his very disciplined "spare time" in which he produced a specific number of pages every morning before departing punctually for his office.  Not only a genius of time management, Trollope was and is a guardian of the human heart.  

What?  You say you would rather start at the beginning of the Bartchester series?  By all means!  But if you do not, try FRAMLY PARSONAGE first.  Dip your toe in there-for you cannot dip your toe into any of his books without emerging the better, having done so.

If you find this review helpful you might want to read some of my other reviews, including those on subjects ranging from biography to architecture, as well as religion and fiction.
