There is no shortage of biographies and other studies on Abraham Lincoln, America's Sixteenth President, often ranked as America's greatest president. Richard Carwardine's book is not, as he states, a personal biography of Lincoln, but rather analyzes the forces both internal and external that shaped Lincoln into the leader he became and how he used those forces. Carwardine's book is a well conceived and very well written book on a truly remarkable man.

	The author looks at Lincoln's personal ambitions, his understanding of public opinion and the usefulness of party organization as some venues for understanding how Lincoln rose to the highest office in the land. We see Lincoln through the main points in his career from practicing law to becoming a state legislator, Congressman, and first Republican President in 1860, then reelected in 1864. We learn of Lincoln personal traits as well as the development of his political ideology.
	
	The author gives due attention to the times Lincoln played a part in as well, which is necessary in helping the reader understand the nature of American society in a politically divisive time, especially over the economic, political and social aspects of slavery. The issues brought forward with the Compromise of 1850, the Kansas-Nebraska Act, the popular sovereignty idea espoused by Stephen Douglas, and other highly charged political issues are discussed. But the real focus comes to center on Lincoln's attitudes and beliefs on these issues and his own grappling with the issue of slavery. Lincoln could gauge public opinion very keenly and was cautious to avoid being too 'out of the mainstream'. In short, Lincoln played the part of a very intelligent politician, but as Carwardine makes clear, he was genuine in the beliefs he reached.

	The formation of the Republican Party helped provide Lincoln with the organizational and structural support to advance his political ambitions, through party meetings and public speaking, Lincoln's name became more well known to the populace. Lincoln, ever the wise politician, worked hard to cultivate a broad base of support among former Whigs, Union Democrats, radical Republicans and the likes, not only during his campaign for president, but during his presidency. As the author also discusses, Lincoln appealed to evangelical Protestants through his belief in the necessity of Union and the principles espoused by Jefferson's Declaration of Independence.

	 Lincoln used the powers of the Presidency to preserve the Union and declare freedom for slaves, though in actuality that would happen gradually. His concern for maintaining the integrity of the Constitution did not prevent him from taking controversial measures on occasion, which as history has proven time and again, isn't unusual in times of war. Lincoln made enemies, but he also was viewed as a father figure to many who found comfort in his purposefulness during trying times. His leadership, without a doubt, helped steer the Union to victory. His death at the hands of an assassin, as the author states, perhaps even enhanced Lincoln's status in the memories of Americans as one of its greatest leaders..

	Carwardine's book offers many insightful glimpses into the man and how he gained and wielded power. Perhaps most original, at least to me, was the discussions of Lincoln's own religious views as well as the relationships he effectively cultivated with evangelical Protestants; sometimes it was hard to see where politics and religion separated. Lincoln was an exceptional man, though not perfect. It seems to be hard to find much fault with the man besides some of his political decisions. This book is a wonderful addition to the already profuse scholarship available on Lincoln.

	
