In Nine Parts of Desire the author brings us face to face with a range of Muslim women from various countries - Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Eritrea, etc. - and gives us vivid sketches of what life is like for these women.

Some of the women are educated (though what education means for a woman varies from place to place); others are barely literate.  Some work outside the home; others rarely leave.  Both married and unmarried women feature in the pages of this book - some from rural areas, others from large cities.  

What I chiefly liked about the book is that it doesn't shy from showing painful, vicious and puzzling things.  Nor does it try to conceal beauty or positive circumstances.  The portrait it paints of these women is not simple, but complex.  Take one woman whom the author got to know well.  She is from Iran, well-educated, who can readily discuss Persian poetry and her country's politics; she also calmly proclaims that Salman Rushdie should die and that Israel should be obliterated.  One woman is married, has kids, and wears a veil; yet her husband, rather than keep her home as is his prerogative, is rearranging his business so that she can travel abroad and complete post-graduate work.

More often than not, though, the women worry about whom they will marry.  What was often the most painful to read were sections about women trapped in stifling marriages.  Even when there wasn't physical abuse, there were limited or nonexistent personal choices (regarding work and travel outside the home, for example), opportunities denied, crushing housework, and pressure to have children, particularly male children.  For the vast majority of women in these societies, personal advancement and fulfillment depends on how understanding and progressive their husbands, fathers, brothers or other male relatives are; an opportunity - for work, study, travel - can usually only be available if a man chooses to permit access to it.

The author tries to make sense of what she sees, relating it to the Koran, and attempting to show how, in most cases, the strictest and most oppressive interpretations of the Muslim holy book are adopted, when there could be room for more openness, tolerance, and freedom for women.  She also tries to understand why some horrid practices, such as female genital mutilation, that existed prior to Islam were taken up so readily in some parts of the Islamic world.  Arguing that these practices were not originally Muslim does not mean that they can be ignored or that criticism is not warranted.

The book offers a very complex portrait of the Muslim women that it presents, and the contradictions within the societies in which they live.  Some of the women whole-heartedly defend their societies and support further adoption of fundamentalist religious rules; some try to rebel.  There are women who accept and won't go too far in changing the status quo in their lives...  yet they have their worries and private criticisms as well, or wish for things that they cannot, in the places they live, have.  It's eye-opening to read, and it's wonderful that the author chose to give voice to these various women and, through them, illustrate the societies in which they live.  It's also important to learn more about these societies, as more and more Muslims move to the western world; the author raises one example of a British trial case in which a man who murdered his wife got off on a lesser charge rather than premeditated murder, because the jury failed to understand that what he had committed was an honor killing rather than a spur-of-the-moment "crime of passion"
