Sydney Gibbes would have been unknown to all except his own family had he not taken the momentous step of going to Russia in the early 1900s.  There he sought out work as tutor to the children of various noble families, with indifferent results and gaining a reputation for behavior, which while not all that unusual for the times, definitely raised a few eyebrows (especially his insistence on whipping his students).  He strode into history in 1908 when Empress Alexandra Fedorovna needed a tutor to correct her daughters' accents and hired him sight unseen.  Gibbes remained with the family for the next ten years through war and revolution, teaching the four Grand Duchesses and then the hemophiliac Tsarevich.

Gibbes doesn't strike the reader as particularly admirable at first.  He was definitely a social-climber and not particularly talented as a teacher.  His private life was mysterious, involving some mild flirtations with an Englishwoman and some dreams (carefully recorded for posterity by Gibbes himself) which seem classically Freudian.  

Gibbes came into his own, and we find reason to respect and like him, with the Russian Revolution of March 1917.  As an Englishman he could have easily left Russia and gone home to safety.  Instead he chose to remain with the Imperial Family, sharing their captivity in their palace outside Petrograd and then in Tobolsk.  He underwent considerable hardship and personal danger, but he was selflessly devoted to the family.  Even after he was told to leave by the Bolsheviks who were holding the family in their final prison in Ekaterinburg he remained in the city, walking past the House of Special Purpose and trying to get in for visits.  After the family's murder, he assisted the investigators trying to determine what had happened.  

After leaving Russia Gibbes lived in China before returning to England.  He became an Orthodox priest, adopted a Russian orphan boy, and spent most of the rest of his life in Oxford, maintaining a museum of keepsakes of the family he had served for so long.  He was not particularly effective as a priest, but he was sadly missed and fondly remembered after his death, which is a pretty good epitaph for anyone. 

This biography makes use primarily of Gibbes'own notes and diary, so that the reader must look elsewhere for historical insight into his life, but nevertheless it does a nice job telling the story of a quiet, somewhat limited man who was a good servant and friend. 
