Anyone who has read "Don't Think of an Elephant" will know author George Lakoff knows about the power of imagery through words. He clearly illuminates the influence exerted by metaphors that resonate with the American public, in particular, the impermeable connection people make between family and nation and how images are divided along party lines. A professor of linguistics, Lakoff is a senior fellow of the Rockridge Institute, the renowned liberal think tank that concentrates in part on helping Democratic candidates and politicians with re-framing political metaphors. With his latest book, he goes even further in providing clear-eyed examples of the political arguments that have proven to work, the ones that appeal most deeply to personal values and moral structures.

As with "Elephant", he bases his principles on what he calls "deep frames", perceptual maps each of us have in order to make sense of the world. Anything spoken that is antithetical to one's "deep frames" simply do not resonate because phrases, no matter how well turned, have to reflect tangible deeds at the end. What Lakoff provides in his slim volume is a primer for the progressives who have given up the fight of words to the conservatives who had successfully used father-figure metaphors to convince the nation to go to war in Iraq. In fact, the most fascinating parts of the book have to do with the "war on terror" frame. The author brings to light how Republicans have framed the war as a just one because any other kind is beyond our cognitive process. Consequently, references to the "war" frame have constrained Democrats from initiating a withdrawal that would get us out of the war.

Repositioning "war" to an "occupation" frame minimizes the good-versus-evil symbolism in favor of questions that innately arise as to when to leave Iraq. Moreover, an "Occupation President" sounds more like a military commander disregarding the Constitution rather than a heroic figure out to eliminate global terrorism. Lakoff applies his framing devices to several other political debates, for instance, the use of the term "biconceptualism" rather than references to a moderate position since the former infers an inclusive way of thinking that balances polar perspectives, while the latter picks up on the compromising aspect of being in the middle. With the decisive Democratic victory in both houses earlier this month, the progressive community has an opportunity to gain a foothold through the reinforcement of such inclusive frames in their speeches. From that perspective, Lakoff's primer becomes indispensable
