The first book by James Scott Bell I read was &quot;Blind Justice&quot;. It was a fast-paced book that was heavy on action, and it held my attention. &quot;Deadlock&quot; was the second one I read, and it was a very different novel. While &quot;Blind Justice&quot; could be considered a legal thriller, &quot;Deadlock&quot; would have to be more of a character study. There's honestly not a lot of action here, nor is there a lot of courtroom action (one subplot deals with an abortion case, but it has the majority of court time in the book), but there is a lot of character growth. The change in Millie is believable and paced well, and I have to say doing it any differently would have been a little too &quot;fictionalized&quot; for my taste. I only have two complaints, one major and one minor. The only true down spot I didn't like was the ending. There was an undercurrent of unrest in the Supreme Court with her change, and she makes a decision and gets help for it...then changes her mind a few chapters later. We are set up for an awesome showdown, and then it never happens. I realize that it was making a statement about her character and belief in the court, but it still seemed to cheat us just a little. The only other minor complaint is that one of the characters is described as looking like Denzel Washington, and that just never sits well with me. I think the fun of a novel is deciding your own players for the parts in your head, and when an author goes ahead and tells us who's playing this character, it sort of robs the fun of it. It's sort of like he's saying &quot;I don't feel like describing this character, so here's who it is.&quot; I'm not saying that was Mr. Bell's intent, but it's a matter of personal preferences. Another novel I read did that for every single character (&quot;This guy looks like a young Harrison Ford,&quot; and &quot;She looked like Sharon Stone&quot;), and I haven't liked it since. Again, that's just a minor complaint and I didn't even take that into consideration while rating this book. Other than that, there's not a lot to complain about. The revealed identity of one of the characters caught me completely by surprise, and I have to give a thumbs-up for that one. It fit perfectly into the story, and it made another character's decision late in the book make sense. I'll definitely be picking up more of Mr. Bell's books in the future, and I recommend this one
