Girl in Hyacinth Blue proposes the existence of a 36th Vermeer painting among a professor's possesions.  Vermeer was a famous Dutch painter who lived in the 1600s, and he often painted girls with a simple description in the paintings' titles: "Girl with a Pearl Earring," for one.  "Girl in Hyacinth Blue" features a girl in a smock the color of the sky of Heaven.

The novel is composed of chapters that look like short stories (at least, that's how I interpreted it). It starts in the present and goes back in time, an interesting literary technique.  Cornelius, the professor, had obtained the painting from his German father, who rounded the painting up during a raid on a Jewish house during World War II.  The stories trace the painting's history back to Vermeer himself, and among the characters that the painting touches, there are resilient housewives, maturing young women, illegitimate babies, and the Vermeer family.  Especially in the beginning, the stories do not seem to have any meaning or any connections to the other stories, but some keen observations point out that yes, all the stories are linked together.

Some stories are better than others - I really liked this one: a family finds a baby and a painting in the river with a note ("Sell the painting"), but the housewife cannot bear to sell the lovely painting because in the dismal farm life, there has to be some beauty in it, too!  As the food supply dwindles, she struggles to part with the only beautiful thing she has for money. I could feel the anguish and the longing glances she had toward the painting in this short but lovely story/chapter.

The following story/chapter was also breathtaking.  The chapter demystifies the lingering question of where the baby came from and depicts a haunting love story that tragically ends in death.  Perhaps this is the chapter that gets me to love short stories again because I think this can stand by itself as one.

These two stories are what left me amazed, but the so-so quality of the other stories is what prevents my giving this book 5 stars.  The other stories were, in writing style, somewhat bland and lacked good transitions, and I saw that other reviewers took note, too.  Nevertheless, for a good book on tracing a lineage (here, a painting's), I do suggest this one, simply because of the two stories I found so enchanting in here
