Poor Vernon. Sort of a loner, sort of a loser, he stands accused of being an accomplice to the Columbine-style massacre of 16 of his fellow students, an act committed, it would seem, by a lone gunman who happened to be Vernon's best friend. What gives the accusation heft is the fact that Vernon Gregory Little does have a secret (or two) and he is indeed covering something up; it's just that every adult in the world is too dumb and too self-occupied to imagine that the easy explanation is rarely the correct one.

The strengths of "Vernon God Little" are twofold: spoof and plot. The satire is keen, although at times it loses its edge when it crosses the line into farce. (And the preening shenanigans of the neighborhood women cross over that line.) Pierre's targets are manifold--among them are cable news, reality shows, death penalty, white trash, and (above all) Texas. Even more satisfyingly, the various threads of the various mysteries not only are cleverly resolved, but they intensify the pointedness of the satire. 

But the problem with "Vernon God Little" is the problem with Vernon himself; I never once found him believable, not even as a Candide-like caricature. Written in the first person, the narrative sounds like no teenager I know; instead, the prose reads consistently like an adult's misrepresentation of the way adolescents talk. The author wants to have it both ways. Vernon scatters every other grammatically challenged sentence with an obscenity and a malapropism (he's in jail because they need a "skate-goat"; his fate is contingent upon a "powerdime" shift). At the same time, he is capable of summoning wisps of poetic (and occasionally purple) prose: "Somewhere in the composition of the air-conditioning is a licked-skin smell that brings a plague of fruity tangs to mind, damp edges of elastic crusted by sand and sea; salt lips pouting mask and vinegar." The result is a clunky, schizophrenic, and often exasperating pastiche.

That's not to say I didn't have fun reading the book, racing to find out what happens to Vernon in the end and revealing the sequence of surprising, unanticipated (but carefully planned) revelations. I only wish that Pierre had found a voice to match the vitality of his character and the shrewdness of his plot
