I've been reading about weight management programs for the past 4 years.  I love reading about the human body and better ways to "fuel" it.  So, I signed up for what I thought to be the best plan on the market, Weight Watchers.  They have that new "whole foods" plan.  As someone who eats salads everyday for lunch, I thought the plan was tough!  I couldn't stick with it.  I constantly had food cravings.  I gave up after 3 weeks and never used the rest of my "meeting" tickets.  What to do next.....    

At work, my co-worker looks great so I asked her what she does.  We were eating lunch at the Macaroni Grill and she ordered a huge bowl of wheat pasta with veggies.  It looked so good.  And, she grabbed a piece of the fresh bread on the table.  I asked how she could eat that and look so good.  She said she's been applying Suzanne Somer's weight management strategy.  I was like, "Really? What's that?".  She explained the basic guidelines of Food Combing.  It sounded simple enough.  So, I started reading about Food Combining on-line and the concept made sense.

The very next day I went to Barnes and Noble and bought a copy of this particular book.  She does have other books, but I thought this one gave the best explanation of the plan since I'm a new-be.  I've only been on this plan for a couple days, but I feel really good.  No more indigestion, no more feeling stuffed.  I feel great.  And the best part, I don't get hungry and there are no cravings.  Why?  Because I haven't really cut out anything, just rearrange when I eat it.  

Combining foods makes sense.  Different foods (carbs vs fats) need different enzymes in the body to digest them.  If they are eaten in groups, the body can effortlessly digest them.  And, if you're thinking it's not a healthy plan because she's not a doctor, you're wrong.  Since vegetables on this plan can be eaten with both carbs and fats, I find myself eating more veggies and fruits than I ever did before.  Even more exciting, this is not Atkins, so you are not eating fat all the time.  For example, a typical dinner could be grill salmon with two fresh veggies as sides.  I had that last night for dinner and it was delicious.  You will be getting your carb fix and feel completely satisfied at the same time.  I'm a cereal eater and had a bowl with milk a couple minutes ago.       

If you have any doubt, don't.  I'm serious.  The book is only $16 in the store, on Amazon probably less.  If you just follow the general guidelines you'll lose weight.  Yes, this plan may be "similar" to other plans, but she has streamlined it so you feel comfortable with your body and the idea of losing weight.  I guess it's all about presentation.  I'm actually excited about this plan.  I honestly feel like my search is over.  
 
