Cleo Coyle writes an entertaining, well developed mystery in Latte Trouble. I have long wanted to read one of her books and this one became the first. It will not be the last. Her style is easy to read and the storyline moves right along. She provides enough detail to set each scene, but doesn't get lost in minutia. It's also easy to see where the next story can take off from the end of this one.

Clare Cosi owns the Village Blend coffeehouse in downtown New York City. Throughout the book the reader is treated to glimpses of life in the Big Apple that add to the book's appeal. Clare's ex-husband, hunky Matteo (Matt) Allegro, is now partnered with her in the business. Matt's mother,  Blanche Dreyfus Allegro Dubois, more commonly known as Madame, has made this arrangement. In her heart she would like nothing better than to see her son and her former daughter-in-law get back together. She and Clare are fast friends. Matt's roving eye was part of the reason for the breakup and Clare is skiddish about any rekindling of the embers that still burn inside her. They have a daughter, Joy, who, while mentioned here and there in the book is not a major player. However, that may change in another "episode." 

On the evening of an important pre-Fashion Week event at the Village Blend, two men are poisoned. One of them dies. But was he the intended victim? Several people seem to think so. One of Clare's baristas, Tucker Burton, is arrested for murder as he and the man who died had a previous relationship and Tucker is royally p____-off at his ex-lover's recent treatment of him. Clare, who has gotten herself involved in solving mysteries before, latches onto this one to clear Tucker and get him out of Rikers. 

Meanwhile, Lottie Harmon is making a comeback after twenty-plus years away from the fashion world. Her "Spangles" jewelry was a hit in the early eighties. There's something different about her now, and her life between her disappearance from the scene and her recent return is shrouded in mystery. Clare is determined to find out who did the deed and why on the night of the event at the Village Blend, believing Lottie was the intended victim (since the poisoned latte was on its way to her when the a man whisked it off the tray, took a drink and then handed it to his companion). Before she figures it out, someone else dies.

This book is a good afternoon read and for coffee lovers and connoisseurs a real treat. There are several recipes from the Village Blend at the back of the book, including one for Clare's Foolproof Homemade Caramel-Chocolate Syrup. I'm not a connoisseur, but I do like a good cup of joe every now and then.

Coyle's next mystery: Murder Most Frothy (August 1, 2006) 

Carolyn Rowe Hill

