The author does point out many of the problems with humanitarian non-governmental organizations.  They do plenty of self-promotion.  They make deals with a variety of thugs just to be permitted to operate in some regions.  In other cases, they make deals with various nations, adopting their political causes.  Worst of all, they can be misused by those with truly genocidal plans: they can be assigned to give food and lodging to intended victims, drawing them into camps.  When armies show up to murder the victims, the humanitarians obviously get out of the way.  But just what service does all this provide?

While I found myself disagreeing with the author on plenty of occasions, I think he's written a good book.  He's clearly raised all the main issues with humanitarian aid.  These include questions of whether whether neutrality, impartiality, outright support for victims, or none of the above is the most effective way to help people.

In the case of a genuine human rights organization, there's no doubt what the goal is.  The charters of such organizations are clear: they never are to support outright opponents of human rights politically.  Those charters are often violated, but at least we all know what they are supposed to do.  But in the case of humanitarian organizations, there are no such goals.  The idea is to provide day-to-day help to the needy, and being misused by people who intend to murder the needy may not even violate their charters.

In any case, Rieff shows how humanitarian efforts failed in a most disheartening way in Bosnia and Rwanda.  And perhaps he's at his best when he explains how useless the United Nations has been in protecting anyone from aggressors.  He quotes one person as explaining that had the UN existed in the 1930s, all of Europe would now be speaking German.  

Rieff is pessimistic about the effectiveness of humanitarian aid in many areas.  And I have to agree with him about this.  Perhaps the worst aspect of it is that such failures, by giving humanitarianism a bad name, will encourage many people who truly want to help others to do something else instead. 
