Bruce Willis--I mean Max Holman--has had a contentious relationship with his son, and his chief memory of the boy is him running after the car, pounding his fists on the windows, swearing at his dead and telling him he never wants to see him again.  Max never married Donna, the boy's mother, and instead became the "hero bandit" when FBI agent Katherine Pollard arrested him for committing a string of penny ante bank robberies some ten years before the action starts in THE TWO MINUTE RULE.  Max is haunted by the failure of his relationship with Richie, who became a cop while his dad did time in jail.  But, when his release finally arrives Max is determined to mend fences with Richie, and so when he hears the news about Richie being gunned down, together with three other cops, in a remote section of the L.A. River, he is devastated by the missed chances in his life.

A model prisoner, Max now determines to become judge, jury and executioner for the so-and-so who murdered his son in cold blood.  But who was the killer?  That's what he has to find out.  So far, so good, but then the book bogs down with Crais' familiar plot of police corruption and the sticky red tape that entangles all of his heroes.  As many reviewers have noted, Max's turn to Katherine Pollard for assistance is so unlikely as to be preposterous, and Crais completely strikes out when characterizing Pollard.  Hard to believe he is the man responsible for some of the best episodes of CAGNEY AND LACEY because he sure isn't writing a woman law enforcement officer very well here.

Crais fans will be able to figure this one out about 100 pages in, but the ending will still have some twists and turns to surprise them.  But wait a second, did I miss something?  What was all that about Max secreting a contraband pistol in the janitorial closet of his seedy motel?  I felt sure that gun was going to come in later and help save his life.  Did it?  Or did Max--or Crais--just forget about it?

I also would have liked another chapter at the end that would tie up the loose ends in the friendship Max has with his oldest pal--the Benicio Del Toro guy in the book.  I'm like, what happened to editing
