It is human nature to question the unknown.  What happens to a person's spirit after he or she dies is unknown.  In this book, Swartz begins by sharing his thoughts about the afterlife, including his research on "the living soul" hypothesis.  From this hypothesis he begins to wonder if it were possible that a person's energy lived on would it not also be possible for living humans to communicate with the deceased.  Schwartz's curiosity leads him through a series of experiments which surprised him just as much as it may surprise an individual reading this book.  In The Afterlife Experiments, Schwartz attempts to scientifically conjecture as to the validity of an afterlife.  He does so by having mediums hold readings to contact spirits in controlled and scientific environments.

Schwartz understood the controversy his research would create.  He himself was skeptical.  In order to minimize criticism, Schwartz tried to make his experiments as scientific and controlled as possible.  He wanted to make sure that mediums were not using any trickery or deception.  As could be expected, at first there were some weaknesses in the experiments that could raise question as to their validity.  In However, throughout the research the conditions of the medium readings became more and more secure.  By the end of the experiments the mediums were doing readings with someone they had never met or been told about.  The medium wouldn't even see or hear these people's voices during the readings.  The accuracy during the "cold readings" would cause even a skeptic to question whether there was contact between the medium and a spirit.  

Schwartz was well aware of a sitter's bias when it came to the accuracy.  He knew that if a medium struck a sitter's emotions, the sitter would view that particular medium with almost perfect accuracy when that might not be the case.  In order to avoid this bias, he and his team put together a system of questions, which could be rated on a point system. Much to his surprise the accuracy of the mediums was very high and could not me explained by mere guessing.  

Despite the precautions, Schwartz worried that there may be trickery going on.  He called in skeptics, fake psychics, and magicians.  All agreed that there was no explanation for the accuracy and the surprisingly detailed readings.  No evidence could be found to invalidate any of the research or readings.  Therefore the Afterlife Experiments can be seen as a success.  

Even with the success of his research, Schwartz only considers himself to be a skeptical believer.  He believes more research needs to be completed before any conjectures can be made.  Still, this book holds highly intriguing research that would make even the biggest skeptic ponder if maybe there is some truth to this idea of an afterlife.  After all, in the experiments the conditions were controlled; methods of scoring accuracy were standardized; and no evidence showed signs of trickery or deception.  
