Anyone interested in psychics and spirituality will love this book (Talking to Heaven, A Medium's Message of Life after Death) by: James Van Praagh. Apart from the uplifting messages from the spirit world to their still embodied loved ones left behind, James speaks of all aspects of mediumship from clairvoyance to psychometry to clairsentience, clairaudience and seeing and reading aura's.  He also speaks of the 7 chakras which are the main energy fields that must be opened in order to develope your intuitive abilities or psychic powers. He also states that you must have the right attitude before endevoring to develope you intuition.  This attitude must be the desire to develope your psychic abibities for the betterment of mankind and not for fame and prosperity.  He also speaks of his childhood growing up as a Chatholic and how he realized that God is beyond any one religion or faith. He realized that God Is all there IS!  We all have that God Spark within us, therefore we are all one and the same in individual physcial bodies. It is for this reason that communication between our world and the astral world is possible. We never really die, we only change forms and return to the deminsion that is beyond duallity. Only our physcial world has duallity, and because of this we have physcial bodies and everything material. James also talks about reincarnation and karma.  Karma is what we gather from all past experiences from this life and others that must be transended.
The saying from the bible:(What ye sew, ye shall shirly reep), is the law of Karma. Again I can't emphasize how wonderful this book is for those who are interested in the Psychic world and in developing your spirituality. James Van Praagh is a warm and loving individual who I feel is doing a great service for our fellowman, helping them to heal after loosing their loved ones from this physcical world. And teaching us all how we should treat each other so that this world will be a better place in which to live. 
