Having recently finished John Grisham's The Testament, I'm wondering if the similarities in plots are a coincidence or if this is a typical characteristic in extremely wealthy families that makes great fodder for mystery writers all over the world. 

Both The Testament and Morning, Noon and Night focus on the death of the rich patriarch who seem like good guys, but in reality, are both cruel, heartless and self-centered egomaniacs. Although the death in The Testament was a suicide, the death of Harry Stanford in Morning, Noon and Night is either an accident or a murder. Sidney Sheldon leaves it up to the reader to try to figure out. He does give you the answer, which should surprise even the most die-hard armchair crime sleuth, but you have to wait until the very end to get those answers!

Both books showcase offspring who have had little to do with their father for most of their lives (except to pop in when they want something, especially large chunks of money). After the deaths of the fathers, the children are all overwrought with emotions and act like grieving, loving children, while wondering how much money they will inherit and plotting how they will spend it. Then you have them trying to cheat their siblings out of their imagined shares. Both Sheldon and Grisham seem to be painting a very ugly picture when this amount of money is involved.

Both Morning, Noon and Night and The Testament involve an illegitimate daughter who stands to inherit millions. The big difference is that in The Testament, she's an innocent player, while in Morning, Noon and Night, Julia may be a key factor in her father's death!

Unlike most of Sidney Sheldon's books, Morning, Noon and Night focuses on four siblings instead of one main character with a strong, clearly defined individuality. As the journey takes the reader through murder, revenge, blackmail, greed, hate, and miscellaneous other mayhem, it's difficult to put the book down, even for a few minutes.

Morning, Noon and Night is definitely a page-turner and you'll find it difficult to spread reading the book over a few days time - you'll want to finish it in one sitting! Sidney Sheldon doesn't let us down with the ending, as it's unexpected and unanticipated. 

Morning, Noon and Night is one of my favorite novels by Sidney Sheldon. If you've never read one of his books, I'd recommend starting with this one or Master of the Game.
