This book is meant for a variety of readers:  writers (beware), legal eagles (what is the difference between plagiarism and copyright infringement?), students (don't copy that Wikipedia article), professors (be careful about your student's research), etc.  It is brief and to the point, yet raises several interesting questions.  Do we most value originality or creativity?  Posner defines the difference, although some readers may disagree with a a few bits here and there.

According to Posner, the concept of plagiarism as a bad thing is a fairly recent attitude.  Shakespeare and others in the past -- from the Egyptians to the writers of the Bible -- have copied earlier works, improved on them or not, expanding the ideas and the discussion.  

One concept is missing from the present discussion, however, that of "work for hire."  For instance, writers are often paid to write works, fiction in particular, in a specific milieu, often under another name, without receiving public credit for that work.  This may include students who do the research for a scholarly book that the professor writes (but I would not think the same holds true if the student does the actual writing and credit should be given, of course).  Posner also states that plagiarism is more of a problem for students than professors.  Given the "publish or perish" mentality of universities in hiring and granting tenure to professors, it would seem that plagiarism could become more and more of a temptation.

Beginning with the young "chick lit" author whose work was full of copied sections, working through scholarly writers, many instances of being caught are cited.  Posner, like the news media, places greater emphasis on the fiction rather than the scholarly.  The young Harvard student was virtually pilloried in the press.  The only plagiarism in scholarly work that came close to being so condemned, was that of Stephen Ambrose.  Most professors caught plagiarizing are forgiven by their institutions and, it would seem, the public.

It is important to consider this problem especially in light of the new software being used by universities that can identify plagiarism, access to virtually any written work via the Internet, and the ability for the news media and others to identify stolen work.  There are some who espouse the idea that all creative work should be "open source."  The possibilities are numerous
