The Spanish Main in the 1600's was a hot bed for European colonial rivalry. Places would shift ownership constantly as France, England, and the Netherlands fought to pry dominance away from Spain. Displaced French colonists sought a rural livelihood in Hispaniola (now Haiti and Dominican Republic) then nearby Tortuga (a part of modern Haiti). Living by hunting wild cattle, they sold the hides to the Dutch. These hinterland dwellers had a way of smoke-drying beef that they learned from Carib-Indians who survived Spanish extermination. They would smoke the meat on wooden frames so that it could be used in the future. The wooden frames were called "boucans", hence the practitioners of the craft were called "Boucaniers". The Spaniards resented the presence of the foreigners, and made efforts to drive them out. The harassed Frenchmen were joined by other French and English islanders who coalesced to thwart this threat and became known to history as "Buccaneers".

"The Buccaneers of America" narrates the unique and sordid life these men lived in an age and land of lawlessness and savagery. The author, said to be a Frenchman who retired to Holland after residing in the Caribbean because of religious turmoil in France, writes of his initial employ with the French West India Company. As was the custom of the time, indentured servants could be sold by their employers and the luckless author, being one, found himself at the mercy of masters with varying degrees of humanity. Eventually finding himself free after his contract ended and left with nothing but what he wore, he decided to join the Buccaneers. And the beginning of his tale unfolded. He chronicles the lifestyle of these men and how they winded up in their profession. He describes their constant battles with the Spanish, their excellent marksmanship and unsullied bravery, becoming some of the best unoffical soldiers of the time. He vividly recounts the story of Jean-David Nau, better known as the dreaded L'Ollonais, perhaps the most brutal individual Pirate in history. He narrates in gruesome detail the infernal nature of this creature as he coerces men to follow his trail of blood and conquest, highlighting to the infamous scene where he hacks a prisoner's chest and snatches the still beating heart and gnaws it in front of horrified captives and crewmen. Exquemelin devoted the second half of the work to Henry Morgan, the most successful buccaneer in history and one of the most ruthless and audacious commanders of all time. With modest numbers of men he sacked prominent cities against larger bodies of men with better arms, culminating in the sack of Panama. He depicts in grisly detail the cruelty of the buccaneers and their loose and democratic way of life. There is a strong bias against the Spaniards, and this may affect his text somewhat, but considering the well-known brutality of the former, his issues may be understood. He also gives a fascinating picture of everyday Caribbean life in the 17th-Century, describing in detail life in the tropics: the land, animals, and natives are all given a clear-eyed view by the observant and scrutinizing adventurer.

Written in Dutch and published in 1678 as "De Americaensche Zee-Rovers", the book was a bestseller in it's time and reprinted in major European languages, introducing the continent to the immoral backward vagabondage the book's subjects led. The only primary work to depict this period in world history, Exquemelin's seminal tome is an invaluable and remarkable account of a peek into the Western world's more barbarous and less civil past
