Of all works of fiction, this book certainly gives the most indepth account of the fascinating and tragic Queen of Egypt.


The author has clearly done extensive research and aquits this research well, in an entertaining and exteremly informative way.
Not only does she have an impressive array of books and documents that she studied before embarking on this work, but she travelled to Egypt, Rome, Israel and Jordan, and spent four years working on this epic.

The author explains that her sympathy is with Cleopatra, and that much of the documentation of her story, was compiled at the behest of her arch-foe Octavian, and that some of her enemies included writers and poets such as Cicero, Vergil, Horace, which assured that her version of events would be silenced and the accounts would be skewed against her.
The author explains that the popular modern idea that Cleopatra was unattractive is incorrect, and that the way that coins and statues were done in those days would have made her look less attractive certainly.

The author gives a credible explanation of the death of her second brother Ptolemy, from comsumption,and the truth is we do not know how he died, and there is no conclusive evidence that she did indeed have him murdered.
The book is not only a window into the lives of Cleopatra, Julius Ceasar, Mark Antony and Octavian, but also a portrait of the world of the time, taking us from Egypt to Nubia, Rome, Syria, Anatolia Judea, Armenia and Pathia.

George fills in with an amazing cast of Cleoptra's retinue, such as her chamberlain,the eunuch Mardian, her physician Olympos, and her brilliant Hebrew finance minister, Epaphroditus. The book begins with a fictional account of the rescue of the three year old Cleopatra from a sea accident  in which her mother is drowned, Cleopatra's growing up in the Egyptian royal court of Alexandria, the schemes of her sisters Cleopatra and Berenice, the death of her father, the arrival of Julius Ceasar  and the incident of her being smuggled to him in a rug, the battles with her siblings, the first Ptolemy and Arsinoe, her romances with Julius Ceasar and then Antony ,and the tragic and ill-fated defeat of Cleopatra and Antony, by the ruthless and scheming Octavian, which could so easily have gone the other way.
One finds oneselves biting ones nails at the end of the book, dealing with Cleopatra's cartivity and her suicide.
A compelling novel, which I read in a week.

Filled with brilliant diaologue and description.

