What sets this guide apart from the pack? The reviews are the reason. If you're not the type that needs some sort of rating system, such as stars, you should consider this guide. I recently replaced an ageing Maltin guide with this one -- I examined quite a number of guides before settling on the Time Out. Although Halliwell's is not bad, they sacrifice review space to lists of blurbs. The Time Out Guide provides the essential info, such as major credits and running time, and then you get a review that summarizes the plot and then provides criticism. Review lengths are based on the film's importance, so some reviews may be twice or even three times as long as others. The 10,000+ films that other guides will include won't be here for the simple reason that they are most likely not worth placing in a general film guide. So if you must have that sort of completeness, I would augment this guide with another (take your pick). Some reviewers think that this guide is snobbish -- well, no. It is clearly written by people who know film, and a glowing endorsement only accompanies a film that is well directed, written, photographed, and acted. They strive to point out each film's strong or weak points along those criteria; they may not always be successful, but they have hundreds of contributors. Others have found this guide Anglocentric; I have not, although I do believe it is much more complete than most guides in its inclusion of British film. Whether you agree with their assessment of a film or not, they are generally not far off the mark, and I would contend that most opinions they venture are the stuff of a lively discussion of film.  All in all, a job well done. I reserve the fifth star to the guide that could outdo this one, once it is available. I could grouse about their unkind review of &quot;Arsenic and Old Lace&quot;, or their overkind review of &quot;The English Patient&quot;, but this is the sort of thing that comes with the turf. By the way, the print is tiny, so be forewarned
