

With so many fine novels written during the past decade about the Indian emigrant experience, is there anything new to say on the topic?  Hari Kunzru's picaresque tale of an Anglo-Indian boy answers, resoundingly, yes.

Pran Nath is the fruit of an improbable union between an Indian girl and a soldier of the British Empire who are literally thrown together during a flash flood.  The soldier dies, and the girl travels onward to Agra and her arranged marriage.  There she convinces her unworldly husband that the child in her swelling belly is his own.  Pran's mother dies giving birth, and her unsuspecting husband raises Pran as his prized son and heir.  Pran's life as a spoiled, upper class youth comes to an abrupt end when he's betrayed by a servant who knows the true tale of his patrimony.  

Tossed into the streets, Pran suffers the usual depredations visited upon defenseless urchins.  After some months as a captive child prostitute, he's sold out of a brothel into the service of a minor maharajah.  Pran's new job is to seduce a British colonial administrator with a taste for young boys so the maharajah can blackmail him.  The political and erotic byplay builds to a hilarious climax involving magic potions, drugged tigers, and miscegenation.

The inclusion of "child prostitute" and "hilarious" in the description above hints at the story's accomplishments and limitations.  We're captivated by Pran's adventures, but he's more comic book hero than fully fleshed out character.  Suspend disbelief, and you'll enjoy the ride.  Look elsewhere for more literal emotional truths.

Pran escapes to Bombay, where he's given bed and board by Scottish missionaries.  While the colonial edifice in India starts to shudder and crack, Pran shuttles between high minded Protestantism and the brothels of Falkland Road, where he makes a skimpy living as an errand boy and low level pimp.  He also takes tentative steps to pass himself off as an Englishman, using his light skin as the ticket out of his Indian self.  One evening, Pran serves as night guide to a drunken English youth, raised in India but now orphaned and returning to England.  When the English boy gets murdered during a political riot, Pran takes his clothes and his identity and sets sail for the land of his father.

Passing as Jonathan Bridgeman, Pran is provided with a comfortable inheritance and sent first to a boarding school, then to Oxford.  Pran becomes an actor and an aesthete, but his real course of study is English customs and manners, which he mimics and dissects in order to discover the wellsprings of British imperial power.  While at Oxford, he begins a romance with Astarte Chapel, the daughter of a famous anthropologist.  Astarte is the peaches and cream essence of Anglo-Saxon girlhood, and the smitten Pran feels he's sailing toward the very fountainhead of Englishness.  But then he discovers that Astarte's tastes run darker and wilder than the prim and proper Englishman Pran's worked so hard to become.

Pran flees to Africa with Astarte's father to study a remote jungle tribe.  After an arduous upriver journey, the expedition finds that the long arm of empire has been here before them and upended the tribe's culture.  Now truly in the heart of darkness, Pran has to come to terms with the deteriorating situation in the bush and his own wobbly sense of who he really is.

The Impressionist is a remarkably assured first novel.  It's a sensual book, not because of the too numerous sexual escapades, but in the rich descriptions of clothes, palaces, brothels and city streets and in the striking and humorous oddities of British and Indian culture seen through Pran's boyish eyes.  Echoes of great English writers such as Waugh, Forster, Dickens, and Conrad give the book texture.  All the Big Ideas about race, class and identity evolve naturally out of the story.  This is a wise, funny, and inventive novel.  We can only hope the multi-talented Kunzru will continue working in this particular medium.


