I love reading Tom Peters. I plop the covers shut, and jump up feeling pumped, filled with ideas and bubbling over with enthusiasm. Unfortunately, on Monday, I still have to face the work-a-day world.

This book was no different. Indeed, it is one of his best. I love his ideas about decentralization and finding talent in everything work endeavor (Michelangelo's of housekeeping? Props, says the author). Building WOW! projects (any project can be WOW! if we let it), and resume-ing those projects to manage your career as a Professional Service provider. In short, how to brand yourself, how to grow that brand value, and ultimately leverage your talents through that brand.

This book, however, does not stop at the personal Buzz level. It touches on corporate restructuring to flatter, faster entities ... and the fact that the "nerds have won!" Peters points out that grey matter is becoming increasingly more important than lumpy things. For example, examine Nike, Microsoft and Oracle versus Ford. One sells stuff, the others sell ideas. Those industries highest in grey-matter consistently show the highest ROE.

I love this book, though not directly applicable like most excellent business books. In fact, I would caution anyone wanting to manage from Peters' un-tempered ideas. 

For example, Peters lauds Nike throughout this book. But, check out how poorly Nike faired in the late 90's, early 2000's. Consumers, unawares to the company's executives, changed fashion trends away from white leather sport shoes and towards causal, brown natural leather shoes. At the same time, the company's lumbering supply chain made its core accounts (the sporting goods stores) very unhappy as they faced constant stock outages. And, when you add the public fervor over its sweat-shops in Asia, well ... Sometimes, it pays to be sober to temper over-exuberance. "A cup of decaf, please."

Everything aside, Peters is one-in-a-million. He continuously points me to the future, and gets my juices flowing. Sort of like a Michelangelo of biz-speak: the reigning king of biz-Chaos. 
