but I did not really enjoy it.  I understand why it is a classic:  Miss Bronte delves into the depths of the human psyche and recounts the agonies of lost love and the despair and cruelty it drives Heathcliff to.  She describes the deep bond of love between Cathy and Heathcliff, a bond which is stronger than death and causes as much pain as it does pleasure, and as much agony as comfort.  What I cannot understand is how people actually enjoy reading it.  I do not mind a lack of action in a book:  Pride and Prejudice is one of my favorites and contains far less action than this book.  However, Pride and Prejudice was a pleasant read because it had pleasant overtones and a pleasant ending and pleasant characters.  This book, however, has nasty overtones, an ending barely passable as neutral, and nasty characters.  Most of the main characters were self-centered fiends:  Cathy loved her friend more than her husband and made it known to all, Joesph was a foul hypocrite, Linton was a wretched weakling, Hindley a abusive father, Heathcliff an evil fiend, etc.  The story itself was an awful tale of lost love leading to a collapse of characer and it's resulting consequences (all bad) on the people in contact with Heathcliff.  Why people celebrate this of all love stories is beyond me.  Why on earth would people hold up as an example of true love the story of Cathy and Heathcliff?  A story which runs as follows:  Cathy and Heathcliff are in love.  Cathy marries someone else because Heathcliff has a low rank.  Heathcliff causes jealousy for Cathy's husband.  Cathy dies, and Heathcliff nearly goes insane and spends the rest of his life mercilessly torturing those around him.  Someone explain to me why this is held up as a great example of love?  Give me Miss Bronte's sister (Charlotte Bronte)'s Jane Eyre any day over this.  Jane Eyre is just such a story as should be held up and shown to the world as an example of true love, not Wuthering Heights.  Wuthering Heights is an example of love gone horribly wrong, not perfect love.  I do not think that it was the author's intent at all to have this lifted up as an example of what love should be like, as many have mistaken her to have done.  She was simply showing the power of love:  that it has both the power to do both great good and great evil.  That is the strength of this book.

Overall grade: 
