Maria Rosa Menocal opens our eyes to the rich and diverse cultures that made up what she describes as the "first class" culture of Al-Andalus in its days of glory as perhaps the most developed culture of the world in its day. The book is particularly interesting from the perspective of the level of success that tolerance achieved in a difficult age, as the subtitle suggests: How Muslims, Jews, and Christians Created a Culture of Tolerance in Medieval Spain. Far from perfect but better than most, this story of diversity management challenges much of what we learned in school both about the events of the time and about the role of "the others." 
Cuban-born Menocal is a specialist in medieval culture and literature who now teaches at Yale. Her range of expertise shows in the delicate and complete treatment she gives to this historical review of a golden age. Yes, there is inevitably the military and political history that frames the narrative, but the author enriches us with the art, architecture and poetry of the people who made up the cultural constellation of the territories of Cordoba, Seville, Toledo and Granada. In one of my favorite lines of the book she speaks of the Caliph of Cordoba as, "Abd al-Rahman shared with his Arab ancestors an unembarrassed and manly love of poetry." Arabic language and Arabic books--an unbelievable estimate of there being 600,000 of them in the library of Cordoba alone--seemed to be the i-pod equivalent of with-it-ness for the young scholars and career seekers of the time, Jew and Christian as well as Muslim. 
From Berber incursions to Muhammad XII's handing over of the keys to Granada to Ferdinand and Isabella (dressed in Muslim finery, we are told) in 1492, the rise and fall of this spectacular culture, is nicely documented and understandable. Notwithstanding, the author adds reflections on the diversity and identity issues that continue through Cervantes, Salman Rushdie and 9/11 that are thought provoking and challenge our understanding of what the dynamics of intergroup conflict are as well as what tolerance and integration can be even when neighbors hold certain non-negotiable values.
Menocal writes well and, indeed, in a rather pedestrian form, rather than indulging in scholarly embellishment. This makes the book an easy read for ESL users as well as those of us who want to relax and enjoy imbibing our history. I found her repeated use of the word "polity" a bit annoying. It is a short and technically correct but uncommon term that, according to my Wikipedia browse, "is often used to describe a loosely organized society such as a tribe or community, but can mean any political group including a government or empire, corporation or academy." She applies it to the cities, religious bodies and states of Al-Andalus.
A must read for those who are planning their visit to the 2008  SIETAR Global Conference in Granada, Spain in October 2008.
