Finder, as so many other reviewers here have said, is a very very good writer of mystery thrillers. Paranoia was a unique story of corporate greed that set out in several new directions. Company Man continues Finders amazing prowess in concocting wholly new and engrossing plot lines. I can't stress enough how refreshing it is to come across an author with Finders desire to create a story that has never before been told. If you read enough mystery/thrillers, you will start to see that most authors mimic each other and the same structures come forth again and again. Not here, not with Finder. 

Two things I noticed right off. One is that Finders prose style is remarkably similar to that of Harlan Coben. Coben is one of the bright shining stars of this genre currently and worth checking out if you haven't read him. However, Coben is a very cheerful including author who draws you in and sets up a very comfortable environment for his reader. Sort of like the best of Hitchcock as in 'the Man Who Knew too Much' or 'Vertigo.' Though Finder has an eerily similar approach to his sentence structure and dialog, he has a totally different mood that permeates this story. The stories that Finder tells are dark and brooding, getting started on them and continuing them to the end are sometimes difficult. Its hard to put a finger exactly on what I am trying to get across here, but what comes to mind is that of a horror film where the girl is walking into some stupid situation and you are yelling at her to run. This only lasts a few minutes at most in the movie, but it lasts for most of the story when it comes to Finder and this leads to a very exhaustive reading experience.

I wont go too much into the story. Others have done so very nicely here. I just wanted to say why this is such a great read. Especially if you are a mystery/thriller fanatic like myself and are constantly searching for new authors worth picking up. Finder is not easy to read like Lee Child or Patterson. Finders writing is not welcoming and humerus like Hiasson or Parker. In many ways Finder stands with some of the more obscure authors that have written very hard hitting stories such as Edward Bunker or Vachess, only Finder here has turned that hard hitting style on its head and brought it into a mainstream template and then twisted them together for a very satisfying finished series of books.

Read And Enjoy..
