     All books have their own flavor. However, The Dark Horse is one in a million. The Dark Horse is written by Marcus Sedgwick. The whole book is written in a series of short chapters, each switching time frames from the present to flashbacks. This book is filled with sudden and mysterious jinks, terrifying events that will leave you trembling and action that will leave your heart pounding. The Dark Horse will reach historical fiction fans in a way that can only be done by a good book. Other books by Marcus Sedgwick include Christmas Wish, Floodland, and Witch Hall.
	As Sigurd and Mouse, Sigurd's foster sister, gather food for their seaside Native American village, Storn, they discover a box that washed up on shore and appears to be empty. All of the while, Sigurd has flashbacks of how Mouse came to Storn. At first, she was more like a wolf but learned to be a human. Although, she still has her special ability to talk and connect with animals. Meanwhile, a strange man named Ragnald appears to seize the box. He later kills Horn, the chief, and Sigurd's father out of cold blood. Of course, Sigurd wanted revenge and got it six seconds afterward. Through a complicated chain of tradition and law, Sigurd becomes the chief of Storn as the threat of an attack from The Dark Horse arises. Omens appear, and the legendary Dark Horse attack. Many of Storn are killed, and the survivors scatter. During a sickening twist of events, Sigurd discovers a heart-wrenching secret about Mouse and her sudden betrayal.
	The Dark Horse is so compelling because it is shrouded in mystery. It is filled with enigmas. In fact, it even begins with a mystery when Sigurd and Mouse find the supposedly empty box. Also, as the story went on, many references to The Dark Horse are made. The Dark Horse is a frightening mystery just to know who or what they are. Mouse, however, is another mystery. She was found in a cave full of wolves, yet does not remember how she got there. A veil of mystery clouds around her. All of the questions left unanswered until the last moment makes The Dark Horse a real page turner.
	Mouse, even with her silent nature, can do things that many can barely imagine. She can talk to animals and see what they see. As I was reading, I occasionally found that I had a burning jealousy over what Mouse could do. Although, the description and the detail made me feel as if I had her powers too. For instance, when Mouse first joined Storn, she was found sleeping with the dogs. The villagers laughed at her and questioned her actions. She replied that the dogs were sad ever since the oldest dog had died. Then she asked "Don't they talk to you?" She had also used a hawk to find fish when the fishing was very poor. Finally, when Sigurd ran away, Mouse used a bird in an attempt to locate him. 
	This book receives a four-star out of five rating from me. It has a few too many mysteries and cliff-hangers. Even so, reading The Dark Horse was like being a part of history. This book takes love, hate, secrets, betrayal, and ancient magic and wraps it up in one neat little package. Anyone who loves suspense should read The Dark Horse to complete their life. 
