Having chewed and digested "Around the World in Eighty Days", "Five Weeks in a Balloon" and "Journey to the Centre of the Earth", I set out to devour another chef d'oeuvre of Verne [the often overlooked "true" father of science fiction] with much relish. Sure, "20,000 Leagues" seemed bigger than the others I'd read, but I thought it would be the classic excitement and drama of Verne all the way. Well, I was nearly right.

Professor Arronax leaves a "normal" life in France for the US, taking his assistant with him, to investigate the matter that has taken all the attention of the "modern" or "known" world. Joined by the egotistic harpooner, Ned Land, they seek adventure, and they find it.

Again, I see Verne's classic touch of the dramatic as the threesome find the monster - the Nautilus - or rather, as the Nautilus finds them. They awaken to an interminable adventure under the sea. The Professor is fascinated, or perhaps, intoxicated with the endless wealth of life in the sea and spends hours, days and months observing and recording. The tireless taxonomist takes in all the eye can see and with the help of his assistant, classifies it all. This is where the tedium began for me as the reader. Pages upon pages of pure taxonomy. 

The accounts of the undersea explorations in specially designed suits offers some relief. The enigmatic Captain Nemo is in charge; incidents and never accidents. Everything about him is shrouded in mystery - pondering on the life of Captain Nemo offers some useful distraction and provides the fuel to consume more and more pages.

However, you can never miss Verne's climactic scenes, where he brings drama and suspense to their peak. The almighty Nautilus is trapped inside a huge mass of ice at the South Pole, and for the first time, Captain Nemo shows signs of worry, however subtle. Yet, he goes on with a steely determination. Things are looking very desperate, but as usual, the day is saved. However, I found myself following every detail, sharing all their fears, their toil, their despair. Their ecstasy was mine when the Nautilus broke free. I was totally drawn in...

...The irritable Ned Land sparks the fire of escape. He's sick and tired of submarine life as Nemo shows no signs of releasing his charges. The adventure ends with the escape of the threesome back to terra firma, or does it? I guess it continued with Captain Nemo and his longsuffering crew until his death, burying years of useful knowledge and resources under the sea. Or did he live forever?

A highly challenging but rewarding read for the discerning reader or Verne fanatic
