Seven years after one of the most notorious murder trials of the 20th century, Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were executed on August 23, 1927. Their execution came as a blow to the supporters who had failed to gain a retrial. Following the executions, several people who believed in the innocence of Sacco and Vanzetti worked together to produce a book of the letters they had written during seven years of imprisonment. "The Letters of Sacco and Vanzetti" was first published in 1928, and the book immediately came under criticism. 

Some critics claimed that the letters were fake or highly doctored, and indeed prior to publication, there was some debate between the editors regarding just how much should be altered to correct spelling, which letters to include etc. Published comments denouncing the book even resulted in a libel suit against the New York Herald Tribune. The book's introduction carefully details public and institutional opinion in the aftermath of the execution and the publication of the dead men's letters. Appendices in the book include: the background of the case, speeches to the court, Vanzetti's letter to Governor Fuller, Vanzetti's last statement, and an index.

As for the letters themselves, there are substantially more letters from Vanzetti than from Sacco. The two men--both Italian immigrants and both anarchists--came from vastly different backgrounds. At the time of Sacco's arrest, he was a shoemaker, but had no formal education. The letters he wrote over his seven-year imprisonment show a marked improvement in his English. The first few letters are very simple, but quite difficult to understand. Over time, the letters became more complex and revealed Sacco's love of nature. When Vanzetti was arrested, he was working as a fresh fish seller. He was a well-educated man, and his education is reflected in his letters--they are more political in nature--with many references to the Bolsheviks, Socialism, and the Russian Revolution. 

The collection of letters is a dry read, and the letters are better absorbed in smaller doses. Neither man was interested in compromising his political beliefs in order to win approval from the American public or the justice system. Vanzetti's letters, in particular, reveal an extremely interesting individual. He spent a great deal of his free time translating a book from Italian into English, and regretted the loss of his books more than anything else. "The Letters of Sacco and Vanzetti" presents a good overview of the case with a mini-biography of both men, and it's clear to the reader that every single aspect of this case was fraught with controversy and prejudice. For anyone interested in the case, I also recommend the film, "Sacco and Vanzetti." It's not easy to find a copy, but it's well worth searching for--displacedhuman
