The problem with political thrillers is that they often become clliche and predictable.  There is often a desire, either by the author or the industry, to paint these as modern westerns with well-defined good guys and bad guys.  Rarely do we get a novel of more disturbing complexity which challenges our notions of morality and suggest a social structure which lead to corruption of values and moral virtue.  Only the best take this opportunity for developing a sense of noir, protraying the darkness of human ambition and petty venal sins, that is often missed.  John Le Carre is a notable exception who has remained dedicated to his genre.  Rarely do novels produces the types of characters that strive to overcome those structures or achieve some victory, or reach a pivitol moment of epiphany.  Such greats include Conrad's The Secret Agent, or Greene's Quiet American.  To these one should add Stone's A Flag for Sunrise.  There is genre fiction, and there is fiction that transcends genre and which stands distinctive as a work of literature.  This definitely falls in the later category. 

A Flag for Sunrise brings us back to the 1970s and 1980s, where America is fighting a war against communism along it's southern periphery, the backyard of Central America.  It is a period often forgotten or glossed over by modern Americans who think of this period as that time when Reagan won his war against Communism.  Stone brings us back and cuts out a small story within a bigger story- of a pair of missionaries holding out on a small beach in some fictional South American country, as the world around them falls to the chaos of revolution and a coming apocalypse.

One of Stone's strengths is capturing the sense of hollowness of the Post Vietnam Era.  This is a time of pessimism, when the potential for evil in foreign policy is very apparent, and where Americans are suffering an identity crisis about their place in the world.  This is a powerful theme in Stone's work, seen espeically in The Dog Soldiers, but here it is especially powerful.

This is a thriller with a powerful set of characters: disillusioned American vets from the Vietnam War, an idealistic nun, well intentioned journalists, manipulative revolutionaries, despotic policemen, aging pirates and smugglers, political manipulators, spies and hired guns. These people collide with intense drama and tragedy.  At the heart of the story are three characters, a disillusioned veteran of Vietnam, the idealistic nun and a military deserter whose vacuous nature becomes a cause of destruction.   They remind us that in the turbulence of political change, individuals exist and struggle to survive in these tidal forces.  There is a horror here, of structure and character, of vice and ambition, and of the dark side of the human heart and perhaps those aspects of our humanity that finally may redeem us.  What is achieved is a work of art that stands far and above most political fiction you will likely read in a long time.

Highly recommended. This is another story which begs Americans to reconsider the price of empire and one of the landmarks of 20th Century Literature.  Dog Soldiers has often been criticially acclaimed, but a Flag for Sunrise is probably Stone's best.

  


