There are two striking qualities to be found in Monica Ali's debut novel. First, although the book's pace is measured and at times even slow, I never found it boring. The second feat is that all her characters are far from perfect, and their actions are often blameworthy, but--with the exception of a a nosy and malevolent neighbor, who figures late in the plot--they are nevertheless endearing. It's rare to find a writer who strikes such a delicate balance between the ordinariness and the uniqueness of the lives of everyday people.

The heroine, Nazneen, is far from a saint, and she could even be called simple (both deferential to her husband and meek in her expectations), but she commands the sympathies of her husband, her neighbors, and the reader. She comes to England from Bangladesh, to enter into an arranged marriage and raise two children and to live as a stranger in her both her new country and the neighborhood around Brick Lane. The bubble in which she lives bursts when her children become teenagers and when Nazneen begins an affair with a young activist. Gradually, she matures beyond her deference and her low expectations--and she begins to love her new home.

The men in Nazneen's life are equally conflicted. Her husband is oafish, pompous, and even delusional--one daughter finds him utterly embarassing, the other is anxiously eager to please--but he's basically a good, caring man. Constantly seeing the mirage of success on the horizon of his flailing employment prospects, he plans to return to Bangladesh--intentions thwarted by the economic realities of his life in London. Nazneen's lover, in contrast, is idealistic, arrogant, and passionate; he fills her life with excitement, but he encloses her with a trap of a different sort. A reasonable request for information or a calm appeal for respect can be greeted by rigid certainty: "He looked at her up and down, as if she might be an impostor. 'Because,' he said with quiet emphasis, 'it is.'"

Until the unexpected, frantic climatic chapters that close the book, "Brick Lane" is composed of scenes from a marriage, scenes from an affair. She understands she can't have both, but she is confronted yet by another choice: her native country against her adopted one. The ghost of her mother tells her, "It's easy. You just have to endure," while her best friend in London asserts, "You can do whatever you like." Yet none of her decisions are "easy.
