Friday Night Lights by H.G. Bissinger is the miraculous story of a poor unheard of town in Texas that wants to win the high school football state championship.  This town, Odessa, Texas, does nothing but play football, and football games are their biggest events.  The whole town shows up to watch their football games under the lights.  This novel shows the life of one town and football team as they persevere through injuries and team disunity, through thick and thin, as they journey to win the state champion ship in the 1988-1989 football season for the Permian-Panthers of Odessa, Texas.  This is also an account of the town of Odessa's history.  This book shows how Odessa came to be, and the struggles of the town through racism and problems such as not wanting to desegregate the schools, and the quick changes from economic prosperity to depression with the oil companies, and how they continually dealt with it.  This book is the story of one town and their football team in their struggles together to win the football state championship together.
	I have always been a sport-fanatic and saw the Friday Night Lights movie, and then said that I must read the book, and I am currently watching the television show.  The book was very good and added a lot of things the movie did not have in it, such as a history of the town.  I liked the movie better because it was just the action and no other miscellaneous things added to it, whereas in the book you hit a lot of "slow spots" for me when reading about the town, rather than just the action of the football team and football games.  Also, because I saw the movie beforehand it partially spoiled the book for me, because I knew what the end result would be in most points of suspense.  The book does provide exciting accounts of all of the Permian Panthers football games in their quest to win state.  It also shows the struggle of a town through economic and discriminatory problems as it comes together through one thing- football.  This reminded me of another book I recently read: Inherit the Wind by Robert E. Lee and Jerome Lawrence in which the court systems must also be used to settle very controversial issues in the town about the school systems.  In Friday Night Lights those issues are of school desegregation, whereas in Inherit the Wind they are of teaching the evolution theory.  This book shows you that if you have a dream you should stick with it, no matter what and pursue that dream, because even though you may have some struggles with it no matter what the odds against you, you can most likely achieve that dream.  It also shows you the sacrifices needed for true dedication to something and how far people are willing to go for what they love in life.  I would rate this book a 4¼ stars out of five, and recommend it to kids who love sports, especially football, and adults who have a dream that they would like to achieve in order to see the struggles that you may be put through to achieve that dream
