The audiobook is ABRIDGED on 9 discs.

Actor Alfred Molina's (Dr. Octopus in "Spiderman 2") gives the audiobook a straightforward read in his English accent and serves the material well, never resorting to voice imitations or theatrical reading. (In case you're wondering, there are no musical snippets or audio recordings or other extras on the audio version.)

The audiobook covers the important facts and instances of the early lives of all four of The Beatles and ends on the the break-up and does not go into post-Beatles life except to sum up the information we already know.

As a person who enjoys The Beatles music and is casually interested in their story, I enjoyed listening to it immensely. If their were discrepancies, they were lost on me. 

The story moves chronologically and, though I don't think that Spitz intends to give any more attention to one member of the band over another, we get a better sense of John's complex personality than the other members of the band.

My only criticism (of the abridged audiobook at least) is that we're not given very much information about the Lennon/McCartney creative process, though we are given some information about the studio work. The one thing I wanted from the audiobook, but didn't get, were moments where John and Paul were working out the details of a song, or sitting side by side on the piano bench, or debating one lyric over another. There is some insight into the creative process here, but nothing that puts it under the microscope. (Hence 4 stars instead of 5).

There are alot of reviews here and they are very mixed. From what I'm reading, if you are a Beatles devotee you may find reason to take exception with things in the book. For example, though the book seems to be centered mostly on John, I felt I came away with a sense of him being a bit arrogant and difficult, even malicious sometimes. I've heard that he was a person of polarities and often showed great warmth, but I didn't get that sense from this book even though Spitz never seems to be intentionally portraying John in a negative light. 

That being said, if you are simply curious to learn more about The Beatles and aren't emotionally invested in every single detail, I fail to see how one wouldn't find this to be a very enjoyable audiobook.
