Excellent primer about this modern conflict minus the spin, controversy, and commercial interruptions...

1. John Keegan is without a doubt, one of the most highly respected military historians alive. If you're not familiar with his work, I'd highly recommend The Mask of Command (Alexander the Great, U.S Grant, Wellington, Hitler) and The Face of the Battle. (Waterloo, Somme, Agincourt) 

2. In The Iraq War, a short book and quick read, he starts with a brief history of Iraq, the rise of Saddam, the first Gulf War, and the most recent conflict. He ends with a postscript that details event in Iraq as recently as October 2004. 

A few points:

In the minds of many, the decision to go to war, the actual conflict, and the handling of recent events is politically charged, controversial, and even questionable in terms of the legitimate use of force. Regardless of your position, this book is a good informative read. Keegan skirts almost all controversy to describe the motives to go war and the execution of the conflict with complete clarity. It's a quick read. He takes you from the allied forces crossing the Kuwait border to the fall of Baghdad in about 40 pages.  

The brief section regarding Saddam's rise to power is fascinating. Appendix 2, which is a summation of his discussion with General Franks is also interesting and well organized: esp. Frank's description of the five fronts in Iraq and the use of deceptive operations. 

Hardcore fans of Keegan will no doubt be disappointed. (This is the historian with the ability to take you into the minds of Alexander the Great, Wellington, and Adolph Hitler with ease; and describe their campaigns with the same effortless and highly readable prose. 

You have to take this book for what it is: a brief expose on the current conflict. Also, towards the end of the book, Keegan even states that not enough time has passed to give the conflict true historical perspective. 

If the only thing you know about the Iraq War, Saddam, and the history of Iraq is limited to television news coverage, I'd highly recommend this book
