Young Miles is two novels (The Warrior's Apprentice, The Vor Game) and one novella (Mountains of Mourning) combined into one book.  This is the second omnibus in the Vorkorsigan Saga but the first collection that deals with and introduces us to the character of Miles Vorkosigan. 

All three entries are fantastic in their own right as they introduce us to a young Miles and tell the story of his coming of age in lieu of failed military career.  It's better not knowing the plot details before you go in, but needless to say when all is said and done, Miles has on one of the greatest sci fi adventures to date.

Bujold is great at most aspects of the sci fi novel but her greatest strength is her development of Miles himself.  Part crippled, and very complex, this vertically challenged protagonist uses his mind and his charisma to get through almost every challenge he comes across.  It's so refreshing to see character development of this level and Miles quickly becomes and lovable and endearing underdog.  He is brialliant and cunning while also being flawed and he is probably one of the few literary characters who actually warrants 6-8 books solely about him.  Miles Vorkosigan is arguably the single best and most interesting multi-book science fiction character to date, easily beating the likes of Ender Wiggin and similar heavy hitters.

The three books really compliment each other well as they show many different sides to Miles.  He always finds himself in sticky situations and here he uses his wits, intillect and magnetism to get extricate himself.  Bujold is also one of the rare science fiction writers out there that can generate comedy from human interaction.  This serious is the perfect mix of melodrama, comedy and invention.

It's not surprsing to see the long list of Nebulas and Hugo Bujold has won for her Vorkosigan serious (although her Paladin Of Souls win is as incomprehensible as it is political and depressing)  The Vor Game won the Hugo award and probably deservingly so as it much better than the (slightly more than mediocre) Fall of Hyperion and the bloated and ridiculous Earth by David Brin.  I haven't read the others nor heard anything amazing about them.

Bottom Line:  Excellent beginning into one of the best sci-fi operas out there.  I rank this series only behind the Foundation series as far as space epics go.  A must read for all sci-fi fans and people who like rooting for underdogs!
