I started using this journal 6 years ago and have never left home without it in my purse or tote.  There are so many lines that I actually use some of them to jot down my errands and appointments so that I don't forget. There are boxes in each category (breakfast/lunch/dinner/snacks) to list the amount of calories/fat grams/carbs/protein and fiber along with 2 extra boxes where I list the 'weight watcher points' of each item eaten as I've followed weight watchers way of life for 6 years now and found this to be easier and more comprehensive than the little papers they give you to record your daily intake.    It also has a place for physical activity which I like as I can list my walks, bike rides, spinning classes etc.  I hate writing down each and every gym move I make and would rather just write 'gym workout;1 hr:abs/high intensity and approx calories burned.  This is just my preference.
It also has a place to list your weight and notes and yes/no for meeting your goal.   I find that if I use this daily, I'm more likely to keep to my diet/fitness goals than if I don't.  In addition, when you look at your grand totals for the day you can decide whether you should adjust your intake the following day.  I'm also taking medications and it has a place to list vitamins/supplements/meds with description and qty in the am and pm which comes in really handy as I tend to forget and when I go to the doctor I can pull out the journal and go over days and weeks with confidence and accuracy.  Because of this journal I was able to work with my doctor and find that I'm allergic to gluten and dairy. I had written down 'stomach upset' in the notes area and by going over the pages in my journal we found a pattern and if I had tried to go on memory I'm sure I would have left out 95% of the items I had eaten.  I'm now on a gluten free diet and in 100% excellent health!!

I think I've just about covered this...buy it and see for yourself how you can feel and look better by journaling!!  

 
