This work was good but not quite as good as I was expecting having read some of Groothuis's other works. There is so much out there by the evangelical community regarding Postmodernism. Therefore, it is difficult  to add any new insight into what has already been stated. However,  Groothuis did add some new insight that has not been considered in quite  the detail which he gave. For instance, Christian apologetics, and how the  postmodern mindset effects the apologetic endeavor was covered in chapters  6 and 7 (albeit there is a fairly popular book that is devoted to this  endeavor titled &quot;Christian Apologetics in the Postmodern World&quot;  by Phillips &amp; Okholm). Another strong point of &quot;Truth Decay&quot;  was Groothuis's account of how postmodernism effects ethical reality.  Moreover, Groothuis took a strong stand on the correspondence view of truth  which I believe is unavoidable and also necessary for the overall debate of  the issue of truth. &quot;Truth Decay&quot; is a distinctly evangelical  work, which I appreciated and heartily agree. However, I could see the  influences of C. F. H. Henry and Francis Schaffer coming through in much of  what Groothuis purported in the area of apologetics; a method (the  presuppositional) that I do not necessarily agree with in many respects.       The contents of the book include an overview of modernism and the rise of  postmodernism (ch. 2). Here Groothuis brings to light some information  about postmodernism and clears up some confusion about &quot;what&quot; is  labeled postmodernism when it actually is not postmodernism. This was  interesting, since much of what I had read prior to this work about  postmodernism did not mention these things. Chapter 4 is titled &quot;The  Truth About Truth.&quot;  In this section, Groothuis discussed several  views of truth, he defends the correspondence view (thank you Dr.  Groothuis! ), and then he delineates the &quot;language&quot; of truth to  which the postmodern mindset holds. Also, Groothuis discusses logic and its  consistency and how this corresponds to truth (the inseparable nature of  the two). One of the stronger chapters was 5. In this chapter, Groothuis  discusses how postmodernism effects Christian theology. Of course, this  chapter discusses language and its interpretation/propositions and the  objective/subjective nature of such things.      Overall, the book was well  written, very informative, and I would recommend it for those who are  interested in assessing postmodernism from an evangelical point of view. I  wish I could have given another half a star
