The story of the Cuban exiles in Miami deserves to be told with drama and passion because that is what it has been.  In this page-turner, Joan Didion captures the rejection and racism that the Cuban exiles first encountered in Miami when they emigrated from Cuba after Castro assumed power.  She shows how some of the Cubans became successful businesspersons, political powerbrokers, shapers of local culture, renowned humanitarians and philanthropists, expert propagandists, able diplomats, drug runners, muggers, and internationally renowned terrorists.  

We see the close relationship the Cuban exiles formed with the USA government, especially its clandestine agencies.  We learn that in the 1960s Miami essentially became a CIA recruiting and operational-staging center.  Didion tells us that the CIA had as much as 120,000 "regular agents" (full and part-time) stationed in south Florida.  It had a flotilla of small boats (often used for terrorist raids on Cuba), making it the third largest navy in the western hemisphere at the time. It owned airline companies in the Miami area and holding companies that lent itself loans for covert operations.  "There were [also] hundreds of pieces of Miami real estate, residential bungalows maintained as safe houses, waterfront properties maintained as safe harbors" as well as "fifty five other front businesses" and "CIA boat shops," "guns shops," real-estate, travel and detective agencies (pp. 90-91).  

Yet the relationship between the Cuban Americans and the USA has been a troubled one.  Although the Cuban Americans find themselves dependent on the USA for maintaining their struggle against Castro, they also don't trust the government, blaming it for their loss at the Bay of Pigs and for adopting policies soft on Castro.  Likewise, the USA finds some Cuban Americans helpful in its secret foreign adventures (Chile, Nicaragua, Angola, etc.) as well as a nuisance when these terrorist elements assassinate foreign diplomats, blow up airplanes and banks, and murder USA citizens.  

Particularly poignant is Didion's description of the Cuban Americans' personal and often internecine struggle over understanding themselves as immigrants or exiles.  These struggles have resulted in broken friendships, shunning, public ridicule, financial loss, bodily harm and death.  

The book only covers Miami until 1987.  I wish Didion would update the book, although it might be dangerous for her to do so.

This is a great read and well worth the purchase.  
