Thomas Sowell is one of the most articulate and intelligent authors today.  His books are well-researched, politically unconventional, and highly  persuasive.  In this work, Mr. Sowell confronts the &quot;rhetoric&quot; of  the civil rights establishment and contrasts it with the  &quot;reality&quot; of American society and American law.  The liberal  establishment, according to Mr. Sowell,  made a key blunder in the late  1960s.  After the civil rights revolution became public policy, many  assumed that there would be &quot;statistical equality&quot; between  whites, blacks, Hispanics, and Asians in all categories from family income  levels to loan-acceptance rates.  Needless to say, this did not happen  during the heady days of the civil rights revolution.  Even in the year  2000, this equality still has yet to occur.  The only explanation,  according to activists, is systematic racism.  It would be nearly  impossible for Americans to believe that - nearly 50 years after the Brown  decision - we still live in a systemically racist society.  But that is  precisely the rhetoric that is force-fed to the American public.  Mr.  Sowell, on the other hand, states that discrimination does not explain the  statistical variance.  For example, Asian-Americans outperform  Anglo-Americans on virtually everything from SAT scores to PhDs.  Surely no  one would claim that American society discriminates against whites in favor  of Asians.  We must take other factors into account if we are to explain  this mystery.  Family size, age, educational courses chosen, and savings  rates are just some of the myriad ways that our races distinguish  themselves.  When we control these factors, there is absolutely no  divergence between the races.  An African-American male and an  Asian-American male of the same age, with the same education, in the same  occupational field earn the same amount of money.  The same is true of  Hispanic men and white men.  Incredibly, these statistics have been  consistent since the 1960s when America was still supposedly a  &quot;racist&quot; country.  Of course, there were racists in the 1960s  just like there are racists today.  But Mr. Sowell points out that our  nation is - contrary to the conventional wisdom- remarkably color-blind.   This would shock most Americans initially but is largely consistent with  daily experience.  The vast majority of Americans are not racist and would  resist the suggestion that they are secretly prejudiced.  Mr. Sowell's  studies reflect this hidden truth.  The author also makes important points  concerning the feminist movement.  Once you control for all other factors,  a man and woman earned the same income during the 1960s, even before the  feminist movement.  Men and women still earn the same paycheck today, even  amidst the whirlwind concerning &quot;pay inequality.&quot;  If there is a  moral to Mr. Sowell's story it is that the original civil rights movement  has become a hideous deformation of itself.  The original movement was  fought for the right reasons - equality before the law - and was remarkably  successful as these statistics reveal.  But - like most revolutions - this  one didn't know when to quit.  The political goal of &quot;equality of  opportunity&quot; became perverted into &quot;equality of results.&quot;   The prescription of affirmative action, largely unnecessary, has only  alienated the vast white majority and did nothing to close the  quality-of-life gap between whites and blacks (crime, drug use,  single-parent families, etc.)  On the other hand, it has certainly fattened  the wallets and enhanced the profiles of public figures who make a healthy  living denouncing the racism of American institutions, bullying private  corporations, and winning elections.  In their hearts, most Americans -  white, black, Asian, and Hispanic - suspect that these activists are wrong.   This book will solidify their conclusions and renew their pride in our  multicultural and progressive society
