I never bought this book, because I didn't plan on buying any book, I went to the mall to shop for other things and ended up in the bookstore, I read this book standing up from front to back.  When I picked up this book, I was skeptical about how interesting it will be.   I figured I do cover chapter 1 and perhaps 2, and drop it.   

The reason for my skepticism is because I was really into 50 when he came it, before his first album came out.  I was one of the few people who had copies and was playing it really hard.  Then he rose to fame, and I felt he was letting the fame get to his head, so I stopped listening to him, and never bothered to see his movie.   

But the moment, I picked up this book, i was hooked.   It is a well written piece of work, you could tell his co author is an accomplished actor, and 50 did a great job of telling the story of his life.  Being familiar with the "streets", I could feel the realness of the book, and unlike what some people have written, there is absolutely nothing that is overly exaggerated.  It's a true story that reveals where 50 comes from.  The book doesn't just talk about his accomplishments, but his fears, his mistakes, his naiveness and the process that shaped him, and allowed him to mature into who he is.   The book doesn't make him to be the man in charge, in the book, he tells the truth and many of the folks he talks about where doing much better than him, so it wasn't like he was bragging to be the biggest and baddest.  If anything, this is the first time, I am seeing the humble side of him.   Whilst the grity nitty details of the street life was excepted, what was totally unexpected was the humor found in the book.  I found myself laughing out, really loud! in the bookstore and having folks look at me as if I am crazy.

Assuming the entire book is fiction and complete lies, I will still recommend it, it is a very entertaining book.   This is not one of those real life inspirational books that I will give to a young person for the educational value, it does have an educational value about life in the street for those who didn't grow up in such backgrounds, but it also requires a mature mind who can pick up the subtle lessons within
