This is a big and helpful book that provides its readers with a rich and detailed history of how the Arab Peoples came to be with the founding and growth of Islam in the seventh century. Islam has spread beyond the bounds of the Arabs, but there is no mistaking the centrality of Islam in the life of the various groups that are all identified as Arabs (because of the language they speak - the language of the Qur'an).

In the early centuries, Prof. Hourani speaks of the religion formed into an empire and the various schools of thought became the various branches of Islam (not exactly like the different sects within Christianity). There are several chapters on the Ottoman Empire and its clashes with Europe and the Mongols coming from China.

With the decline and final collapse of the Ottoman Empire, the role of Europe becomes dominant after World War I. As the European Powers leave after World War II the author traces the rise of Arabism and the issue of Israel. The decades after the 1967 War are knotty ones and many people will take different approaches to explaining the history of these times.

This latest edition also includes Malise Ruthven as an author since Prof. Hourani died in 1993, shortly after the first edition came out. While this is humbly called "A History" rather than "The History", it has become the definitive book for the general reader who wants to know more about this subject. Given the present troubles in the world, this is a great resource and we should take the time to read it so we can understand more about the history that continues to be a force in shaping our times.

The caveat I will provide is that the book presents a rather positive view of the Arab world. He does not deal with issues that the West sees as problems in their culture, such as the status of women, the continued use of slavery, and so forth. There is a lot the authors could have written to show the Arab world as more internally complex. However, that would probably have taken the book beyond its intended scope
