   Whatever you think of his thoughts on the matter, this book is exceedingly well written and brimming with information about the history of German culture and science in the 20th Century that has too long been forgotten. I found myself unable to put this book down until I completed the part that covers Hitler's scientists, often taking the book along to places where I shouldn't have been reading.  I delayed reading other books I needed to read for my teaching or for articles I am writing to finish this one.  

This is a good, informative read. While I am hardly mathematically or scientifically minded, I never found myself backpaging or reaching for a dictionary or reference material on the Net to understand the great variety of topics that he discussed.  I know I will return to sections of this book that discuss the sciences as places for instruction on how to write clearly about complicated issues.
   
   The reality of much of Nazi Germany is that as a dictatorship formed as a last resort by German imperialism when it felt threatened with working class revolution in the early 1930s, Nazism came at a dreadful cost, though not one big German and World Capital (which generally welcomed Hitler in 1933-35)were not willing to pay.  One of those prices was the inability to coordinate, to centralize, to rationalize, and the overwhelming centrifugal forces of rivalries of bureaucratic factions which made it very hard for the Hitler regime to accomplish much in the realm of centralized planning and coordination not only of science but of industrial development, direction of its military, or defense of the inhabitants against the Allied terror bombings.

   Much of Cornell's story is the scientific version of what is a familiar story in Germany during Hitler of disasters, wrong turns, and quack minded boon doggles originated by Nazi leaders.
He also, interestingly enough, shows places where the Nazis were superior in their antismoking campaign and research into how tobacco caused cancer, while American and British governments were subsidizing tobacco and spreading smoking by giving free cigaretts to soldiers and sailors.
     
    Cornwell paints a needed picture of the triumph of German science and technology from the late 19th Century up to the Hitler years. He often contrasts it to the weakness and lack of support of British science and technology.  He's also quite careful to show that with a few exceptions like the pacifist Einstein German science put itself totally at the disposal of the Kaiser in the First World War, including Haber, the great Chemist, who masterminded and personally supervised the use of gas warfare.  In passing, he is one of the few writers on German 20th century history to accurately note the privations Germans suffered under the British blockade that continued until 1919 and the awful exactions that were demanded of Germany by the treaty of Versailles.

     When we get to the Nazi period, we find that like the rest of German bourgeois society, scientists who were not Jewish went along with the program, grudgingly in some cases, enthusiastically in others.  He even cites the tragedy of Ilse Minter, a Jewish woman physicist who thought she would be spared because she was an Austrian citizen whose collaboration with German scientists even after she left Germany made possible German discovery of nuclear fission.

       Throughout, Cornwell presumes an overarching moral superiority of British and American science and its collaboration their governments in war.  It is this I question. I doubt the inhabitants of Hiroshima and Nagaski, or the greater numbers killed in the firestorm raid on Tokyo,or innocent people murdered in the firestorms of Wurzburg, Hamburg, and Dresden would absolve American and British scientists who perfected firestorm bombing, designed the Manchester, the B-17, the Mosquito, the B-24, the P51, and the B-29 and invented napalm for their collaboration with a murderous brutal war machine.  There is no talk of Roosevelt's racist segregated state where lynchings of African Americans were still public events with people selling hot dogs and ice cream and  speeches by politicians. Nor does he speak of the British Empire which held more than quarter of the Earth's population as colonial slaves, many of whom in the Arab East and Central Asia were policed from the air by RAF fighters and bombers.

Yet, I don't expect Cornell to share my rather different view of the war. What he shows, in my opinion is that German scientists were no different than anyone else.  Science and pure intellect cannot transcend social and political evil in and of itself.  Scientists can be no more or less racist, antiSemitic, greedy for their own power, than any other profession.

   Without challenging the fundamental nature of society, led and controlled by institutions owned and controlled by the wealthy, without a social force with power to control that society, scientists in the US or Poland, Germany or France, cannot ipso facto be a source of resistance or revolution.  They are too tightly tied to institutes, laborartories, universities controlled by big capital.  They are on very short leashes.

    However, I want to emphasize that this is an extremely readible book, well documented like Cornwell's other work. There is much here about how science works as a social unit there is rarely discussed elsewhere.  In my opinion he very clearly settles the legend created after the Second World War by German scientists that they prevented a German nuclear weapon in World War II due to the opposition of Hitler.  Like so many things under the Nazi regime, a German nuclear weapon was never constructed because the resources available from a weak and overstretched German war economy that could not manage the empire it had conquered were too thin.  At the start of the war, the German government eschewed long-term programs because they had economic resources for a quick war and their wishful thinking made them think they had one.  Later, the resources they had were nothing compared to what Washington or even London had.
