In my quest to re-read old favorite books I came across the women of the otherworld series and realized that I had only reviewed two of the so far published six books-something I am attempting to remedy. 

"Stolen" is the second book in the series, told from the viewpoint of Elena, the world's only female werewolf. The premise of this book is nothing like the last and if you're hoping for a nice simple werewolf story then you'll be a little disappointed. In "Stolen" in the supernatural world is blown wide open and it is reveled that not only are werewolf's not alone, but there are in fact witches, vampires, shamans, and even half-demons, along with a few other interesting "species." Now you'd think that someone who turns into a wolf a couple of times a week would be a little more receptive to this idea. But nope. Elena is fairly stubborn that way-she wants proof.

Naturally the pack has some skepticism about this, but that gets resolved pretty quickly when we find out that a billionaire video game designer is bankrolling a secret science set up that involves kidnapping special beings and studying them-and then hunting them down in a real life video game. Not that this concerns the generally self enclosed pack. Until Elena gets nabbed.

I never, ever read horror novels, and generally avoid the whole vampire/werewolf/witch thing, so I can't offer much of a comparison there. What I can say about this book is that is lacking in a dew things, and it has some things that make up for those holes. First off, there is way less pack interaction in this, considering Elena is kidnapped for the majority of that book. Naturally, this means no Clay, who, while he may be slightly psychotic and driven almost completely by wolf instincts, is clearly the perfect mix of best friend/soul mate/bane of Elena existence, and without him the book is just way less fun. And lets face it, if you're reading Kelley Armstrong, you're reading at least partially for the sex scenes, which, while there are some in this book, have nothing on the ones in "Bitten."

 But then there the other supernatural to make up for, such as Paige Winterbourne, a young, extremely opinionated and annoying witch with a habit of getting in serious trouble, Adam Vasic, a half-fire demon surfer dude who is perfectly nice unless he gets a little angry, in which case you may get a third degree burn, Cassandra and 300+ year old vampire with a serious empathy problem and of course, Savanna, the pubescent witch with the dead half with half demon mother who brings out maternal feelings in Elena. 

Final verdict-the book has its strengths and weakness. But I couldn't put it down even the second time around. In my book that's five stars.
