I immediately bought this book when I saw it on display in the bookstore, without needing to flip through and read passages. I believe that the "Star Wars" films are the most spiritual films ever made, as the story is soaked in classic mythological motifs with heavy borrowing from Buddhist ideas about how our universe works. This book is written by a "Star Wars" fan, so he knows his material, and because he's also a Buddhist, he is able to write the main tenets of Buddhism in easy to understand concepts for anyone familiar with the Star Wars characters.

When I saw "The Phantom Menace" in 1999, I was baffled by the amount of backlash that film inspired in fans. The film expanded our knowledge of "the Force" and I remember getting chills when Qui-Gon Jinn told Anakin: "remember, your focus determines your reality." That line sums up my spiritual beliefs in a perfect phrase and I'm glad to read that the author of this book mentioned that several times as well. Another thing that the author brilliantly picked up on was the character of Jar Jar Binks, which so many fans HATED with an unbelievable passion. I happened to love Jar Jar Binks and I don't think it was accidental that Lucas made him as annoying as he was. The name "Jar Jar" should clue anyone in to Lucas' point...being so close to the word "jarring". This book will have you seeing Jar Jar Binks in a totally new light and I'm glad someone pointed it out so Lucas doesn't have to spell it out for everyone.

In "Attack of the Clones", my favorite of the new trilogy, I got chills when I saw the ethereal glowing blue in the Jedi library and the scene where Obi-Wan tries to find Kamino with his three dimensional galaxy map. Those scenes are some of the most spiritual-intuitive scenes I've ever seen in ANY movie. For one thing, I believe the library in heaven looks similar to the Jedi library and I look forward to perusing its database someday.

This book makes a great introduction to Buddhism and I certainly will refer back to highlighted passages because I believe in the Eightfold Path, especially being mindful of our present and calming the mind before we panic or jump to hasty conclusions. Anyone who thinks Buddhism is a false religion simply hasn't investigated it and tried it. The world would be a vastly improved place if people attempted to live its principles and practiced mindfulness.

I also appreciated the author writing a chapter on the Jedi's tendency to kill...as that isn't a spiritual principle but I think for the sake of the movies, Lucas had little choice but to use that for his story. The good thing is that he doesn't show the violence. The author is correct, though, about how a spiritual person simply cannot take another human life, no matter how compassionate we may think we are in the act. Killing is still depriving a person of changing...thus makes Luke Skywalker's decision not to kill the Emperor or Darth Vader all the more profound.

This book will make an excellent companion to "Christian Wisdom of the Jedi Masters" and "The Tao of Star Wars"...as all three books pick up on the ideas, scenes and characters of the greatest film series in the history of humanity and present the spiritual concepts in an easy to understand manner. But I think this one is the best of the three...because its closer to "The Force" than the others
