I was first introduced to D.H. Lawrence in a Brit Lit class when I was in college.  We read SONS AND LOVERS, and I was totally blown away by Lawrence's verdant prose and by the novel's brutal, uncomfortable beauty.  My professor mentioned LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER frequently while we were studying Lawrence, and since then I've wanted to read this later, more well-known, more controversial work.  Finally, two years after that class, I got around to it.

LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER tells the story of a young woman named Constance Reid, who marries Sir Clifford Chatterley when he's home on leave for a month from the battlefields of World War I.  After a month of honeymooning, Clifford must return to the war; and sadly, when he returns six months later, he comes home "more or less in bits," paralyzed from the waist down. The newlyweds settle at Clifford's family home, Wragby, near the industrialized town of Tevershall.

Although Clifford cannot please Constance sexually, he and his wife are intellectually connected; they make love with words, and at first this is enough for Constance.  However, a brief affair with one of Clifford's colleagues makes Connie aware of her more carnal needs, of her desire for physical pleasure.

Enter Oliver Mellors, the Chatterleys' groundskeeper who lives a life of solitude in a secluded wooded cabin.  In Mellors, Connie is awakened to a higher consciousness, to the power of sexual pleasure and mutual satisfaction.  Her relationship with Mellors helps her emerge from her cocoon of prudishness to become a highly sexualized being.  The affair continues under Clifford's nose, and he is either too inattentive to notice or just pretends not to.

As a baronet, Clifford is in a position of power, but he finds himself completely powerless.  The mines of Tevershall, which he controls, are dying; and not only is his industry dead, so is his sexuality.  He, and his business, are impotent.  What makes him so interesting is the almost tender way in which Lawrence portrays him.  The scene in which he tries desperately to force his wheelchair's dying motor to roll uphill while Connie and Mellors look on is particularly heartbreaking.  Clifford is vain, and he has no use for sex or other things of a physical nature, but he also knows that the only way he can produce an heir is if Connie has sex with another man and allows Clifford to claim the child as his own.  His lack of power, and his reaction to the knowledge of it, make him compelling.

Unlike Clifford, Connie's other love interest, Oliver Mellors, is confident and unashamed and almost pagan in his celebration of physicality. He's a surprisingly endearing character, a common man with some very intelligent things to say, who isn't intimidated by class boundaries, who doesn't chastise himself for ravishing a married woman.

Constance Chatterley is a woman awakening to her sexual self, and Lawrence chronicles her metamorphosis in explicit, sensitive detail.  It's suprising how well Lawrence was able to write from a woman's perspective.  However, Connie's perception of her ideal relationship near the end of the novel probably didn't quite ring true for many female readers of the time (at least, not that they would admit):  "Complete intimacy!  She supposed that meant revealing everything concerning yourself to the other person, and his revealing everything concerning himself.  But that was a bore.  All that weary self-consciousness between a man and a woman!  a disease!"  It's observations like this that made LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER so controversial.

LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER has probably remained so popular for 80 years because of its sexual content, which was undoubtedly completely immoral for the time period in which is was written.  But of course the content is not anything too shocking in today's world of pay-per-view pornography and busty women on the covers of erotic fiction sold in supermarkets everywhere.  However, this book shouldn't be bunched into that category, by today's standards or any other age's; I would like to think LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER is still popular today because of Lawrence's incredibly brave writing.

Lawrence expounds on many controversial ideas in this, his last major novel before his death in 1930.  The novel is rife with criticism of post-WWI England and the failures of industrialization to support a growing economy.  Lawrence believes sensuality should be the means of connecting with environment, not through the workings of iron and gritty coal.  In LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER, industry is impotent; but men and women are sexually alive.

My only issue with the novel is that some of the sex scenes are absolutely ridiculous, and read like Lawrence was writing them merely for the shock factor.  His language is often unnecessarily crude, and the whole "John Thomas" and "Lady Jane" thing is just silly.  However, this ridiculousness is balanced nicely with some beautiful, sensual descriptions:  Connie's first orgasm, the use of twined flowers to symbolize purity in love, the beautiful language Mellors uses in his letter to Connie at the end of the novel:  "I love the chastity now that it flows between us.  It is like fresh water and rain...like a river of cool water in my soul."  

It's undeniable that Lawrence's prose is absolutely intoxicating and exciting, and he proves it again and again in the pages of this novel, written even as his life was ending.  And that's what makes LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER memorable: not the sex, but the words used to describe the sex.  LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER is an intimate look at love and sex, a novel whose popularity has remained for 80 years--and probably will remain far into the future, and rightfully so
