OK, OK, I am 55 years old and just finished TWILIGHT.  This is classified as a teen or young adult fiction; however, it was in the adult section at my library and I grabbed it quickly!  No matter what your age, this is a good book!

I am a HUGE vampire fan and this is the first book I have read that deals with vampires in a different way -- that way being that they are involved in the normal, daily living of humans.  You know how it goes, usually they are in coffins, with capes, fangs, no sunshine, yadayadayada, but in this book they are more life-like if you will pardon the pun. And it works!

Bella moves to the small town of Forks to live with her father for a while.  There she meets Edward, who is the most beautiful creature she has ever laid eyes on.  Creature being the key word.  What follows is their rocky romance since it would be unusual for a vampire/human to fall in love.  It is a good book, good story line, great plot, twists and turns, and suspense, not to mention the romance, and the usual, normal daily life of teens at school and home.  The romance is fitting for young teens; kissing, hugging, and leaving you/them wanting for more.  However, it does not go THERE.

I would recommend this book to every age group.  I will read Ms. Meyer's newest, I believe it is titled NEW MOON.  I can see from other reviews it is being very well received.

Ms. Meyer's work is to be commended.  While I knew the book was for young adults, it never read like that and the book held my interest throughout.  It was not predictable; however, a few parts of the book seemed very repetitive to me.  The ending was very suspenseful and good. 

While it was a book involving vampires, it was NOT one where you are afraid to read it at night or afraid to turn off the lights and then run like heck to get to the safety of your bed -- believe me, I have read many a book like that, but those are ADULT books and probably not appropriate for younger people.  But when you grow up, young-in's -- do read -- if you haven't already - Stephen King, Dean Koontz, and Robert McCammon.  They rock like Ms. Meyer does, but believe me, they rock harder and nastier and you WILL run and jump and be afraid.

This is a GOOD BOOK.  Read it, pass it on, recommend it to other adults and young adults too.  A great Christmas gift for those who love romance and vampires!  Who would have thunk that would be a great combination.

Great work, Ms. Meyers!  Thank you.

Thanks!!!  Pa
