 I love books that challenge my beliefs with well-formed arguments and mountains of supporting evidence.  Those books come about infrequently and pretenders are full of holes large enough to drive my stubbornness through.  1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus by Charles Mann is a treatise guaranteed to both please and anger every reader coming to the volume with preconceptions about the Americas and its history.

It challenges the two most persevering paradigms about these continents, which in themselves contrast drastically and often violently.  The environmentalist sees a hemisphere pristine when we arrived, precariously balanced ecologically, with multitudes of natives tending for the land as adherents care for the Goddess.  The developer sees untouched, empty terrain, destined to be crafted into a population-sustaining paradise - preplanned to a degree the world has never seen.  Okay, I grant you that I'm greatly oversimplifying the viewpoints, but Mann doesn't.  He gives the opposing sides plenty of real estate in his book and then dissembles both arguments equally.

This is the first comprehensive historical and scientific book to incorporate all of the most recent research and discovery.  The picture of the Americas that emerges is one of two continents of well structured societies with no pristine wildernesses left.  There were a lot of people here, in the hundreds of millions.  First accounts show settlements of humans in lengths of the Amazon river spanning up to a hundred solid miles.  MezoAmerica was teeming with civilization, nothing was untouched, uncultivated, or unstructured.  Archeology and Anthropology experts show that the technology of the Americas matched anything anywhere else in the world.  They had developed mathematics and the building arts to surpass the Greeks, Arabics and Chinese.  Maize, the principle crop of the New World, is the single greatest human example of biogenetics before the genome project.

So, the environmentalists, if these hypothesis prove accurate, are going to have to concede that the Americas are a product of human land stewardship and that the natives were exploiting every species of plant and animal and changing the landscape however they saw fit.  Alternatively, the developers are going to have to concede that this land was teeming with people (and according to the consensus of scientific study, those people fell in horrific numbers to the onslaught of diseases, spreading in advance of European conquest) and that those people were using the land in more productive ways than today's industrial advancement has been able to achieve.  To sum up, the Americans were neither eco-saviors, nor eco-destroyers; instead they were merely people living the best they could
