Alister McGrath seeks to return us to an understanding of the poetry of life.  He writes with a moving style and is fiercely passionate about the idea that nature should move passion within us.  The book is a polemic, in the best sense of that word, to argue that we should be awestruck and spellbound by nature.  But not by nature itself.  He would seek for us to return to the romanticism of yesteryear- but not merely end there.  For McGrath wishes us to go beyond the rationalism of the Englightenment and Modernism, recreating all of life as machine, and beyond the wishy-washy universal acceptance of Post-Modernism.  Beyond, to see the beyond.  Nature for McGrath exists not simply to study, or even to enjoy, but to point to the God who made it.  This has long been the message of Christianity- and McGrath makes convincing arguments for Genesis of environmental rape coming from secular atheism rather than Christianity with it's strong support for nature as God's handiwork.

Although at times I wished there were more facts to back up McGrath's statements, it's really not that kind of book.  There are facts present, but the book's not designed as an argument as much as poetry in itself.  As one who enjoys and dabbles in both science and poetry, I was moved.  I was reminded of what first drew me to studying nature.  It was not to listen to dry lectures of astronomy, but rather to percieve the boundless beauty and imagination present in creation, because the Creator is boundless and imaginative.  It isn't enough to embrace environmentalism simply because if we don't, we'll die as a species, however true that might be.  The real reason to embrace it is because it is filled with the numinous, and it's presence allows us to focus on the Author of the Numinous.

Though Dawkins is rightfully held up as a type of scientific materialism that seeks to deny all other reality, it is not done in a mean or vindictive manner.  I was continuously impressed by McGrath's gentle tone in dealing with his academic adversaries.  Likewise McGrath is to be strongly credited with fully accepting the backbone of biology, evolution, and at the same time exploring the myriad possibilities for understanding God better through studying His creation.  But those are the wrong words.  McGrath would better say, embracing His creation, and being infused by it
