Ah, ire.  Lovely lovely ire.  Nothing gets parents more hot under the collar than debating the relative merits of a sex-ed picture book.  Suddenly, once sane and collected adults erupt into veritable Mount Vesuviuses of indignation.  Sure, they want their kids to learns the rudimentary mechanics of procreation, but they want it on THEIR terms.  "Mommy Laid An Egg" is a very good example of a sex-ex text that's been banned from libraries, burned in bonfires, and generally demonized by those who see fit to dislike it.  Obviously, becoming a banned book does not automatically make you worthwhile reading (just 99.9% of the time, really).  When it comes to "Mommy Laid An Egg" debaters, they're usually split into two camps.  You have the people who love its irreverence, its wit, and its light-hearted handling of a formerly overly serious subject.  Then you have the people who point out that this book contains very little factual information, avoids correct biological terms like the plague, and has a gratuitous sequence that I once heard a librarian refer to as the, "kiddie-lit kama sutra".  There's a third camp, I should note, that just hates the book because it talks about sex, but these are the kinds of people who seek out such books so as to hate them and, as such, will be duly ignored.  So which of these two takes on the book is the correct one?  To find that answer, you need to take a closer look at what, "Mommy Laid An Egg" is all about...
	
As a crazed assortment of kids, pets, and pillows camp out on the living room sofa, a mother and father (hippies to the core) come in and inform their offspring as to how babies are made.  The sugar-hepped-up kids are game and suddenly hear a whole heaping helping of blarney from their beloved parental units.  They're told that girls are formed from sugar and spice and that boys are from slugs, and snails and puppy dogs' tails.  Babies are delivered via dinosaur, and made out of gingerbread, and all other kinds of essentially implausible ideas.  Once the parents finish with this "explanation" their far wiser children yuk it up.  "What a bunch of nonsense", they crow.  Then, with crayons and paper in hand, the kids go about telling their parents exactly how babies are REALLY made.  Mommies have eggs inside and daddies have "seeds" in a kind of "seed pod" outside their bodies.  The "tube" from the daddies is inserted into the mommies and then the "seeds" swim inside using their tails.  There is then a two page spread of various mommies and daddies getting it on via skateboard, clown acts, whilst falling with balloons, and on a fascinatingly labeled "space hopper".  The "seeds" race to the egg in the mommy, fertilize it, create a baby, and "when it's ready, out pops the Baby".  The children then say that now YOU know how this occurs and so does everyone else.  They open their front door and a bunch of different animals with their babies walk on in, suggesting that perhaps procreation is not limited to balloon toting mommies and daddies.
	
Okay.  There's a lot to talk about here.  First of all, let's talk about the fact that the book begins with a weird assortment of fables parents might try to sell their kids on when it comes to making babies.  If you don't approve of parents misleading their kids in this fashion, better avoid that Woodie Guthrie picture book, "New Baby Train".  It may not be your style.  Personally, I thought this was a pretty good way to begin the book.  These stories are ridiculously untrue, and carry echoes of Shel Silverstein and other silly picture book artists.  Next, we come to a far more difficult part of the book.  Ms. Babette Cole has decided not to confuse kids with technical terms like "sperm" and "penis".  She's conveying the general idea and not the out-and-out factual terms.  Now, the go-to guide for explaining sex to kids is usually author Joanna Cole's, "How You Were Born".  In that book's opening note to parents, Ms. Cole says that such explanations can be confusing.  She says, "The idea of the ovum as an egg leads some children to think that they hatched from a chicken's egg".  So this book's choice to not call body parts by their proper names may, in the end, cause more harm than good.  Maybe.  Maybe not.  It's your call to say.  
	
Then we get to the real reason that "Mommy Laid An Egg" gets so much grief.  The sheer variety of sexual positions crudely drawn.  You know, I'm gonna have to side with the people who say to chill out on this one.  Seriously, people.  Let's take a breather here.  To a parent, these two pages are kind of shocking.  You almost never see people having sex in picture books.  Obviously Ms. Cole realized that and chose to negate the shock value by making the people in the pictures very very basic figures.  There's nothing gratuitous about these illustrations.  What they're doing is showing how people "fit together" in as silly and joyful a way as possible.  Your child is not going to see these two pages and freak out.  They're going to see these two pages and get a visual answer for what the actual sexual act constitutes without it being explicit in any way.  Far better that we get SOME idea, as we do here, than as found in that other picture book sex-ed story, "Where Willy Went".  In most sex-ed picture books (and Joanna Cole's book is to blame here as well) kids never really understand what sex is except in the vaguest of terms.  "Mommy Laid An Egg" is one of the very few to actual show it in an understandable, if downright bizarre, way.
	
Whew!  Got all of that?  Good.  Now, I personally believe that there is no number one go-to source of sexual information for very young kids.  But different books provide different information for different ages.  For very young kids, "Mommy Laid an Egg" is ideal.  It conveys difficult-to-grasp ideas in a funny way.  After that, you can move on to "Where Willy Went" by Nicholas Allan.  That book is bad on visuals but does well with technical terms.  Finally, when they're even older than that, get 'em an updated  edition of Joanna Cole's, "How You Were Born".  That book has photographs and is really the number one sex-ed source for children.  Decrying the evils of "Mommy Laid An Egg" may make you feel good at the time, but the book really does fulfill a need.  It's not an ideal book, no.  But it's one of the few that actually has some fun with its subject.  I suspect that the real objection so many people have to it is that it doesn't teach its subject with a dour expression on its face.  Nothing disturbs people more than goofiness.  If you don't believe me, check out some of the negative reviews for this book.
