This unique history of a unique war 'necessity'  includes photos and remembrances of a war correspondent, Barrett McGurn, who covered the Western Pacific for fourteen months in 1943-44, and his associates as they put together YANK for the soldiers out on the field.  

This was written for the combatants in all the different services in the War.  It was free to the troops in combat and considered an official War Department publication.  The five-cent price for all others was a token rate because 'the theory was that no one would read what he received for free.'  Many things were censored, but it is the record of the enlisted men as they recorded the true happenings in their own way in a week-by-week diary.  Some wrote poems to express their despair and loneliness away from their families 'back home.'

It went on sale for the first time June 17, 1942 and was dreamed up by Colonel White.  Designed by President FDR and Secretary of War Stimson as a way to let the military at the lowest levels 'blow off steam' and also read what others were thinking, the circulation exceeded 2.5 million in forty-one countries and the readership topped four million.

George Baker created the "Sad Sack" cartoon which made him popular after the war ended.  Mr. McGurn, at the age of 25, in 1939 had gone abroad as a foreign correspondent for the 'Tribune.'  He had started out as a cub reporter in the late '30s on the 'New York Herald Tribune.'  He wrote "The United Nations was about to be founded in San Francisco.  It would put an end to wars!"  Don't we wish?!

After Joe McCarthy (no relation to the senator from Wisconsin) took over as editor of YANK, the paper included a weekly pinup of women "to boost morale."  Betty Grable was by far the most popular.  Others included Dinah Shore, Jane Russell, Ava Gardner, Jean Harlow, Gypsy Rose Lee, Barbara Stanwyck, and Ingrid Bergman (shown in the book on the cover as a farm girl).

There were 150 editions total during the War.  The last cover showed a copy of an Army 'Honorable Discharge' certificate "as a testimonial of honest and faithful service to this country" signed by Dwight W. Eisenhower.  This was a one of a kind publication, never to be repeated.  The photos are varied and interesting, but the written report of action in New Guinea and the Phillippines was history in the making.

Mr. McGurn has written AMERICA'S COURT: SUPREME COURT, PILGRIM'S GUIDE TO ROME, and DECADE IN EUROPE.  He spent twenty years in Europe, North Africa, and Asia as a correspondent and then a Foreign Service officer
