Witherington is a professor of New Testament at Asbury Theological Seminary in Wilmore, KY and the author of numerous books.  This book, The Gospel Code, was written specifically to address the issues raised by the popular novel The Da Vinci Code.  Witherington really does a very good job of supplying historical evidence and context for the reader to understand the false and misleading claims of Dan Brown's novel.  The book really does a good job of exploring and uncovering the real issues and the real problem of Brown's novel, which really is an attack on traditional Christianity and the divinity of Jesus Christ.

The Gospel Code begins by exploring the hidden messages within Brown's book - a subtle suggestion that there is new wisdom, new information, new revelation that person can discern regarding the concept of their own identity especially as it relates to the divine.  Witherington points out that Brown carefully named one of the primary characters in the book Sophie Neveu, which means "New Wisdom" - and Ms. Neveu's character "represents the modern public seeking insider knowledge (gnosis) so she can understand the secret of her own identity. ...In other words, the religious quest ultimately leads us back to our own self, an exercise in pure narcissism."  Witherington hits the main problem of The Da Vinci Code right on the head - that true religious pursuit leads a person back to the god within them, not the transcendent and timeless God of Scripture.

Witherington continues in the book to address the fallacies of The Da Vinci Code looking at the assumption that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene and other issues that Witherington addressed dealt with the Gnostic gospels.  A very interesting point that Witherington addressed that I had not read in any other book was that the Gnostics believed that matter was evil and were very much ascetic in their lives (opposed to marriage).  He points out how odd it is for Brown to use the texts of the Gnostic writings to make a point about the marriage of Jesus, something that in fact would contradict much of the teachings of the Gnostics themselves.

The book ends with an examination of the canonization process of the biblical gospels followed by a postscript commentary by Witherington about the loss of truth in today's society and its impact on our culture.  The book was a very interesting read - Witherington is clearly a very gifted scholar and writer and I look forward to reading some of his other works after finishing this one.
