A passionate home cook that has been honing her cooking skills for the last 25 years, concentrating on Italian cooking for the last 10 years, writes this review.  My favorite cookbooks are "The Professional Chef" by the Culinary Institute and "Culinary Artistry".  With more than 500 cookbooks in my collection I am usually disappointed in my recent cookbook acquisitions.  This book is exactly what you expect it to be.  It is a vast collection of almost any recipe that you will ever want to prepare.  I have been very pleased with the thoroughness of the editors in regard to what they included in this book.

According to the editor, the goal of the book was to give the reader every recipe they could ever want in one volume.  I have tried to use the book as a reference manual to see if they achieved their stated goal.  In the nine months that I have owned this book it has contained a version of every recipe that I have searched for except for recipes for fiddlehead ferns.  Given the obscure nature of fiddlehead ferns as an ingredient, I did not consider that omission a significant issue.

The editor subdivided the book as follows:

Hor d`oeuveres and first courses
Soups
Salads
Sandwiches and Pizza
Pasta, Noodles, and Dumplings
Grains and Beans
Fish and Shellfish
Poultry
Beef, Veal, Pork and Lamb
Vegetables
Breads and Crackers
Breakfast and Brunch
Cookies, Bars and Confections
Cakes
Pies, Tarts, and Pastries
Fruit Desserts
Puddings, Custards, Mousses, and Souffles
Frozen Desserts and Sweet Sauces
Sauces and Salsas
Relishes, Chutneys, Pickles, and Preserves
Basics

I have been thoroughly satisfied with each recipe that I have prepared.  I was particularly pleased with the recipe for baked potato chips, which are much easier to make than I expected.   The bread section is very well done.  I enjoy baking bread and find this chapter to be as good as any of my bread cookbooks.  The directions are very detailed and well written.  If you pick up a copy of this book I highly recommend the Mustard and Cheese cracker recipe on page 604.  These have been a real winner in my home.   The recipe for Maple Mustard-Glazed Canadian Bacon on page 658 is so exceptionally good that it should be illegal.  From a purely Italian perspective, the Mortadella and Truffle Stuffed Pork Loin with Rosemary Roast Potatoes was absolutely amazing.

I have read other reviews that commented on the yellow text and feel that I should clarify.  The name of each recipe is written in a sort of mustard yellow color, but the remainder of the recipe is black font on white paper.  My 44-year-old eyes have had no difficulty reading the recipe names.  I do not find this mustard yellow text to be a problem.  I would suggest that you take a look at the inside of the book in a bookstore before deciding not to buy this book.  The recipes that I have tried have all been dead on in terms of directions and taste.  I think this book is much better than the "Joy of Cooking" or "The New York Times Cookbook".  I would highly recommend this book to any foodie that is looking for a compendium of must have recipes.

