This book is a well-researched and highly detailed account of how the Bush family established their close political and financial bond with the Saudi royal family. It all began back in 1974 when a Texas aircraft broker named James Bath sold a F-27 turboprop to Salem bin Laden, Osama's older brother. From there developed the "Houston-Jeddah Connection" which allowed wealthy Saudis to gain access to powerful Texas politicians including Papa Bush. The Bush family then went on to develop a mutually beneficial relationship with their fellow oil business tycoons -the Saudi royal family. 

Unger also points out some of the highly dubious foreign policy decisions made along the way. These include the Reagan-Bush administration's policy of militarily backing the Afghan mujahadeen in their fight against the Soviet Union. One of these Muslim "holy warriors" was Osama bin Laden, who was transformed by his war experience in Afghanistan from a pious but spoiled rich kid to the world's most deadly terrorist. Reagan and Bush also continued to support Saddam Hussein, even after they found out he was using chemical weapons against his own Kurdish citizens, because Iraq was considered an ally against Iran. 

Of course, Saddam's relationship with Papa Bush went quickly downhill after he invaded Kuwait and threatened to invade Saudi Arabia, thus endangering the global market for petroleum. Saddam was quickly expelled from Kuwait. But many called Bush a "wimp" for refusing to finish the job and take Saddam out of power. Meanwhile, Osama declared a terrorist jihad against the United States because U.S. soldiers were being based in Saudi Arabia. He considered this be a blasphemy against Islam, with the "infidels" now standing on the "sacred soil" of his homeland. Osama was sent into exile. But the wealthy Bin Laden family remained close to the Saudi royals who also maintained their "special relationship" with the Bush family.    

When W Bush came into the presidency he was determined to finish off what his daddy had started in Iraq. This goal also involved a highly personal grudge, as Saddam had previously attempted to have Papa Bush assassinated. In fact, even prior to W's election, a policy favoring the overthrow of Saddam had already been written up by a neo-conservative group, called "Project for a New American Century," which had strong ties to Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfild and others. Basically, W Bush and his cohorts were waiting for any excuse to invade Iraq. 

Of course, the opportunity arrived following 9/11. W played down the fact that all of the 9/11 terrorists were actually Saudi citizens. He then proceeded to give wealthy Saudis, including members of the Bin Laden family, special permission to leave the United States without even a formal interview to gather information. This occurred while all other airplanes in America were being grounded.

W tried, without success, to establish links between Saddam and the 9/11 terrorists. A foolish idea since "religious" Osama and "secular" Saddam were bitter enemies. Then there were the bogus claims about Saddam's supposed "Weapons Of Mass Destruction" that were never found. All of this being a prelude to the U.S. invasion of Iraq and the military quagmire that we currently find ourselves in. Today substantial numbers of American soldiers and innocent Iraqi civilians continue to die in this senseless war started by the cowardly "chicken hawks" of the Bush administration. Meanwhile, Osama and his fellow terrorists continue to run free, no closer to being captured than the day of 9/11.

Unger manages to cover all of this and much more, while writing a brillant critique of the Bush family and their close links to the tyrannical and highly corrupt royal family of Saudi Arabia. Highly recommended
