H.G. Wells' WAR OF THE WORLDS is a wonderfully imagined science fiction novel. But it is also a biting commentary on its era and on the evils of British imperialism in the late Victorian era.

Supposedly inspired by the British decimation of the South African Hottentot tribes, WAR OF THE WORLDS concerns intelligent, pitiless, technologically advanced Martians invading Great Britain and laying waste to humanity. Little more than giant bloodsucking brains, the Martians care not a whit for the natural world they have discovered, and they care even less for its denizens, except as a source of sustenance. Earthly culture is likewise eminently disposable. Wells rather intentionally puts one in mind of Jonathan Swift's earlier A MODEST PROPOSAL, which postulated that the young children of Ireland could make a fine food source for the British, and for the same satiric reasons.

The narrator (essentially Wells himself) is a philosophical writer living in the comfortable West End village of Woking. He is intimately connected with the Martian invasion from day one and becomes a chronicler of it's inauspicious beginning, it's destructive high-water mark, and it's ignominious end. Although written in 1896, WAR OF THE WORLDS has a bizarrely twenty-first century feel to it. The pastoral and complacent environs of Woking become a perfect counterpoint to the chaotic fog of war, death, and indiscrimate destruction wreaked by the Martians, a prescient envisioning of The Great War, glimpsed in the middle distance of the future, and World War Two, dimly lying beyond. 

Wells imagines his Martians and their almost sapient war machines in exquisite detail, including the Martians' great flying machine. Martian technology literally suffocates humanity (the Black Smoke) and is so advanced that it renders humanity's technology obsolescent ("Bows and arrows against the lightning"). 

Wells' commentators include his intellectual narrator who becomes a kind of British upper-middle-class Everyman, a rough-hewn artilleryman who envisions a pragmatic future under the Martian heel even while plotting the invaders' overthrow (yet significantly, he lacks the energy to do more than dream), the half-mad and unthinking Curate, who calls blindly upon God even while it is evident his faith has been shattered beyond restoration, and the narrator's brother, who fights manfully against the blind panic that has gripped humanity in its talons. Taken together, these four characters represent all the aspects of man.

The downfall of the Martians, as most people know, is caused by insignificant microbes, "the humblest things on God's green earth" to which the Martians have no resistance. Substitute "natives" for "microbes," and the ending presages the setting of the sun on the British Empire. The meek do inherit the Earth.

WAR OF THE WORLDS moves along at a good clip. The writing is crisp though prolix in the fashion of the ninteenth century. There are a few disconnected sentences missed by the editor's blue pen, essentially nicks in the fine surface of this very fine story. While not as well written as THE TIME MACHINE, WAR OF THE WORLDS grips the imagination more powerfully. This slim book has been the direct inspiration for a number of films and TV shows and several recorded versions, including Orson Welles' famous 1938 Mercury Theatre production, which caused widespread panic in the northeastern United States. Archetypal, WAR OF THE WORLDS has also indirectly influenced virtually every alien invasion movie and show ever created, from ALIEN to ZARDOZ. WAR OF THE WORLDS all but singlehandedly created its genre.      
