Like any good MAC enthusiast, as soon as a new operating system comes out, I get it. I know that there are always promises of more stability, faster running programs, etc. As a practical matter, I never notice the improvements, because my MAC always operates well. Of course, there are always the added benefits that any new software that comes out takes full advantage of the new and improved Operation System, and there is nothing like a smoking Photoshop experience.

That being said, I did notice a few differences with the new Tiger OS. Of course, there is now that cute little Dashboard that sits on my desktop. I can turn to it to find out where to get the lowest gas prices in my area (there are none) or to get my local weather forecast or get the lyrics to my favorite iTunes. But I know that there had to be so much more to Tiger, so for the first time, I decided to get a book to find out what else Tiger had to offer me. I picked Mac OS X Tiger Unleashed by John Ray and William C. Ray  (ISBN 0-672-32746-5) and I'm glad I did. The book is divided into easily identifiable subject matters, so that whether you are a beginning Mac OS X user or an advanced user, you know where to go. 

Mac OS X Tiger Unleashed starts by covering the most basic and useful applications and utilities that any Mac user will need to know. The writing style of John Ray and William C. Ray is easy to understand and comprehensive on each topic covered. Particularly useful for the beginner is the chapter dealing with accessing email. Chapter 3 walks you through importing mailboxes from any client and setting up your own preferences. Chapter 3 also walks you through the new and improved iChat. The authors have also taken the time to explain things which seem like they should be easy, but always leave the newbie scratching their head - things like the printer utility, managing fonts and setting up firewalls.

The last two thirds of the book are for the more intermediate and advanced users. The authors offer a comprehensive and easily understood introduction to the BSD Unix subsystem. I am not a longtime Unix user, so this introduction has been invaluable - they give a great deal of space to the basic Unix commands and then take you on from there, making the mastering of managing files and directories a snap. The authors then take you through more complex or advanced concepts, concepts which I am a little slower in learning. 

Finally, Mac OS X Tiger Unleashed deals with server side and network administration. Particularly useful to me was the chapter dealing with creating an FTP server. 

In all, I found this book to be highly comprehensive, extremely well organized and usually very easy to understand. Another great thing about this book, when you open it to any page, it stays open - very impressive given its 1500+ pages. 
