This book offers a rare and exciting framework for contemporary strategic thinking.
It draws on Sun Tzu's Art of War and the principles of manoeuvre warfare and has been applied to manufacturing, (Toyota Production System -TPS), design (Toyota Design System - TDS) and service industries (Southwest airline), just to quote a few. 
Although hinged on the Army-Corporation analogy, this book provides the small business owner with precious insights. It would be great to see the author develop the concept of the deployment of a bridge head, which is small and agile, with the choice of ground and time, and the assault on a niche market, typically the endeavour of small start-ups. These have limited resources compared with incumbents and the major daily occupation is often the implementation of a survival strategy and its swift adaptation to changes in circumstances. Successful entrepreneurs carry out the survival strategy within a higher-order strategy, serving their vision or dream, the equivalent of top management's grand strategy for the large corporation. Small companies, although worse funded, are more agile and capable of going through a number of OODA loops faster than larger organizations. The 'Observe' block of the OODA loop includes the reason why innovation and opportunity exploitation are the realm of small business: if you replace the 'unfolding circumstances' arrow with '-observed- set of fortunate circumstances' you get an insightful description of opportunity that small business owners become more readily aware of and very good at exploiting.
The creative effort implicit in the observation of fortunate sets of circumstances is also needed in the Ch'i part of every successful strategy, the unexpected, the magic aspect of a product, process or service. Ch'i is complemented by Cheng, the expected, the 'as advertised'. Ch'i and Cheng are a strategist's knobs and levers, together with the ability to lead an organisation through a number of OODA loops, conducive to the understanding of the nature of and the incessantly changing balance between the expected and the unexpected of its product/service offering. This results in consistently and systematically thwarting competitors.
One implementation of these concepts is Toyota's Production System. It is arguable whether Toyota is as successful in implementing its Design System, as there are no car models significantly more stylish and appealing than competitors', not even Lexus', Toyota's luxury brand.
Ch'i could be the only competitive weapon left to Western companies or entire sectors against China's ruthless competition. Italy's textile industry is on the verge of being washed away now that import barriers have been waved. The shoemaking industry has already fled to China and to other cheap labour countries, just as small and medium companies in light industry (nominally machinery), once the backbone and pride of Italy, are now doing.
Manufacturing in developed countries seems doomed, the only option left being to focus on engineering, design, creativity in general. Even Toyota, despite its Systems, appears to be armless against Chinese cost of labour.
Its newly launched effort (Nihon Keizai, January 05) aimed at bringing a new generation of robots into its Japanese assembly plants to take on complex tasks currently performed by cell workers looks like a desperate manoeuvre against this formidable threat that is cutting through Toyota's most valued success factor: its workforce imbued with Toyota's culture. Or it might just be Cheng software (Toyota's Way or culture) looking for Ch'i new hardware.
