When I first finished The Waste Lands and picked up Wizard and Glass, I was ultra-excited to continue on with the series.  Then I read that Wizard and Glass was basically one huge flashback about Roland's life before the Dark Tower became his sole motivation.  When I read that, I almost considered skipping the book entirely, and just reading a summary in the argument in the next book, but now I am really glad I didn't do that.

Wizard and Glass starts out immediately following where The Waste Lands left off.  Roland, Eddie, Susannah, and Jake are aboard Blaine the mono, and they are about to engage in a riddling battle to the death.  Blaine the mono is a really cool character, and I was a little sad to see his story cut short.  Once Blaine has been dealt with, the ka-tet arrives in a version of Topeka, Kansas that has been ravaged by the Superflu.  The ka-tet moves through the abandoned town and eventually starts to catch glimpses of a huge green palace in the distance.  But before they get there, the group palavers one night, and Roland tells them his story.

Roland's story is largely a romance between he and a girl he meets when he and his two friends (Cuthbert and Alain) are sent out west by Roland's father.  Roland and Susan fall in love with each other, but their love is forbidden, of course, and meanwhile, Roland is losing focus on what is really important in the Barony of Mejis.  There are a group of men trying to use the town's resources for John Farson, the Good Man, to wage war on the rest of the world.

Wizard and Glass is a very long, very in-depth love story at its heart.  Sure, it's got action and suspense and gore, but the meat of the novel is devoted to fleshing out Susan Delgado and the love she shares with Roland.  Obviously, she weighs on Roland's heart all the time, and King wants the reader to understand why.  In my opinion, the reason that the novel is so well done is because of King's patient writing style, and his ability to demand patience from his readers.  The whole book is basically a build-up to about 50 pages worth of climax, but still, once you get there, the previuos 400 pages are all worth it.

This novel, I can tell, is where the series might start to go off the deep end.  But that's ok.  The weird situation at the end is still exciting, and it makes you want more.  So as long as there are answers at the end of this, I'm loving the ride
