Many highly enthusiastic books have appeared on Transhumanism and the Singularity, a time when we become potentially immortal by modifying ourselves with advanced bio/nano technologies.  They mention only lightly the efforts of the Luddites to stop progress in the name of preserving humans as humans, and in the name of preventing dangerous science from being done, e.g., making nanobots that accidently turn the world into a gray goo.  

James Hughes's book gets down to Earth with a balanced treatment of the issues as they exist TODAY.  

In Citizen Cyborg, you learn that the Luddites are in force in universities, and in Bush crony appointments, and in powerful, worldwide organizations, and in the churches.  They put forth sweet, oily arguments against playing god without realizing how absurd they sound to someone with a brain.  But they are killers, often in the name of God, saying, essentially, science should not develop methods to cure, say, fatal childhood diseases.  God's will is that the kids die.  Thankfully, science has progressed. The death sentence of childhood leukemia 50 years ago is almost vanquished today.  But beware: the Luddites are out in force trying to kill today's state-of-the-art sciences.

Of course, Hughes also points out the dangers of advanced bio/nano technology.  When only the richest rich can afford to produce genetically modified offspring with 150 IQs, will the rest of us fall off the evolutionary ladder?  Here Hughes convincingly argues for what he calls the creation of a Super Democracy to make sure we all benefit.

These are just some of the main points of Citizen Cyborg, which comes with many references to back up its points.  I strongly recommend it, and I thank author James (Jay) Hughes for having interviewed me on his radio show Changesurfer radio program about my own scifi book.  Beyond Future Shock (ISBN 1419609440) treats the promises and perils of advanced bio/nano technologies in an age when science is under assault by religion (Intelligent Design) and Luddites worldwide.  (Look for a Price Drop soon.)  

Finally I recommend that you visit the author's web site at Changesurfer Radio.  It is filled with very interesting interviews on transhumanity that you can listen to or download from 1998 thru today.

Ale
