If Thomas Frank wondered in his book "What's The Matter With Kansas?" why a formerly populist state such as Kansas became a red state, he may also be wondering why a red state such as North Dakota could elect a populist like Byron Dorgan for six terms to the House and three terms to the Senate.  It could very well be that, aside from being a skilled debater, he has a talent for stating the issues clearly and forcefully.  In his latest book, he takes on the Washington consensus on "free trade."

When asked why populists such as himself have been losing in their fight for fair trade, he replies that "the other side has stolen the language." (This is the same argument George Lakoff makes in "Whose Freedom.")  Dorgan argues that the free trade pacts are neither free nor fair; they were written by corporate lobbyists who write into them many protections for their corporate clients and none for ordinary citizens.  Many Democrats have also signed onto these trade pacts, not only for fear of being labelled anti-business or protectionist, but because these corporations provide large campaign contributions.

No country practices free trade - the US included.  Every country has some form of managed trade.  Conservatives, of course, cannot argue for managed trade, not only for ideological reasons, but for their cynicism of governments ability to do the job.  For this reason free trade has not been working.  Free trade, as it is practised today means corporations can transfer capital and technology anywhere in the world, employ cheap labor to build their products and ship them back to the US.  This is greatly contributing to the $700 to $800 billion annual trade deficit and it is decimating our labor force.  With these trade figures one would become cynical about leaving management of the world economy to multinational corporations.

For all his populist sloganeering about corporate greed, Dorgan understands that multinationals are politically neutral and designed to maximize profits.  It is for the "brain-dead politics" that he vents most of his anger.  Dorgan argues that it is up to the US government to create free and fair trade policies that will raise labor and environmental standards worldwide.  Instead of having the American worker compete with foreign workers who are paid $.50 an hour, we should be raising the bar for countries and our own corporations who are exporting to the US.  

Dorgan has a long list of policy recommendations designed to reverse the trade deficit: some of which are reasonable and others which are futile.  We need a fair trade plan (as opposed to the current auto pilot); we need to look at the idea of import certificates (suggested by Warren Buffet); we need to design a tax system to keep American jobs from going offshore; and we need to consolidate the 17 agencies dealing with trade into one.  The futile includes having Congress set ever higher ceilings on trade deficits, which is what they do for the national debt, and which serves no useful purpose.

Dorgan is correct that action must be taken, another decade of the current deficits will force us to sell off large pieces of our wealth - the American worker included - and it will create a vicious circle of downward pressure on our standard of living.  Conservative and neoliberal critics are a bit naive if they think the invisible hand will magically rectify the current imbalances because other countries have created export oriented economies that are designed to habitually run surpluses.  As more people become disenchanted with gobalization in its current form, Dorgan will be sure to gain a wider audience
