Ellsbers's book is a grim confession of a disinformation officer in the line of dutifully committing a crime against humanity.  Media manipulation of violent conflict today, the attempt to fool the American population ad nauseum is even worse and far more entrenched today.

I noticed on the cover of this book, (A xerox of a de-classified document from that era), something interesting:
"Responsibilities of the Office of Scientific Intelligence", dated 29 November 1951.  Just the name of such an office intrigued me, it is heavily blacked out and has multiple stamps on it:  "SECRET" and "NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION", AND "TOP SECRET", and "CONFIDENTIAL"...of course they are all crossed out.  It is known, as was also true of the Korean War, that US aggression has met with something of a rather cosmic disciplinary response.  This is in fact not God's country, or anything of such a ludicrously sanctimonious presumptiveness.  It is a tragedy in progress, rotted to the core.

For contrast, please read this actual FBI tip dated 8-2-06, after freak weather events in Norther Utah the morning of 8-1-06.  It indicates a high probability of anomally and exotic weapons violations; add to that indications of similar reprisal for occurrances of public conscientiousness to indicate rampant insurgent civil war moves on the continent of many varieties:

FBI tip for Northern Utah Week 31 2006:

Evidence(s) of exotic weapons violations on U.S. domestic populations in North America:

1)	McGreggor murder, psych-inducement automism without polygraph detectable conscientious recall; fits national holiday sequenced heinous atrocity signal--July 24 SLC UT.
a)	Suspect denying charges.
b)	Law enforcement possibly claiming failed polygraph even were it inconclusive.
c)	McGreggor and wife's photos reveal prison inmate outfits, orange, possible effects of meth amphetamine deteriorating former marriage. Typical Anglo-age group crime-trap for profile.   Daughter given up for adoption, (taken away).
d)	Meth blocks the frontal neo-cortex lobes and leaves drug addict without inhibitions.  Crime is heinous and with further sympathetic aversion due to the fact McGreggor has a daughter.
e)	No reports of physical evidence, pending trial.
f)	Public anticipates, as usual:
i)	No psychological profile or exhaustive inventory of psych-inducement screens for:
(1)	Adverse stimulus :  television crime drama saturation, upwards of 30 hours per week, CBS crime show wave...providing a voyeuristic recreation vehicle (combined with drug ingestion) to seek vicarious criminal role taking fantasies while high.
(2)	Since meth is also the weapon's trigger, covering up its expansive prevalence in urban America leans on law enforcement to obfuscate and detour addressing its involvement as a trigger.
(3)	Behavior, articles in the home, literature of a sadistic torture nature, involvement in any sacrificial cults or the trappings of an occultists.
(4)	Testimony or examination revealing perpetrator's detailed descriptions of psych-phenomena, dreams, voices or other prompts to trigger the attack.
(5)	Public aware of psychological weapons of mass destruction, and those used to control a target, in the inventories of military and intelligence community.
(6)	Public aware of asymmetric warfare self inflictions to demoralize populations with induced heinous atrocities, as a method of quelling unrest or criticism of the government; and that they are often timed in synchronous event to the holidays.  The coincidence has occurred too often for a random pattern, and is believed to be a calling card to elicit fear and trepidations in the subconscious and to intimidate those in the military who know of such weapons systems capability.
ii)	Confederate flag draped behind family photograph of victim child, possible child-hiding ring through White supremists in region, with covert manipulation of all law enforcement similar to other for-media orchestrations.
iii)	Public accepting that the FBI is a ineffectual organization compromised by dissention in its administration and ranks along political lines and itself represents an obstructive (Bad cop) threat to national security; as well as being the active target internally for a program of asymmetric espionage to cripple or dismantle response to coordinations of terrorist acts of war on the United States mainland.

2)	August 1, 2006 alleged twin `super cell' storm disaster with local meteorologists contradicting storm characteristics inconsistent with observed phenomena.
a)	Patterns in Doppler radar at close scale reveal caustic impinging footprint of extrema in the organization of center of mass, i.e. concave four sided region aligned on transit trajectory and long elliptical soliton axis North and South.
i)	Indicates a backscattering Electromagnetic impeller applying the Backlund Transform to induce an atomospheric soliton entraining a moisture mass and Lorentz dynamic to mass destruction potentiation.
ii)	This is also called a `scalar weapon' in the vernacular and common rumor mill.
b)	Twin `'super-cell'' characteristic signature byproduct of projected soliton maxima, a major and a minor pulse; also a feature of Malvar Mexican Hat wavelet representation, indicating servo control response of attack-sustain-release in EM transponder array sequencing; (a truncated or half Mexican hat wavelet).
c)	Overall lack of a means of description and disbelief from the behavior of news meteorologists...a motivation in news programs to figure out `'what hit us?''...
i)	Theoretical conjecture contrasting tornadic winds versus microburst versus wind-shear..to no definitive resolution.
ii)	Conclusion indicating a super-cell thunderstorm, and so called `'straight-line'' winds inconsistent with models explained to the public:
(1)	The supercells of the American plains in tornado alley much larger and stationary or very slow velocities.
(2)	Horizontal or straight-line winds inconsistent with vertical motion of air and the vertical direction of rain and hail.
(3)	Wall of water phenomena to 40ft opacity reported moving horizontal..anomalously high concentration of organized moisture ..and momentum.. suggests artificial coalescing  entrained on the moisture, concentrating and impelling it, as in a scalar weapon manipulation...or other cause.
(4)	North of Salt Lake, no wind, steady rain, indicates the jet stream wasn't the cause of the momentum of the super cells.
(5)	`'large'' hail reports contradicted by news-video of hand picking up small hail, not even marble-sized, indicates cloud ceiling not substantial enough to circulate icy accretions of Super-cell expectation values.
d)	Coarse scale Doppler radar departures from supercell:
i)	No organized system rotation with characteristic bi-color division in vector field, going and coming; still weather news tried to describe its occurrence.
ii)	Traveling storm echos, both cells, described as `bow echos', as in bow and arrow...a somewhat boomerang shaped pattern evolution starting off as a more eccentric elliptical (long axis N-S) velocity (short axis E-W) and later edge damped drag to bend the elliptical envelope like a parabola as the storms transited East to West.
iii)	Indicates point of pinch focus boundary condition for Backlund Transform transponder programming terminus i.e. typical caustic emergent organization from manifolds of applied EM field, scalar impellers--Theramin transmitter rather than receiver...electro-inertial classified compartment..or hybrid technological offshoots through digital control revolution of power amplifier technology and modern semiconductor materials improving SNR, efficiency, and PWM resolution.
iv)	Soliton topometry in the literature is typically very similar, with major and minor maxima, when it is an artificially produced disturbance, i.e. lacking global normalization such as on a body of water.

e)	Anecdotes about scalar weapons in the media, see KRNS 570 AM radio interviews, talk of Hurricanes being stimulated and even guided by scalar weapons, including Katrina--New Orleans.
i)	Motion picture guise-propagandas:  `'The Core''--mega disasters lacking official attribution in a likely war breaking out with stealthy exotic weapons that dodge a direct connection to an aggression or act of war.
ii)	Book propagandas:  `'State of Fear'' M. Crichton.
iii)	CBS crime show wave, violent crime inducement network, putting on a show this fall about a nuclear device going off in North America, program labeled with more Bible Code bamboozle, i.e. `Jericho'.
iv)	The History Channel's Modern Marvels program featuring the bullet has a lost luggage claim on unnatural tripod item.

3)	Other possible scalar weapon event, Bengal '04 Tsunami.  Seismicity uncharacteristically high frequency mixture with overdamped decay profile, indicating a departure from natural critical-phenomena; or a massive input of energy.  Also timed to Christmas Eve.  Possible burrough sb-tn-ne viola.
4)	You can send me a check, but don't trust the Post Office.
5)	Daimler-Chrysler selling kraut out of bounds, please run movie:  The Marathon Man.

	Daimler-Chrysler selling kraut out of bounds, please run movie:  The Marathon Man.  Military  Ape-X trying to get away with roughhousing with its toys domestically (yet again)...requires brushing back.  The FBI has full authority to investigate, question and bring indictiments on behalf of the people of the United States, against the Department of Defense,or US non-aligned rogue splinter.

