Job 5:8 "But as for me, I would seek God,And I would place my cause before God."

Psalm 9:10 "And those who know Your name will put their trust in You,For You, O LORD, have not forsaken those who seek You."

Psalm 14:2 "The LORD has looked down from heaven upon the sons of menTo see if there are any who understand,Who seek after God."

Psalm 22:26b "Those who seek Him will praise the LORD Let your heart live forever!"

Psalm 70:4 "Let all who seek You rejoice and be glad in You;And let those who love Your salvation say continually,"Let God be magnified."

If you seek an ardent devotional life, if you want to have a life of prayer, if you are looking for a guide on how to dwelve in the Word and reap the benefits of the Bille's wisdom, than look no more.

Here is what I wrote my relatives and friends as a result of one morning's Bible reading of 2 Tim. 1:1-14 (suggested reading for that day).
"I'm not here to push this book, but I want to say that my spiritual walk with God, on a day to day basis, starting the day and ending the day, has been very enriched as a result of reading the Scripture passages, meditating on the excerpts from spiritual writings and poems, and praying, with the help of this devotional book."

The structure of the book is fairly simple.  Week by week (according to the Christian calendar).  Each week's daily devotions and texts are broken up in the following 8 categories: 
I. Invocation (written), 
II. One of the Psalms (as a prayerful reading material)
III. Reading for Reflection (various numbers of little excerpts from spiritual writing from the whole rich treasure chest of Christian history and from all various denominational and traditional Christian faiths),
IV. Daily Scripture Readings (Mon.-Sunday.; some of them are long  like a whole chapter; others very short)
V. Reflection: Silent and Written 
VI. Prayers: For the Church, for Others, and Myself (no prayers provided but one is asked to pray for these three areas)
VII. Hymn (written)
VIII. Benediction (written).

You will not be sorry you invested the money in this book.  The challenge is making the time to devote your life, heart, mind, soul to God and reap the benefits of your closeness to the divine.

Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox - friendly.  The authors come from the Methodist tradition but are very ecumenically minded
