Centuries in the future, a new mutation has appeared in the human species.  Known as the slans, this mutant group is physically stronger, smarter, and telekinetic via the tendrils that grow out of their hair.  They are also hunted down and killed on sight by the dictatorship of Keir Gray.  It seems, in the deep murky past, that the slans attempted to conquer the human race, and war began.  But slans still live among humans, hiding in plain sight.  One such slan is John Thomas "Jommy" Cross, who, after watching his parents' murder as a boy, is taken in by a greedy old woman, as he bides his time until he such time when he claim the inherited knowledge left by his father.  Another slan is Kathleen Layton, a ostensible science project in the custody of Keir Gray himself, but in fact a pawn in the chess game of the Gray dictatorship.

A.E. Van Vogt's "Slan" is a historical piece of science fiction.  It's easy to trace numerous concepts back to "Slan" (e.g. Marvel Comics "X-Men").  It is also an interesting allegory on human nature and the theme of "Man's inhumanity to man."  It's probably no coincidence that this book was published in 1946, when WW II was over, and the genocide that it entailed was known.  However, much like its contemporaries, "Slan" frequently falls victim to the conventions of science fiction of the time, and so a reader will almost certainly feel star-crossed.

Initially, Van Vogt starts his novel on a thrill, as Jommy is on the run from the humans.  Images of a boy of nine running for his life, surrounded by hatred and greed and fear are chilling and gripping.  Alternatively, Kathleen's observations of an attempted coup against Gray, and Gray's violent response, while perhaps not so frenzied as a chase, are however just as engrossing.  

However, after initial rush, the pace slackens considerably, as Jommy lives a life as a thief, biding his time.  While Van Vogt piques our curiosity with the revelation of slans who are not telekinetic, he spends a good deal of time with a contemplative Jommy, spectacularly loquacious secondary characters, and progressively neglected and underdeveloped Kathleen.  

It certainly doesn't help that Van Vogt injects several dozen mysteries into his book without ever satisfactorily dealing with any of them.  Are the slans really evil?  How did the come to be, and how did that cause the war?  What's the deal with the non-telekinetic slans?  Why does Keir Gray seem so intent on holding on to Kathleen?  What will Jommy do about any of it?  With so many plot lines to juggle, Van Vogt never seems to give any one of them satisfactory time to develop.  The end result is something of a disappointment.

While there is plenty to like about this book, I never felt completely satisfied with it.  It tantalizes, but only rarely gratifies.  It's historical value in the science-fiction is inarguable, and it's allegorical aspect is always important.  Unfortunately, it's aesthetic is never quite able to live up to its potential.  However, that doesn't diminish its value.  It's absolutely worth reading. 
