Disclaimer: this was the first-ever, and so far the only, "business novel" (as I call them), I have read. Hence my benchmark is not other books of the same genre, but literature in its broadest sense.

LTCM is the pieced-together tale of the now fabled company of the same name, when a monstrously high collective IQ led to a monstrously large debacle. I am not going to get into details of the story - let it suffice to say that this is a world-class Wall Street / high-stakes financial world thriller. (For more details on the story, refer to the editorial reviews.) Instead, let me focus on the quality of the book and the emotions it evoked.

This book is a top-notch thriller - there's just no other way to describe it. It's comparable in its speed, ability to engage, and narrative style to any of the best books of the pulp fiction genre, without actually belonging to it. What amazed me the most after I finished the book was that it had not yet been made into a mammoth-star-cast-large-budget Hollywood film, because it's really begging for that. (If there are any plans in the offing or the movie is already being made, then I apologize for my ignorance.) The book builds up the story of LTCM really well, and despite the fact that one is aware throughout of how it's going to end, the book remains completely engrossing. Lowenstein refrains from getting very technical, and keeps the book well within the reach of financial dummies like me. He does especially well do flesh out the characters, allowing one to really love, hate, or get exasperated with their antics.

On the reactionary side, the book brings back, and reinforces, any and all ideas you had about Wall Street being a preposterous game (not to mention the world's biggest mutual appeasement-based trading racket). The money being made here, and lost, is completely unreal, and ridiculous. To quote an example from this book, LTCM made total profits of US2.1 billion in 1996, more than McDonald's made selling hamburgers globally, more than Amex, more than Sears, Nike, Gillette - the list goes on. When a group of 100 people, who create nothing, and yet make more money than hundreds of thousands of people making "real" goods and providing "real" services, there's something seriously out of whack. (And really, I am one of those who value intelligence tremendously.) So, this might sound like I am digressing from the book, but I'm actually not, for the point was to illustrate the kind of reactions this book can evoke. (Well ok, I did digress a bit, but my intent was still to illustrate my emotions.)

All in all, it's totally worth reading. And much as I hate the mutilation good books suffer at the hands of Hollywood, I can't wait for this one to be converted!

