Ann Sothern was asked years ago if she had a preference regarding a biographer.  She immediately responded with the name of Colin Briggs.  This is precisely what came to pass to the benefit of all concerned, and notably film fans.

The blonde actress met Briggs years ago and they had a professional relationship as well as an enduring friendship.  They sang together and Sothern was impressed enough to tell Briggs, who resided in Brisbane, Australia, that if he ever decided to reside in the United States that she would like to help him with his singing career.

Briggs, whose encyclopedic knowledge of cinema resulted in him frequently appearing on Australian television to entertain audiences with his broad command of the industry, was an accomplished singer as well as actor and both appeared in and directed many stage vehicles in Australia.  

Ann Sothern was a performer of exceptional versatility as well as beauty and Briggs is to be commended for sharing his vast knowledge of her long and accomplished career with the rest of us.  

Marsha Hunt was on target in stating that Sothern had one of the most beautiful faces of any actress to grace the screen.  Her blonde hair and flawless creamy complexion were capped off by a face of cameo elegance, the perfection of which was enhanced by cinematic photography.  

Perhaps the standout scene of Sothern's career, which combined her singing and acting talents, as well as accenting her natural beauty, came in "Lady be Good" when she sang "The Last Time I Saw Paris" with Champs Elysees superimposed in the background.  

Comedy came naturally to Ann Sothern, but whereas so many blonde performers were depicted for zaniness, she came across as a wise Eve Arden type without the acid commentary.  Sothern's image was that of a crafty woman who knew the score.  She established that image early on in the highly successful "Maisie" series, in which her character took charge and saved the day.

How shrewd Ann Sothern was in films directed by two of the all-time cinema greats.  In 1949 audiences were impressed by her performance in Joseph Mankiewicz's "A Letter to Three Wives" in which she played Kirk Douglas's wife.  Her native intelligence was needed to prevent a disaster when her highly unsophisticated bosses, a materialistic couple concerned about selling products, visit her suburban Connecticut home for dinner.

The situation calls for great tact for another reason as well.  As a successful radio soap opera writer Sothern earns much more money than her schoolteacher husband, whose erudition and education prompt him to view the outsiders with great scorn.  Ann Sothern acts with finesse, avoiding the disaster of a blowup and loss of a job that pays a large income.

Sothern's pragmatic intelligence was also on display in Fritz Lang's 1953 film noir gem "The Blue Gardenia," when she serves as first sergeant at the apartment she shares with younger fellow telephone operators Anne Baxter and Jeff Donnell.  She offers experienced advice when Baxter needs it at a time when she is accused of killing wolfish artist Raymond Burr.

Then there was the Ann Sothern who triumphed in the peak early years of television with her comedy smash hit "Private Secretary" which latter was called "The Ann Sothern Show."  It was a good period for her professionally as she also sang in nightclubs, including stints in Las Vegas.

Sothern longtime friend Colin Briggs does an excellent job of providing an intimate glimpse into the life of a remarkable performer.     



