Daniel Goleman has written an interesting book about the physiological and social consequences of emotions and our ability to control them.  He makes a convincing case for emotional competence as perhaps a greater prerequisite for success than intellectual brilliance.  Many of us can probably corroborate this for ourselves by recalling very intelligent people we have known who have a tendency to sabotage themselves through their inability to deal with other people appropriately.

For me, the sections of the book that described the physiology of emotions--the role of the amygdala and limbic system and the neural pathways that allow "emotional hijackings"--were most fascinating.  Likewise, I was captivated by the descriptions of psychological studies of emotional competency, such as the one that showed that a child's ability to control impulses at age four was a greater indicator of later success on SAT exams than any other single factor.

I remove a star because some of the later sections read like more conventional self-help books.  I was also skeptical of Goleman's proposal that schools step in and teach emotional competency through curricula such as self-science.  As a public school teacher who has had first-hand experience of school efforts to teach self-control and anger management to students with behavioral issues, I believe that public schools are not equipped to do this effectively.  The horrendous home situations of these students are, in many cases, just too pervasive and all-encompassing in a student's life to resist.  What's the alternative, since it is unrealistic to expect the families of these children to change their behavior?  Give up?  Obviously, that is also unacceptable.  However, as long as the federal government is breathing down the necks of public schools with unrealistic expectations and punishments at the ready, don't expect schools to stray far from any subject matter that is not rigourously standards-based and measureable on a standardized test
