Jonathan Kellerman was born in New York City in 1949 and grew up in Los Angeles. A qualified psycologist, his first novel -"When The Bough Breaks"- was published in 1985. Kellerman has won a variety of awards - including won the Edgar Allan Poe and Anthony Boucher Awards. Jonathan is married to bestselling novelist Faye Kellerman and they have four children. "Flesh and Blood" was published in 2001 and is Kellerman's 15th book to star Alex Delaware.
 
Alex's involvement with this case begins when the mother of a former patient contacts him for help. Jane Abbot, the mother, had tried to arrange some therapy for her daughter, Lauren, about ten years previously. Despite the passage of time, Jane's new name (she had subsequently remarried) and the fact that Lauren only came twice, Alex remembered Lauren clearly. When Jane calls, however, it's not with good news : Lauren, now studying Psycology at university, has been missing for over a week. Alex's work with the courts and the police has made him a minor celebrity and, Jane hopes, given Alex's brief history with her daughter he might be able to speed up the LAPD's search for Lauren. Alex agrees to do what he can, but doesn't mention that his main contact - Milo Sturgis - is actually a homicide detective. Milo, in turn, agrees to give things a slight push with Missing Persons.
 
Unfortunately, Missing Persons initially aren't in any rush to start looking when it becomes clear that Lauren had a police record for prostitution. Alex wasn't too surprised - several years earlier after their last appointment, Lauren had turned up to provide the 'entertainment' at a bachelor party he'd been invited to. Before long, however, Lauren's case falls right into Milo's lap when her body is found on Sepulveda. The subsequent investigation throws up a number of interesting names. They include Gretchen Stengel (the one-time head of a small army of prostitutes), Ben Dugger (a psychologist who specialises in market research) and - most interestingly) Tony Duke (the old but exceptionally rich owner of a top-shelf magazine). It also brings to light the case of Shawna Yeager, another university student who'd disappeared the previous year. Although no body was ever found, both cases show certain similarities - enough for Alex to believe the cases may be linked. 
 
I did enjoy "Flesh and Blood", though it's not without its flaws. The investigation into Lauren's disappearance and murder was carried out nearly single-handedly by Alex - which isn't that surprising, given that he is the book's hero. However, there didn't seem to be any method in what he did - much of what he discovered came as the result of blind luck and wild hunches miraculously proving right. Milo left me feeling very puzzled : a homicide detective making a minimal contribution to one of his own cases and showing little apparent regard for the safety of someone he seems to consider a friend. By the time I finished the book, I couldn't think of him without an image of Chief Wiggum popping into my head. Nevertheless, while I wouldn't call it a classic, it is an easily read book
