British journalist Michael Munn does a good job at delving into the core of a remarkable man, the motion picture legend we call "the Duke."  Some people have criticized John Wayne over the years for not acting, but Wayne carefully crafted and honed his Duke persona to give his audiences something they could take with them, especially during the grim days of World War II.  Wayne wanted to enlist, but he was a man of his word and under contract.  Instead, he boosted morale through his films.

John Wayne embodied the spirit of the rugged American.  He was a man's man who never backed down from a fight, on or off screen.  And yet, he showed a flexibility and tolerance with actors who marched to a different drum.  Kirk Douglas and Rock Hudson are examples of men whose politics and lifestyle, respectively, John Wayne disagreed with very strongly.  But Wayne respected their acting credentials and for him that was the decisive factor.  Wayne was a true acting professional and a man of passion who could project himself as larger than life.

Munn captures all of this and more.  Where he goes astray, perhaps, is with his curious anecdote about Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin wanting to kill the Duke.  Surely as cunning a player on the world stage as Stalin would never have risked an international incident, or even war, by having John Wayne assassinated.  I'm not sure of the source Munn used, but it could be of the "red herring" variety.  This jazz about the Duke getting the scoop from Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev, Stalin's wily successor who admittedly did his share of de-Stalinizing, is far-fetched.  Yet, it all adds to the mystique.

This book was an easy read and I liked pouring through it.  One has to be aware, however, that John Wayne was no saint.  He caroused with women while letting his marriages fall apart, he drank hard, and he used salty language.  Munn quotes Wayne and his circle of friends verbatim, especially when director John Ford was among them, so be forewarned that there is profanity in this book.  In the end, Munn's take on the Duke leaves you feeling like you almost knew him, and that is good.  Rev. Dennis J. Mercieri, alumnus of Holy Apostles Seminar
