...swipe from the best, and Heinlein certainly did here, lifting his plot from Anthony Hope (hodgeson)'s classic swashbuckler "The Prisoner of Zenda".

The interesting things about this book (which is NOT one of RAH's juveniles) that at first appear to set it apart from the majority of Heinlein's output are all characteristics of the narrator, Lorenzo.

Lorenzo is a xenophobe, an unheard-of trait for a Heinlein protagonist.

Lorenzo is completely incompetent at mathematics -- while RAH (through the mouthpiece of Lazarus Long) has opined that no-one is truly human who cannot understand higher mathematics.

Lorenzo is completely uninterested in politics or anything having to do with government, except as he personally may find himself interacting with law enforcement officials.

Lorenzo presents himself as something of a coward.

And Lorenzo is a raving egomaniac.

But Lorenzo learns to deal with his fear of Martians.

He never does learn math, but we gradually come to recognise that Heinlein has pulled a switch on us, and that Lorenzo is still our old friend, Heinlein's Competent Man -- but that his competency lies in another direction.

Because Lorenzo is recruited for the greatest challenge of an actor's career -- to impersonate, literally in front of entire worlds, an immensely famous politician, who has been kidnapped by his political enemies in order to derail an important treaty with  the inahbitants of Mars.

And, gradually, as Lorenzo comes to know the man he must replace -- know him from the inside out, and "become" him, to the point that he can extemporise politically sound speeches in the Great Man's style -- that he begins to understand that politics is all-important in making it possible for the masses to live in peace and security, Lorenzo Grows Up.

The Lorenzo we meet on Page One is a cheerful, flippant, shallow and actually fairly immature man.  The Lorenzo we see by the end of the story proper has matured, seen some of the wrongs that need righting, and has realised that someone has to step up to the line and take a stand or the wrongs will simply continue; that all that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.

And that is what the story is about, really -- like RAH's juvenile, "Starman Jones", this is mostly a story about a man growing up and accepting a man's role and responsibilities.

And, as the much-older Lorenzo adds as a short coda at the very end of the book, learning the important thing about the faceless masses, the thing that so many politicians lose sight of -- that they have lives of their own.

That they can hurt.

(At least one previous review has alluded to the excerpts from Bonforte's speeches -- i strongly suspect that, as the character of Bonforte himself seems to be by the man, they are heavily influenced or inspired by the oratory of Winston Churchill.  Particularly, when i read the passage about choosing sides, i hear Winnie's voice in my head...
