This is a good  scientific book that is based on time traveling. In this book there is the time traveler and the narrator. The narrator take the lead roll when the book is talking about the meetings the time traveler has at his house. As the story starts out, the time traveler creates a miniature time machine that disappears in front of the narrator and the guests. When the time traveler goes into the future with his time machine, he stops in the year 802,702 AD. He sees the small, robbed creatures that are called Eloi. At first he tries to learn their language, but they get bored and go away. As he is discovering the land, the other creatures, Morlocks, stole his time machine and put it in the Sphinx statue. When he discovers his time machine is missing, he panics and scares the Eloi. Then on his adventure of discovering the land again he comes across wells and quickly learns that there are creatures down there. Before he enters the wells, he saves an Eloi from the river. This Eloi's name is Weena. The time traveler figures out the Eloi are scared of the dark because the Morlocks attack them in the dark. After the time traveler goes into the wells and scares the Morlocks with fire, he returns to the land and runs away to a safe place, Palace of Green Poreclain. with Weena. When he discovers that the Palace of Green Poreclain is a museum, he gets flammable substance and matches, which are not around in this time. On there way back to the Sphinx statue he and Weena are attacked by the Morlocks. The time traveler sets a small fire to keep them safe, which inturns creates a large forest fire. During the forest fire the Morlocks take Weena, so the time traveler follows them in hope to find safety and Weena. When he gets back to the Sphinx he finds that the door is open so he goes in and the Morlocks close the door so the time traveler can not escape. With the time machine right in front of his eyes he fights off the Morlocks and shoots into the future, where he discovers the end of time. As he goes back in time to tell his story he gets to his laboratory and forgets what happened to him. Then he tells everyone he will be back in a half an hour to gather evidence that he traveled he never comes back. Again I liked this book because it was easy to put your self with the time traveler and go through all of his experiences. 
