I adore Susannah and Trinny. I have 4 of their books (What Not to Wear, What Not to Wear For Any Occasion, What You Wear Can Change Your Life, and Trinny and Susannah Take on America), plus watched their TV show.

We were in a meeting last week, and the woman who was speaking was breaking nearly every rule in the book(s). It was so obvious, and had she known the "rules", it would have cost her no more money to pick out properly fitted clothes. Instead she wore awuful, clunky shoes, tapered, too-short pants, a turtleneck, horrible blazer, and had her hair up in a clip. Give her some pointy boots, long/boot-cut trousers, a jacket with appropriate lapel and buttons, ANYTHING other than a turtleneck, and let her hair down, she would have looked fabulous! No more work to look a 100 times better. It really is that easy.

If you are starting from the beginning, I suggest you start with the first What Not To Wear book that focuses on what to wear for your body shape. I would highly recommend What You Wear Can Change Your Life as a companion. Remember that Trinny and Susannah do not follow the trends like so many others. They believe that you should dress for your shape, and adapt trends to what flatters YOU. It is not a short-term fix. These are classic rules that will help you look fabulous for a very long time!

It starts with undergarments, and I love that they don't wear dainty little nothings under their clothes. We see how Susannah has shaped her body with the properly fitted undergarments, and it makes me feel better that I'm not the only one who needs tummy-tamers and butt-lifters! 

The color section confuses me a bit. This is the part that I'm still getting the hang of, and one of the reasons why I only gave it four stars out of five. None of their descriptions fit me exactly, so I'm not 100% sure. But only time will tell. It really is about practice, and playing with color.

The Culling section was OK. It really is common sense, but it is a good visual reminder of how we need to be more critical about what we let take up our precious closet space, and to be more realistic about what we will actually ever wear again. 

The Accessories secition is really great. I wish they had these in the first WN2W book! They cover purses, shoes, jewelry, scarves, and belts. 

I also enjoy the Storage, Traveling, and Pregnancy chapters. I'm looking for a new armoire/wardrobe, and I'm going to incorporate some of their suggestions when I re-organize. 

I hope you enjoy reading these books and incorporating their suggestions into your life as much as I have. When I finally began dressing to my shape, I instantly began getting compliments. I never wore much jewelry before, and now people are always asking me where I purchased them. It may sound frivilous, but there is so much negativity in our lives, that it is nice to feel good about something. It gives you a lift, and does indeed change your life in many small, and large ways. 
