I have been a buyer on ebay for a couple of years and would like to get started selling.  Due to a combination of procrastination and lack of confidence I have not yet taken the leap.  Well, now I have the confidence to try.  All of my lingering questions were answered by this book.  It doesn't walk you through getting started, that would be a waste since that info is available from so many other sources.  But it does address things like determining when to start and finish an auction, how long to set the auction for, when to use Buy it Now or set reserve prices, etc.  

The author has a really great writing style- not cutesy or gimmicky and very readable. (I read the book in one day- I should have been sleeping, but I couldn't put it down.)  He gives great examples of different scenarios that help the reader to be better able apply the information.  He tells us his opinion and the opinions of others- he does not bash ebay or paypal but he does give honest observations of some of their practices and services -whether good or bad or simply necessary.  I have read alot of informational type books on various subjects lately and reading this one was a really refreshing change of pace.  Mr. Busch wrote with confidence but there was nothing self-congratulatory about his style  at all- he was even charmingly self-deprecating at times (but not cutesy- I hate that!)  The book has very straight forward advice and doesn't waste time trying to hype one way of doing things over another.  

Mr. Busch's personal business style is also very appealing and one that I would be happy to emulate.  As a buyer, I wish more sellers would follow his example.  As a buyer I have often wondered if it was really necessary to put all of those terms and conditions and warnings in the auction- I thought there must just be a ton of bad buyers out there to warrant such practice- but now I know differently.  I also find it extremely annoying when I encounter animation or overly busy backgrounds and - worst of all- sound and music when I view an auction. 

This book would be great for anyone- there are great tips for buyers- a couple that I will definitely put into use.  I would recommend that a person get a little bit of experience on ebay as a buyer before reading this book- then you will really know what is being described and it will have more meaning because you can apply it to your own experiences.  A few transactions would really be all it takes.  But definitely get this book!!
