The Shining, by Stephen King, is a riveting novel set in the beautiful state of Colorado. The book's main focus is the Overlook Hotel, a grand estate that is more or less in solitude, just shy of the nearby town of Sidewinder. During season it is a lively place that entertains the most prestigious of guests and echoes the ancient memories of a time long forgotten. During the cold winter months however, the hotel becomes a lonely, isolated mass that must be looked after and attended to by a single caretaker. This position falls into the hands of the capable Jack Torrance, who must care for the Overlook all winter long and ultimately chooses to bring his wife Wendy and small son Danny along with him. Little do they know that their son has a special power otherwise known as the Shine. It is a gift as well as a curse, allowing Danny to see things and know things that no one else could ever imagine. That winter as the great oak doors of the Overlook are closed, Danny acquires a strong sense of foreboding towards the hotel. As the falling snow begins to shut the Torrance family in, Danny's adventures throughout the hotel begin to unveil the real demons that lurk behind every corner of the haunted Overlook. It is then that countless visions and nightmares start to plague the young boy as the winter presses on and the hotel itself becomes alive, its demons slowly beginning to possess Danny's father. As the days pass by, Danny's nightmares begin to come true, and Jack and Wendy both begin to see the things that Danny could never have even begun to explain. The hotel however has chosen Jack to be its colleague in the murder of his wife and son. Will Danny's visions be enough to get both him and his mother out of the hotel alive? Or will the spirit of the hotel eventually swallow them up into the vast memories of its mysterious past? 
This book was a fast-paced and invigorating read that went by quickly despite its length of 683 pages. I chose this book because I saw the movie The Shining and really enjoyed it. The novel did live up to my expectations and left the reader in awe and wonder at the mysterious occurrences of the Overlook but not with returning nightmares from certain scenes. The character of Jack Torrance was very well developed but I had trouble believing that five year old Danny could go through any of the book's never-ending trauma and still live a normal life to tell the tale. My favorite part though was Stephen King's writing style throughout the book. It was very interesting because he would constantly take the reader aside and into the mind of various characters and the spirits within the Overlook. All in all The Shining was just what I expected it to be and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who liked the movie or is a fan of King's work.

