Most if not all of the facts of this book will not be new to John's fans.  Especially those who have read the eight-or-so books already written about or by him and his friends and family.  

And, title aside, it is not really a biography; it is an oral and pictorial history.  But that is its strength.  The voices of those friends & family come through, showing their love for the man.  

But the interesting thing is, as awesome as some of the stories may be (especially to those who haven't read them before); the pictures do an even more excellent job.

Some of the photos were previously seen in SAMURAI WIDOW and WIRED, but most are never before published.  And in them, you can see the buildup from Belushi's boyhood through the first three years of SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE.  Then the explosion when that show, ANIMAL HOUSE, and the Blues Brothers record all hit at the same time.  

And then the fallout.  Visually, I think you can mark the moment when the road turned hard for John; it's in a full-page picture, on page 172, of him in costume for 1941.  

It's in his eyes.  Look at most of the photos that precede this one, and there is a light in them, something that's growing, some kind of spark.  

And though it's probably too simple to say that Hollywood stunted that growth and killed that spark, it's also, probably, accurate.

Because in most of the post-1941 photos, that spark is gone, with only a brief resurgence in the pictures taken during the filming of CONTINENTAL DIVIDE.

This was apparently a happy (if not always fun) time for John, and the pictures reflect that.  Unfortunately, more so than the movie, which is enjoyable but instantly forgettable.

The key picture here for me is on page 222.  It shows Belushi wrapped in a blanket, sitting on some cabin steps in his stocking feet.  He's just sitting, and staring, and thinking of god knows what, but the image has an apparent vulnerability that the photogenic John rarely showed in pictures.  He was a man who always seems to have known where the camera was and how to keep its eye on him.  Not here.  

But CONTINENTAL DIVIDE flopped, and in the photos that follow, he mostly looks wasted.  I don't mean that with the drug connotation, I mean that spark was being denied again.

A note at the end proclaims, "This book is not objective," and it isn't, so bully for them for admitting it.  It's an attempt to bring a loved one back to life by talking about him. 



