As I write this I see that there are already 24 reviews of this
book on Amazon, and I suppose yet another one isn't worth much.
But I liked the book and I'm motivated to write about it.

There was a period in the 20th century when civilization was
sliding into the depths of perhaps the worst horror that had been
seen in centuries.  Fascism was triumphant throughout most of the
continent of Europe and Stalinist communism in the rest.  Maniacs
and thugs ruled from the Atlantic to the Pacific, across the
greatest land mass in the world.

Furst is sensitive to this horrible world in a way that most
World War II adventure writers are not.  He peers into its
shadiest, most obscure corners in Yugoslavia, Roumania and
Bulgaria.  He presents us with a view of isolated, alienated
intellectuals, trying to find some way to believe that ordinary
life is still possible in Paris, in Bucharest, in Belgrade, or in
Istanbul, while others try to find some way to strike a blow
against the Nazis, knowing that it is futile.

The critics of this book are right.  It is slow moving.  It is
not a thriller in the conventional sense of that term.  The
characters are a little thin and the action patchy and not
entirely believable.  It is a rehash of people and themes that
Furst seems to write about compulsively.  And despite Furst's
obsessive focus on fascism, its true horrors - the Gestapo
torture chambers, the concentration camps, the blitzkrieg, the
expropriations, the beatings in the streets - are never actually
seen, only hinted at.

And yet, for all that, I liked it.  I liked that it brings the
forgotten Balkan scene into view.  I felt absorbed into its
atmosphere.  I felt the despair of the main characters, knowing
that they were pawns of higher powers, knowing that what they
were doing was near suicidal and doomed to failure, and yet
seeing no honorable way to get out of trying it.  I liked the
politics and the optimism it expressed.

Although Blood of Victory is a flawed novel, I found it worth
reading.  You may too
