This work is meant to debunk the movement of revisionist historians toward  laying the atrocities of American history at the feet of Christianity.   However, it performs a remarkable feat of thinking by not only attacking   revisionism but also going against many of the presuppositions of current  evangelical thought.  Keillor contends that history needs to be viewed in  terms of Christian eschatology (the study of the end times) in order to  have a purely &quot;Christian&quot; view of history.  This leads to fresh  interpretations on such events as the Columbian Encounter, inital American  forays into foreign policy at the turn of the 20th century, and the Cuban  Missile Crisis. At the same time he shows how amoral capitalism has aided  in the downfall of American society; a slide that is resemblant to the late  Francis A. Schaffer's &quot;line of dispair&quot;, which was first proposed  in Escape From Reason. Keillor's main weakness is that he does not utilize  the Bible in explaining points in his historical arguments, which is  obviously his basis as he is an evangelical christian.  The use of  Scripture would have been helpful in explaining such arguments as his  arguing against patriarchalism, feminism, and some of his finer points  against capitalism.  It would also give his arguments a point of reference  for evangelical readers. Overall, this is still an excellent and fresh  reading of American history.  There is no assumption that the USA was ever  a &quot;Christian nation,&quot;  nor is there any assumption that the  current state of affairs in the Religious Right is necessarily correct.   Indeed he takes the Religious Right to task for collaborating with amoral  capitalists for political gains, and for making political compromises that  need not be made.  To come to conclusions that differ both from the  revisionists and from evangelicals is no small feat of thinking.  Indeed it  is rather courageous.  It will be interesting to see how this work shapes  Christian scholarship in the next 20 years
