I finally finished this and I'm sad it's over. I can't call it 5-star worthy, because there are obvious flaws, but anyone who would take the time to read this, probably won't care about it. (If you hated the film why on earth would you read the book, right?).

This is actually NOT Carradine's first book (see Endless Highway, which is unfortunately out of print) and since I just started reading it, I can't say which I prefer, but Carradine's friendly narrative is what draws you in and keeps you reading even when the story flags. Like any journal there are some bits that maybe we could have lived without (much to much family stuff, but hey they sound great, so why not go on and on about them?) and of course his experience on Kill Bill was limited to the time he was involved.

This is certainly NOT a complete Making of Kill Bill.  It's budget prohibited David being on the set except when he was needed so there are definite gaps in the "movie" story.  This is more than made up for with Carradine's letters to Tarantino, dozens of "insider" details about his time on the set, his hope that this will revitalize his career and much more.  Carradine is a fascianting dude.  This more than comes across in the story!

The one thing I kept thinking throughout the story and even more so now as I see a cheesy tv commercial featuring Carradine, is that unlike John Travolta, Kill Bill did NOT revitalize Carradine's career in the same way.  He has been in very little of note since he made Kill Bill. I'm glad he's working, but what happen to the "Tarantino Revitalization"?

This is a somewhat sad footnote to the story that leaves me curious.  Bill "was" a career making performance and role.  Perhaps it is a continuation of the industry's slight of the film (no Oscar nominations, mixed reviews, no respect, darn it).  Very little was made of Uma Thurman's brilliant performance (even more of an Oscar slight in years when very few female performances were Oscar-worthy).  Is the industry jealous of Tarantino?  Was this there chance to exact a little revenge on the bad boy outsider?

But I'll get off my tangent for now (it was afterall inspired by Carradine's optimism).  To sum up:  Read It!  It's fun.  It's gossipy.  It's insightful. It's never boring!  Some great color photos round out the text.  Let's hope that Carradine is still acting and writing for some time.  Thanks to Tarantino for making it all possible.  And how about reprinting "Endless Highway" someone, anyone
