Everyone knows the stories of Snow White, Prince Charming, the three little pigs and the big bad wolf, Little Boy Blue, Beauty and the Beast, as well as the numerous characters named Jack.  Their stories are a part of timeless children's literature that has been told and retold numerous times, but usually, things end happily ever after.  But what happened next?  Bill Willingham's Fables is an entertaining look at these characters after the ends of their stories.
The characters from these stories exist in their own magical homeworlds, or at least they did until a being known only as The Adversary came and conquored the lands, one by one.  It seems to parallel the advances of Hitler and Nazi Germany (wait until the fourth issue when they reference the attitudes when Oz and Narnia are taken over, and you'll see what I mean).  Now, these seemingly immortal characters have been forced to relocate to a mundane world filled with mundane people (referred to as mundies).  That world is ours.  The characters have set up a neighborhood in New York City known as Fabletown as well as a camp in upstate New York known as The Farm, which is where characters who cannot pass for human reside.  A government has been set up, with Old King Cole as the Mayor, Snow White as his deputy, Boy Blue as Snow White's assistant, and Bigby Wolf (the Big Bad Wolf, who has gained the ability to take human form, and somewhat resembles Wolverine) as the sheriff.  Other characters we meet include Jack of the Tales, an amalgam of every character named Jack, who is a scheming jerk, Prince Charming, a sleazy, womanizing moocher, and Bluebeard, one of the few fables to retain his riches after being exiled from the homeworlds.
This first story arc is a murder mystery about the death of Snow White's sister Rose Red.  Rose is the polar opposite of Snow; she is a partier who lives without responsibility, and seems to enjoy embarassing her sister, who, as deputy mayor, usually can't afford being affiliated with Rose.  With the annual Remembrance Day Festival fast approaching, Snow White and King Cole need Bigby Wolf to find the killer before the celebration.  The investigation opens old wounds for Snow White, as she learns of Rose's promiscuity and is forced to reconfront her ex-husband who may have a reason to have killed Rose.
These first five issues are superb on their own, but they seem to foreshadow great events to come, as there are so many things that can be done using these characters.  Furthermore, numerous hints are dropped as to how they plan to deal with The Adversary as well as the shakiness of their supposed safety.  Great things are very likely to come.
Another great thing about Fables is its wit and subversive nature.  These characters seem to be immortal, and the exile happened over 200 years ago.  In a scene involving Beauty and the Beast, who were supposed to be madly in love with each other by the end of their story, the Beast says that, despite how much he loves Beauty, there are bound to be some marital problems after so many hundreds of years of marriage.  Furthermore, there are some references to the land of Narnia that perfectly satirize the nature of C.S. Lewis' classic stories.
One thing that I have to warn you about is that this is a Vertigo book, meaning that things can get graphic.  Vertigo is a DC imprint that is like the R-rated department of the company.  There is hard cursing, violence, lots of blood, and even graphic drawings of sex (while there is no nudity in this book, I have heard that, in upcoming issues, nudity does become an issue).  This is not a comic book for children.
Fables is definitely a worthy read.  It is very entertaining and serves as a fun new way for adults to view these childhood classics
