Helen McGill is the narrator of the gently comic novel, "Parnassus On Wheels." The year is 1907, and middle-aged, overweight, Helen lives with her brother, Andrew. She was "slowly perishing as a conscientious governess" and Andrew was a businessman, when they decided to leave the city and buy Bog Hollow Farm with their joint savings. The first few years were spent toiling away happily, but then following the death of great-uncle Philip, they inherit a large quantity of books. Helen notes, sadly, that this "was the beginning of the end." Andrew begins toting a book along when he sets out on his farm work, and reading becomes a distraction. Then Andrew writes a book called "Paradise Regained" followed by the very successful "Happiness and Hayseed." Andrew becomes a literary success, and poor Helen is left with the labour of the farm whenever Andrew has "a literary fit" and leaves for "some vagabond jaunt" gathering material for his next book. Andrew is now a local celebrity known as "the Sage of Redfield," and Helen carries the burden of the farm. 

Then one day, the peculiar, idealistic and opinionated Roger Mifflin stops at the farm with the intention of selling a contraption--a horse and foldout wagon--to Andrew. This contraption, Roger calls his "caravan of culture", and it's stuffed full with books. Helen is so appalled at the notion that Andrew will be seduced by the books and take to the road, that she buys the wagon in order to prevent Andrew from buying it. But then an "extraordinary impulse seized" Helen, and in spite of the fact she's "severely practical by nature" Helen takes to the road as a book-seller with Roger teaching her the fundamentals of providing books--"salvation" for "stunted little minds."  

"Parnassus on Wheels" is a quaint, amusing slice of Americana. Helen's "revolt of womanhood" is told with an easy, natural style and a certain matter-of-factness. Helen feels that she is "a kind of animated bread-making and cake mixing machine" to her unappreciative brother, and so an impulsive escape attracts her long-dormant sense of adventure. While Helen professes not to be literary, her descriptions of the countryside she travels through are simple but stunning. "Parnassus on Wheels" provides a pleasant and droll afternoon's reading, and bibliophiles, in particular, should enjoy many a chuckle over these pages--displacedhuman    
