This book is an easy read, but is extremely thought provoking. Francis Fukuyama is one of few economists who is actually a clear and interesting writer. This book is important because, although first published in 1992, it has influenced U.S. Foreign and Defense policies into the 21st Century.  It is intellectually engaging because in it Fukuyama presents nothing less than a universal theory of human history.

 Interestingly, the philosophical basis for this theory comes from Fukuyama's interpretation of the writings of the early 19th Century German historicist and idealist philosopher, Friedich Hegel. Specifically, Fukuyama accepts Hegel's belief in the inevitability of dialectical progression in the development of human societies or to put it another way, historical determinism. Fukuyama uses Hegel's dialectical progression to explain the historical development of human society and attempts to show in several examples how internal contradictions invariably lead to social change. He also attempts to prove that any society that has eliminated internal contradictions represents in his words the `end of history' in the sense that no further social change will occur.

Rather controversially, Fukuyama maintains that those states (societies) that have established democratic political systems, free market economies, and the rule of law are entirely free from internal contradictions. They thus are at the top of the evolutionary chain and are at the end of history because they require no further social change. He further maintains that all states or societies aspire to this condition.  

Right or wrong, Fukuyama has significantly influenced  U.S. post Cold War strategic thinking and his characterization of those societies enjoying democratic government and free market economies have become for U.S. policy makers, the model that all societies should aspire to and emulate regardless of other factors. For a look at how this concept is influencing such things as U.S. Military Force Transformation read the unclassified version of a Rand Corporation paper titled "A Framework for Strategy Development" that was prepared for the Office of the Secretary of Defense in 2001 and is available through Amazon.com.    

