Unlike many other reviewers, I am only interested in military affairs, not a professional.  I definitely liked this book, at times.  

There are really 3 parts to it:

- Review of past Muslim/Middle Eastern tactics, mostly in Afghanistan.  There is excellent value in knowing what was done, just to avoid it happening to you.  Not all armies fight like Western armies, especially now.  Is all of it well presented and researched?  Not sure, but there are surely gems to be found in the case studies, such as the practice of attacks to lure reaction units out of their base, to attack them as they come out.

- Some speculations on who is behind the current unrest in Afghanistan and Iraq.  Iran is named at every turn, perhaps more than bombings against Shias in Iraq would seem to warrant.  But China too???  Shaky analysis here and perhaps of limited usefullness anyway.  Who cares, at the _tactical_ level, which is the book's reason for existence.

-  Suggestions and criticisms of current Western tactics.  

If our airforces regularly drop bombs on civilian houses to kill terrorists, do you think we have a moral high ground against someone who uses IEDs against our troops?  Poole doesn't think so.  Leaving asides the questions of ethics, killing enough civilians by mistake will drive other civilians to support the rebels.  Do it for long enough and you will suffer more casualties than if you had opted for riskier and more surgical tactics.  Besides you don't have to convince me of your moral superiority, you have to convince the Afghanis/Iraqis.  Yeah, Zarqawi got what he deserved that way, but after many mistaken bomb runs.  Those civilians deaths may not always make it to CNN, but you can bet they make AlJazeera's news.

Inability to foster and nurture innovation at the small unit level.  Reminds of a book I read about VC tunnels and US tactics.  The US tried everything - tear gas, sending men into the tunnels, etc...  The one real success story seems to have been a colonel who just parked his regiment on top of a tunnel complex and shot/captured anybody that came up over a period of days.  Unfortunately that tactic never came up on the Pentagon radar screen and  was never followed up.  Is there a process to capture tactical innovation?  This is similar to what Toyota did when it allowed assembly line workers to shut off production lines in case of failure and asked for their input.

Wrong equipment/training emphasis.  Face it, until/if China becomes an enemy (keeping fingers crossed that never happens), the US isn't looking at full army-to-army contests.  So soldiers need to know much more about policing, investigation and crowd control.  Soft skills and man to man combat, not just laser guided bombs.  Guerrilla wars will be won by who best provides relief to the civilian population, while neutralizing the other side's coercions.  Finally, winning will require moral leadership at the top level, to avoid line soldiers losing their moral compass in what is a much more stressful situation than any of us civilians can imagine.

Most worrying of all is Poole's warning that US/coalition forces are gradually withdrawing into fortified bases and control nothing much.  When they do come out, they use heavy AFVs and choppers and end up posing little risk to rebels as long as the rebels do not try to challenge them.  Canadian forces in Kandahar are now urgently asking for tactical transport helicopters to avoid IEDs.  Fine for attacking identified enemy locations, probably not so good at locating those enemies in the first place though.

All my best wishes to the troops out there, who deserve our support until our governments decide their mission is over.  If you don't like those wars, then change the governments
