Well well, 
 
 After reading some of the reviews on this page, I had to put one in for the good guys. I would like to point out to possible future readers that yes, this book contains all you need, and possibly more. Most of the 'practically useable' recipies for the popular (methyldioxy-)/ phenyl- amines are here. Most of the speeds , xtc's etc.etc.
 And that no, you don't need a chemistry degree to fabricate any or most of it. 
But anyways, as I was saying, the thinking part of the book is also it's weakest element. I was a little disappointed at the very chatty character of some (read: most) of his procedural reviews. The author is more often then not guessing about a bit, and frankly, I doubt he has done his homework on some of the reaction mechanisms. Which btw, shouldn't be an excuse for you not to do it either. Some of the stuff in the book probably has been tried ,since most of it works fairly well. On a side note, strike is a bit lazy when describing the lab work, e.g. forgets to mention small details here & there. (f.i. don't boil ether without adding a drop of peroxide inhibitor, small stuff like that) .But anyways, that's nit picking. I did have some reservations about the 'make it yourself equipment' section, particularly when it came to 'pressure bombs' .Personally I'd vote against that sort of thing. (Making welds that withstand corrosive chemicals under &#62;125bar & high temperature is a different cake if I may say so)
 
 So in short, lot's of useable recipies. And in fact some nice 'total synthesis' pathways, very nice collection indeed. Even if only for educational purposes. Cute hand drawn illustrations, (how come nobody mentioned those ? At first I thought strike was a girl bcs of all the drawings.) ;) . A very chatty unprofessional writing style, mixed with some incoherent speculative ramblings, that are better ignored. Unless read for entertainment purposes. Sloppy lab procedures in general, but then again, nothing to become to upset about. A bit of common sense would help a lot, I suppose. 
 
 All in all, for $35-, you could do (a lot) worse. Combine it with something from the good uncle Fester. His equipment sections are marginally better then Strike's .
 
 P.s. I to have come to understand Strike is locked up. So carefull carefull ! Seems the U.S. is the next Malaysia for druggies (or the next Paraguay for that matter). Best wishes for Strike. I hope he'll get through it
