There is an abundance of literature that covers U.S.-Iraqi relations since 2001.  Too many of the books are polemical in nature, of poor quality, and contribute to the dumbing down of the discussion about Iraq.  Fouad Ajami's latest book, however should be on the list of anyone wanting to develop a greater understanding of what's been happening in Iraq since the invasion.

Ajami made six trips to Iraq, taking extensive notes while talking to politicians, religious leaders, U.S. soldiers, and everyone else he encountered.  The Foreigner's Gift is the result of these trips and the conversations he had.  Parts of the book read like a travel diary that is personal in nature, while other parts have a broader scope.  Throughout the entire book though, is Ajami's interpretation of events as well as his own thoughts about the conflict.  He does not hide belief that removing Saddam was the right thing to do, nor does he hide candid remarks about the culture of victimization he sees in the Arab world.  He also discusses the problems that resulted from a Sunni government being removed for what will ultimately be a Shi'a government.  Rather than presenting opposition to the U.S. in terms of Bush's "unilateralism," Ajami identifies a clear sectarian nature to the Arab world's response.  This is one of the most convincing and well-argued takes on this issue that I have read to date.

Unfortunately the book is not without flaws.  The most noticeable is the book's organization.  The text appears in what seems like stream of consciousness, rather than following the path of a clear argument.  The book is somewhat difficult to read because it demands a very high level of attention from the reader.  It is easy to become lost in the text because there is no chronological ordering to it.  For someone with a fair amount of knowledge about Iraq, these problems are managable, but if you don't know much about Iraq before picking up this book you will most likely have a difficult time.

Another noticeable problem is the lack of discussion about the Kurds in Iraq.  Ajami does spend some time talking about the Kurds, but it pales in comparison to the amount of time devoted to the Shi'a and Arab Sunnis.  Since the book is a result of Ajami's own trips to Iraq, it is certainly possible that he simply didn't spend much time in Kurdistan.  However, I feel confident that Ajami has a great deal of knowledge about the Kurds and the picture presented in the book would have been more complete had he included it.

Even though Ajami does not present much in the way of policy recommendations, he has still presented a vital piece of the puzzle that is the U.S. experiment in Iraq.  Those with the patience and the interest will find Ajami's book to be quite valuable not only for the information he contributes to the existing literature, but for the way in which he challenges the reader to see the problem from a different perspective
