*contains spoilers*

Initially Anne portrays herself, or her character, as an utter victim, the book an endless string of complaints and grievances, and it's adorable. The vulnerability, sensitivity and naivete, however self-indulgent, held an unwavering grasp on my sympathies, and yielded a bunch of "i know that feeling. i don't think i've ever seen it depicted in fiction before, but i know that feeling" moments, mainly based on a paranoia of being judged harshly. The first of which being where, upon her impending arrival, she wishes the house "were a mile or two further off", and second being her concern for offending her host with her table manners. Where her sister's Wuthering Heights thrived on extrapolating an insight into social humanity to emotional extremes, Anne's Agnes Grey explores the mundane with equal revelatory impact in those few key moments. 
Unfortunately the initial sweetness and humility with which she presents herself quickly fades into entitlement. I flinched when she wished she could use corporal punishment to keep the children in line, and became increasingly alienated thenceforth, as she turned towards speculating of the increased power and responsibility she deemed she deserved, rather than illuminating the suffering she endured for want of fair treatment. She no longer feared being judged harshly, merely resented it, and resentment without action is something I can't admire, and in this case is less than interesting to read about. She begins more freely using derogatory adjectives, and while I'm sure the increasing contempt with which her pupils are portrayed is not undeserved, it betrays a lack of nurturing approach on her part which no doubt contributed to her pupils' contraryness toward her. 
Eventually her focus turns from wallowing in the contempt she feels for her environment to seeking respite from the oppression, and in her interest in Mr Weston to that end is where my sympathies to her return. The lonely-girl-with-a-crush story, and the embarassment with which she gradually unveils her infatuation, is adorably heartwarming/breaking. 
The informality of the portions where the author narrates her own thoughts about what she's writing with the reader in mind is refreshing, although she is perhaps more unreasonably harsh on herself for crushing on the man than anyone else ever otherwise is towards her character. Even in the romantic fantasy ending she allows herself (which is cheesy, yet still endearing), she remains coldly composed, not seeking to express the depth of her true feelings even under the impunity of a marriage proposal, making the ending equally happy and tragic in my perception, although I wonder whether the author intended tragedy to be implied.
