Shakespeare immortalized the fictional lovers Romeo and Juliet, but for historic doomed lovers, readers have always gone to the story of Heloise and Abelard.  The letters between them, written in twelfth century France, are flirtatious, intellectual, dramatic, tragic, and erotic.  The world for centuries has been fascinated by the eight letters exchanged by them when they were forced to be apart, but then a few years ago emerged a cache of letters they sent each other while they were also having passionate physical and intellectual exchanges.  James Burge has drawn upon the letters old and new to produce _Heloise & Abelard: A New Biography: (HarperSanFrancisco) which is a genial guide to the classic story, a thoughtful and affecting work that explains the times, religion, and politics of a vastly different age.  No American reader, however, will come away without thinking about the current influence of conservative or restrictive religious ideals, or of the continued desire of those in power to impose moral values.

In 1115 Abelard was 36 years old, a teacher of logic and master of the Cathedral School at Notre Dame in Paris.  Heloise was fifteen years younger when they met.  She was the niece of a local Parisian canon named Fulbert, and she came to the attention of Abelard because of her learning and her desire to learn.  She became Abelard's pupil, and then his mistress.  Even though they spent a lot of time in personal tutorials, they wrote letters to each other.  Abelard wrote, "Our desires left no stage of lovemaking untried, and if love could devise something new we welcomed it."  Heloise was consumed as well; this couple enjoyed their intellectual exchanges, enjoyed romance, but they really enjoyed sex.  At least one time they made love in the refectory of a church.  Years later, looking back on the torrid year and a half of their affair, Heloise wrote even as an abbess, "The lovers' pleasures that we enjoyed together were so sweet to me that they can never displease me."  When Fulbert found out about the affair, he threw Abelard out, and when Heloise became pregnant, he forced them to get married.  It would seem that Fulbert would have been satisfied with the outcome he had engineered, but he was still enraged at the loss of his family's honor, and perhaps at the loss of Heloise as well.  He sent his henchmen out to Abelard's house one night, and they castrated him.  Abelard became a monk and made Heloise become a nun.   

He preceded her in death, when his body was taken back to the crypt of the little church of Heloise's abbey, and she was eventually buried there as well.  The Paraclete did not survive the French Revolution, but the lovers' remains were brought back to Paris and became initial celebrity occupants of the newly formed Pére Lachaise cemetery.  It may be that the graves of Oscar Wilde and Jim Morrison get more visits there now, but the Gothic Revival monument of Abelard and Heloise does not lack for flowers brought by those captivated by a romantic and frankly sexual story.  Burge has been careful to set quotations from the letters in the circumstances of their times.  There are, sadly, huge gaps in the story, years we do not know about and thoughts that even these prolific pen-pals kept to themselves; Burge has always indicated when he is making suppositions.  He is particularly strong on church history and thought, especially contrasted with the words of Heloise who joined a religious to a sexual rapture.  There can be no doubt that these two were serious thinkers and soundly Christian, but theirs was a strikingly modern faith that could accommodate desire and eroticism. 
