Moreland and Craig have put together a very large work that systematically addresses fundamental issues in philosophy and philosophical theology from a Christian perspective.  Christians will benefit from mastering the arguments that are sketched in this fine book.  The real strength of this work is found in the clear explanations of the terms and arguments in the main fields of philosophy.  Some of the strongest points in the book include Moreland's and Craig's own specialities like philosophy of mind, universals, philosophy of time, and philosophy of religion.  Readers will learn the most from these sections.

I noticed a significant increase in the depth and breadth of argumentation that occurs in the final division of the book that delves into philosophical theology.  This final section may be the most difficult section for students to understand.  However, this final section may also be the most rewarding part of the whole book.  Even among those who have a fairly good mastery of philosophy will probably find the material in the final part of the book engaging and informative.

Unlike typical introductory textbooks, Craig and Moreland have taken an approach that argues for particular positions in each chapter.  In some ways, this is good for it provides some guidance for students who might be overwhelmed and perplexed amidst so many philosophies.  This might stifle some independent thought, though, among young Christian philosophers.  While I agree that libertarian free will, molinism, God's temporality, God's non-simplicity, and their analysis of the Trinity are all correct, it would be wrong for introductory students to get the impression that all Christian philosophers are (and must be) in agreement with Craig and Moreland on these controversial positions.  Nonetheless, it is refreshing to read philosophers who give a fair treatment of various philosophical positions, but who aren't afraid to tell you what they think, and back it up with convincing arguments.

Finally, as an introductory textbook it is deficient in communicating any sense of the history of philosophy.  I would encourage teachers who wish to use this textbook to supplement it with material that gives students proper instruction in the history of philosophy as well.

I recommend this book as a handy guide through the main positions and arguments in philosophy.  For the reasons I've noted above, I rate this as a very good introduction to philosophy, but it's not quite five stars
