Chandler is notorious for beautiful prose and muddled plots, but most of the blame can be attributed to his first novel from 1939: The Big Sleep. Not every Chandler plot is confusing. Here we have Chandler at his prime with his fourth novel from 1943 and it has both a nice plot and all the famous prose. If you read some other comments about the plot COVER YOUR EYES!!! Part of the fun of the present book is the good plot. The less you know the better, until you finish, and I will not spill the beans on the beautiful plot.

If you are new to Chandler, start with this novel or his second novel Farewell, My Lovely or perhaps the collection of four short stories from the 1930s: Trouble Is My Business. I bought all seven novels and two books of short stories - The Simple Art of Murder is his other collection of short stories - and consider the nine books to be mini-treasures. Of course, his first novel The Big Sleep is his most famous novel, made famous by the Warner's movie starring Bogart and Bacall, but the plot leaves one's head spinning. 

When Chandler was starting out as a writer, he had little money and was forced to live in very cheap housing in Santa Monica. There he saw the rampant police and city corruption in action where the powerful and the wealthy controlled the city. This was at odds with the citizen's perception that the city was law abiding, proper, and conservative. He uses that experience here as a partial theme of the novel, but he calls the town his fictional name of Bay City instead of Santa Monica. It is an extension of his earlier short story writing and his second novel Farewell, My Lovely. Detective Marlowe has his office in west LA - that is in Hollywood - and he seems to drift back and forth between LA and Bay City in many Chandler novels and short stories.

Now that he is famous as a writer, and moved out of Santa Monica in late 1940, he seems to pull out all the stops and hits Bay City police broadside with this present 1943 novel that involves some out of control police. This Chandler novel contains many of the elements of his famous "film noir" period, noir being the reference to police and civic corruption, a lawlessness in Los Angeles based detective stories that often reflected real news crime stories. As I mentioned briefly, the plot involves Santa Monica, i.e.: Bay City, but also it moves off into the countryside near where Chandler himself lived briefly in 1940, and there are a few chapters set in the mountains, but that is just part of the novel.

Like Chandler's other novels, it is one of the most beautifully written books ever published. The lines just flow and carry the reader along, seemingly effortlessly. The writing reminds me of some of Jack London's novels (1900) such as the Call of the Wild for the smoothness of the prose, but surprisingly Chandler might even be better and more refined. His technique was to pull old stories apart, then change them, then re-write them as short stories, and then take that work and extend it , modify it again a second or third time or even more, and finally put together complete novels. There is a high level of refinement and style that he was able to develop as a result of this writing process. This technique is not new. Shakespeare himself used this technique in virtually every play, taking old myths, stories, and historical accounts such as King Lear. He would break them apart, change them, and make new works with new twists, turns, and characters; his last play The Tempest is his thought to be his only completely original play. Chandler was aware of this parallel and would joke that if Shakespeare were alive he would be living in Hollywood working for the studios.

5 star classic stuff
