I've been fascinated by Kazan since the Ed Harris/Nick Nolte boycott of his 1999 Oscar.  Why, 50 years later, would people still hold a grudge for naming names?  Is it politics, animosity or stupidity?  

But first, this book gives a complete chronological analysis of his career.  From his low level involvement with "The Group", a self-contained theater group with strong communist influences, to his first movie directorial debut.  Kazan started as an undistinguished worker and grew to an "actor's director".  This is overlaid with his involvement as a Communist and early disenchantment.  Later, he is called before the committee after his great success and names former stage communists with whom he worked.  The initial negative input dies down and he goes on to some of his best work including the classic, "On the Waterfront".

This book will have great appeal for movie and stage historians as it really is it is an in-depth analysis.  But the main appeal to me was understanding the hysteria of the Red scare and why 50 years later it would elicit such a negative response.  This book demonstrates the artists coming out of the depression influence when faith in capitalism weakened.  The growth of fascism heightened the "sales pitch" to this new theory of a great life for all, communism.  But, as was later proven, communism had weaknesses also causing many Americans to experiment with a form of government that was cruel and a rival of America.  

It's impossible to determine how difficult it was for Kazan to name names.  While he lost some friends, his career continued very successfully for some time before it faltered as it does for most in show business after a good run.  But 50 years later an honor becomes a media event as modern day left-leaning actors chose to make this an issue.  Interestingly, some actors such as Robert Di Nero, Martin Scorcese and Warren Beatty supported and honored Kazan.  They had worked with him early in their career.  I don't fault Nolte/Harris.  In the prism of today's world, it's easy to ostracize a snitch.  But the issue is much more complex than that.  Our world was in turmoil.  Decisions were made.  Lives were changed on both sides.   Kazan became an opponent of Communism but chose to focus on his career.  Not naming names of known communists would have probably ruined his career.

In summary, this is an exhaustive critical study of his work. Frankly, the study is so exhaustive that that is the weakness.  This book will be most appealing to true movie and stage history buffs.  Also, those with a curiosity into the Red Scare and 1950s American history such as me will receive great information.  Other than that, be forewarned this is a long time consuming educational book.
