This is Hemingway's classic, quasi-autobiographical tale of love and war set in northern Italy during WWI.  Many of the events and characters in this story parallel the real life of EH himself.  Like the author, the main character of this story, Frederic Henry, is an American volunteer ambulance driver taking wounded Italian soldiers from the front line to field stations and then to hospitals in the rear.  During the course of his duties, he falls in love with a British nurse.  The story relates how they try to pursue and develop their relationship with all the turbulent events of the war surrounding and buffetting them.  This is probably the novel that best defines EH as an author, and while a very good tale, is probably not his best novel.  In particular, this story is not nearly as rich nor as well developed as `For Whom the Bell Tolls' (my personal EH favorite).  Most of the text is dialogue between the characters who speak in a terse, direct prose (i.e. the typical Hemingway style).  There are quite a few unexpected twists and turns in the plot, and I must admit that I was surprised by the ending.  Like Robert Jordan in `For Whom the Bell Tolls', the role of Henry as a volunteer allows him to question (really as an outside observer) his relationship with the military and the cause he is fighting for as he is not fighting for patriotism or nationalism.  This is definitely worth buying and reading if you have any interest in American literature.  Unlike many so-called literary `classics', this novel is neither ponderous, obtuse, nor unnecessarily long.  It is an easy, enjoyable read.  If you are new to EH, I would recommend that you either start with this novel or some of his short stories.  If you've already read some other EH works and enjoyed them, you will almost certainly be pleased with this one.  The Scribner hardcover edition is a few dollars more than the paperback, but certainly worth the few extra pennies if you plan to keep the book as part of a collection
