In 1906, Vilfredo Pareto made the observation that 20% of the population owned 80% of the wealth in Italy. It turned out not to be an aberration. The phenomenon is repeated, not only with regards to wealth distribution, but across many economic and social areas of life.

In The 80/20 Principle, Richard Koch explores this idea further, pointing out the pervasiveness of "imbalance", and offering ways to put the 80/20 principle to practical use. It starts with an assumption: 20% of the causes (of anything) produce 80% of the results. For example, 20% of your customers (or products) generate 80% of your revenue. If this is tested with data and proven to be true, the obvious action is to study the traits of those customers and see what can be done to get more just like them. The other 80% of your customers produce only 20% of your revenue. You therefore devote less time and energy to them.

He cites a number of other occurrences of such imbalance:

"In society, 20 percent of criminals account for 80 percent of the value of all crime. Twenty percent of motorists cause eighty percent of accidents....In the home, 20 percent of your carpets are likely to get 80 percent of the wear. Twenty percent of your clothes will be worn eighty percent of the time."

The relationship isn't always precisely 80/20, of course. And the numbers don't have to add to 100. You could have 10 percent of the factors causing 60 percent of the results. The key is the idea of imbalance. The universe is not linear. Koch also ties the 80/20 principle to elements of chaos theory, feedback loops, and tipping points.

But the book is not merely an interesting list of trivial occurrences of imbalance. It helps you think about many aspects of your life, and how they might be improved. Does 20% of your work produce 80% of the results? Do more of the 20%, and less of the rest. Don't succumb to the trap of always trying to manage your time better, cramming ever more activities into your already busy day. Instead, eliminate activities that do not produce significant results (measured in money, output, or just happiness).

Koch also applies this philosophy to investing, with surprisingly good results. When I look back at my own investments, it is certainly true that a minority are responsible for a majority of my returns. The trick, of course, is identifying these "crucial few" ahead of time. While I didn't necessarily agree with all of his investment advice, Koch and I share much common ground. For example, he favors a value approach, and advises readers to "run your gains" and "cull your loss-makers", certainly familiar words to my readers.

Doe the book itself follow the 80/20 rule? Do you get most of the benefit from only 20% of the pages? I'm happy to say "no". Most of the book is helpful and insightful. The only exception in my mind is the end (last 10%), where Koch attempts to apply the 80/20 principle to problems of government and society. This section is a bit of hit-and-miss: some excellent ideas, and some that miss the mark. For example, Koch says it would make sense for the state to create programs (and devote "truly massive energies") in healthy eating, education, and exercise. This, in Koch's mind, would help curtail the minority of habits that create the majority of health problems and thus health care expenditures. He seems to overlook 1) the likely ineffectiveness of such programs, and 2) the resources they drain from other endeavors. But I musn't be too harsh. Koch is generally quite favorable to free markets, and for that he gets high marks from me.

Overall, this is an excellent book, not just because it is an enjoyable read, but because it gets you thinking about real ways you can improve your wealth, health, and happiness. Highly recommended.

Jim Waddell
The Watchful Investor
http://watchfulinvestor.blogspot.com
