John Reed, Harvard Class of 1910, epitomized the best of the pre-World War I bourgeois radicals. Unlike the vast majority of his Class and class he cast his fate with the working people and oppressed of America at a time when the dominant left bourgeois movement- the Progressive movement- was busy applying band aids to the increasingly inequitable capitalist system. The radical movement is always in need, sometimes desperately in need, of intellectuals to tell its side of the story. Despite some exceptions, like Reed, the intellectuals then, as now, either stand on the sidelines or at most acted as `fellow travelers' to the movement. Reed on the contrary put all his energies into the movement. As a journalist he sought out all the radical hotspots of his time starting with his coverage of the Mexican Revolution, through the various workers' strikes of the 1910's in America culminating in his coverage of the heroic period of the Russian Revolution. His journalistic account of the Bolshevik seizure of power, Ten Days That Shook the World, stands even today as one of the best eyewitness accounts of that turbulent time in Russia. Reed had access to many elements of Russian society, from the revolutionatry workers quarters in Vyborg and Kronstadt to high society in the shadow of the Winter Palace, and mined those sources for his material. He brings the passion of the partisan in the best sense to his work. 

If you want insights into the struggle for power from a central character in the fight then Leon Trotsky's History of the Russian Revolution is must reading. If you want to know what the Bolshevik Revolution meant for the configuration of world geo-politcs them E.H. Carr's three volume study is for you. If you want to know what the various parties were up to in the period prior to the Bolshevik seizure of power then Sukhanov's Notes on the Revolution will provide a rather insightful guide. However, if you want to know how the revolutionary developments in 1917 affected various layers of society (and how they responded) then Reed is for you. Enough said.          

