Each Angela Johnson book gets harder and harder to review.  When Ms. Johnson produces yet another slim title about a kid dealing with an extraordinary yet everyday problem, I shiver.  Not because Ms. Johnson is a bad writer, mind you.  Just a funny one.  You can't pin down an Angela Johnson book with a single sentence.  You can't explain what it is that she's doing with her writing without reaching into the complicated issues that she's discussing.  Her first few books were fairly easy to understand.  Nowadays they're all published as perfect little entities that exist entirely in their own world with or without your participation in them.  "Bird", one of the most recent, is more difficult to love than Ms. Johnson's crowd pleasers like "First Part Last".  Telling three different stories from three different perspectives, Johnson spreads herself a little too thin in her tale of a girl looking for a father-figure, a boy learning to use his new heart, and another boy finding a way to come to terms with his brother's death.  Chipper stuff.
	
Bird loved her stepfather Cecil.  He wasn't a particularly reliable man and he wasn't always a nice man, but he was the only daddy Bird had ever known.  Now he's taken off in the middle of the night without a word and the girl can't take it.  Pooling her resources, she heads down South to find Cecil and convince him to return home with her in the North.  She camps out in an old abandoned shed near a cheery family's farmhouse and survives by eating their leftover breakfasts and bathing in their beautiful white bathtub.  The family includes Ethan, a kid who until recently was confined to a hospital bed.  He's just been given a new heart and in Bird he sees someone who can definitely be his first friend.  Trouble is, his heart came from Jay's brother.  Jay moved to town relatively recently, and he's been placed under house arrest for joyriding in a neighbor's truck without permission or a license.  Between the two boys, Bird becomes a gentle visitor who helps them with their problems but also has her own daddy issues to contend with.
	
"Bird" is a lovely book.  Don't get me wrong.  But if you've a kid who likes their plots neatly wrapped up by the story's close, don't hand them this one.  I got to the end of this tale and found myself staring with utter incomprehension at Angela Johnson's biography (appearing just after the last page) rather than the conclusion I'd been anticipating.  I just couldn't figure it out.  Sure, we get a very clear sense of what happens to Bird by the end.  But Ethan and Jay's tales are wrapped up with such a tender touch that you're left feeling just a little bit robbed.  Johnson uses the minimum amount of words to convey her stories.  There's not a sentence out of place or a word that could be used better in her books.  Here, however, instead of feeling that she's filled you up with a work of perfect simplicity, you're hungering for more.  You want more details and explanations.  You want, for example, to know what these people look like.  I never really noticed it before, but when a children's work of fiction talks about two boys of relatively the same age and doesn't describe so much as the shade of their hair, I start seeing them in my mind's eye as the same boy.  Maybe one's a little taller than the other, but that's it.  That's the difference.  Ms. Johnson should have paid more attention to the rudimentary details of her book rather than the lofty ideas that are conveyed in the least amount of words.
	
A bit harsh, aren't I?  I'm sorry.  It really is a nice book.  In many ways the portions of it that talking about running (as exercise) reminded me of Sharon Creech's, "Heartbeat".  I couldn't actually see kids sitting down and reading, "Bird" for pleasure.  If they did they'd find a wonderful little story about what it means to count on someone and how we are affected (and react) to grief.  For those Angela Johnson fans out there, this will be just yet another great venture by a woman that can seriously be regarded as a children's literature veteran.  A perfectly good book that is probably a little more ambitious than it can justify being.
