In this book Mr. Korten provides an excellent insight into corporate and political greed and the growing disparity in income between the affluent and the poor. I'd usually never pay much attention to books on these subjects, but this book has my undivided attention. 

Mr. Korten in his well researched text, puts in words clearly and unambiguously, so many of the points I used to ponder on. I have always wondered, with companies and countries continuously chasing higher production yields, GDP, economic growth, retail sales, and ever accelerating consumption of goods, where it is all going to end and how. We see the results of this mind set in front of our very eyes, today. The reckless exploitation of the earth's natural resources by greedy multinational corporate honchos only intent on short term profits has resulted in an ever accelerating cycle of deforestation, depletion of natural resources, displacement of people, destabilizing economies, and forcing people to work harder to maintain an ever decreasing quality of life. 

The 'global corporate' mindset and policies have not really empowered the common man or made their lives better because he is the least of their concerns. Money is everything. While the rich countries maintain their opulent lifestyles at the expense of the poor, while maintaining that the beinfits of economic acceleration would eventually reach the needy and poor, it has not happened, nor is it going to. Instead, we see in the less developed countries less and less forest land and natural resources, increased crime and poverty, huge masses of people being displaced both physically and job-wise, and an ever increasing strain on the local ecosystems to provide for the lifestyles of the affluent in other countries. 

I'm still reading the book, and the more I read and analyse this work critically, it seems more incredible than anything out of Hollywood, which, at the same time is true if we just open our eyes and really recognise what's happening around us.

However there is no use getting depressed. This book provides a solid foundation with well researched facts, and it is up to us to act, knowing exactly where we stand and where we're heading if we don't
