MG Phelps (below) misinterprets the work of LtoG by thinking it was a gloom and doom prediction.  Quite to the contrary, we can place the research of Donella, et al within the context of the argument Phelps makes and see that its cautions and suggestions are phenomenologically healthy responses of a system attempting to adapt to changes.  The books argues what must change, not HOW that change ought to occur.  I wonder if Phelps even read the research at all, or just read reviews of it from the neo-classical economists that still believe growth is the solution to the problems that growth is causing us.

Others also point out that the original LtoG report was "inaccurate" because people (and our economy) DID respond to it proactively--but only to the point of delaying the inevitable.  The fact of the matter is that human resource consumption is still rampantly (exponentially) growing, that we have exceeded our global ecological carrying capacity, and that our future is dimmer than it otherwise would be for the reason that we will have less clean air, soil, water, nonrenewable minerals, etc to work with.  So tell me what the economy would substitute for clean mineralized water??

In this sense one might hope that humanity DOES NOT for its sake find another source of cheap low entropy matter-energy to exploit (like fossil fuels), because if it does, it makes the systemic collapse of global ecosystems (and the ecosystem services they provide us) that much more likely.  Right now we are showing the collective maturity of a bacteria colony in a petri dish.  Again, I ask, what does the author propose we subsitute for ecosystem services such as the cleaning of our air?  A technological solution will not work because it is inherently reductionist, whereas the factors that are currently involved in cleaning our air are much more efficient, effective and multifunctional (trees aren't just air scrubbers).

Also, why wait until all wood becomes prohibitively expensive before stopping the rampant destruction of forests?  By then, it will be too late.  As the ecological economist Robert Costanza points out, those trees and forest ecosystems are more valuable as ecosystems than as "aggregates of resources for exploitation" within our economy.
