This novel sure does a different spin from the original fairytale.  Just Ella is the continuation of Cinderella... and what happens after she meets Prince Charming is far from happily ever after.  (Cinder)Ella doesn't rely on a fairy godmother to get to the ball.  There is no pumpkin that turns into a golden carriage or indeed any sort of magic that gets her there.  She makes it on her own.  After all, Ella has endured abuse from her stepmother and stepsisters and knows how to make it on her own.  And that is what she wants the most -- freedom.  And she thinks she's found out when she becomes Charming's betrothed.  But she realizes that she goes from being an abused maid to being a lady living an insubstantial life in an ivory tower of sorts, knitting and taking etiquette classes all day long.  Prince Charming is also a disappointment.  He is as dense as the air and shallow as a bird bath.  When she decides to doesn't want to marry Charming, she discovers a whole new nightmare that makes living with her step-family seem like a pleasant vacation in comparison.  There are various twists throughout the novel.

This continuation gives Cinderella a far more substantial spin.  It tells the story of a young woman who is intelligent and spirited as well as beautiful.  She has more depth here than she does in the original fairy tale and in the other retellings and continuations I have read.  I love the backdrop of arranged marriages and of women's lack of power.  Cinderella is portrayed as a woman before her time here (I assume this is set during renaissance times) and that gives it a more unique spin to the classic fable.  I do agree with the reviewer who says that the dialogue sounds too modern at times and that kind of ruined the historical aspect for me, and it that is why I give this four stars instead of five.  But the historically inaccurate dialogue is not enough to keep me from enjoying this until the end.  Just Ella is wonderful from beginning to end.  It has regained my faith in continuation of classics.  Margaret Peterson Haddix is a talented Children/Young Adult author and I enjoyed this immensely.  I highly recommend this gem
