I WILL REPAY, a sequel to Orczy's novel THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL, is a delightful romp through fields of adventure, danger, betrayal, daring rescue, and true love.  Orczy's weaving of the love motif amidst the events of the plot, events that threaten at any moment to bring down the wrath of Robespierre's Committee of Public Safety upon our protagonists, a wrath that would inevitably and quickly lead them to the guillotine, is adroitly done.  Her weaving integrates threads of misunderstanding, misinterpretation, and erroneous conclusion with those of attraction, trust, adoration, and longing to produce a tapestry replete with the darkness of betrayal and the brightness of redemption.

As in THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL, women in I WILL REPAY are both the cause of the novel's crisis and the reward after its resolution.  Juliette Marny's naivete and innocence in the ways of the world lead her to agree to a terrible oath when her brother is killed, in a fair fight one must note, by Paul Deroulede.  Her unquestioning religious beliefs overcome her yet immature judgement and compassion and give that oath, taken many years earlier, the upper hand and lead to the denouncement of Deroulede to the deadly Committee of Public Safety in revolutionary France.

Juliette is not the only character to suffer from the "weakness of a woman's heart."  The strange, malformed little Anne Mie contrives to betray Juliette just as Juliette betrays Deroulede.  While Orczy's women are the betrayers and instigators in these novels, none is of truly evil disposition. Their betrayals are the result of their "feminine weakness," a characteristic that may appear strange to a 21st century reader who is accustomed to seeing contemporary women as at least equal to men if not, in many cases, their superiors.  However, such was not the case when Baroness Orczy wrote in the early 20th century and was certainly not the norm in 18th century France, historical exceptions such as Joan of Arc notwithstanding.  Orczy's women, therefore, are weak and are subject to all the frailties in judgement of their sex, but they are as much innocent victims of this as are those whom they betray because of those frailties.

After the multiple misunderstandings and betrayals, we find both Juliette Marny and Paul Deroulede condemned by the court, in the cart surrounded by the National Guard, and en route to prison, through which they will quickly pass to the embrace of Madame Guillotine.  How can they possibly escape?  Readers who have already made the acquaintance of the Scarlet Pimpernel in Orczy's novel of that name will understand that very little is beyond the wiles of this Englishman bent on thumbing his nose at the revolutionary government by spiriting its prey to the safety of his own country.  His swashbuckling plan to rescue the condemned is the epitome of derring-do and is fully worthy of this surprising English gentleman.

If I find anything in this novel to rebuke, it may be Orczy's incessant painting of the revolutionary government and of the Parisian mobs in the darkest, filthiest, and most noisome colors she can create.  Not to sound as an apologist for the horrors of the First Republic, but I did find the constant portrayal of its proponents as the most loathsome and nastiest of creatures to be annoying after a time.  In this regard, Orczy not only made her point early but kept making it at every turn in the story.  The plot would not have suffered from a little less vehemence and less heavy-handedness in her descriptions.

One can find, amidst the swashbuckling adventure of this novel, a few moral lessons, too, especially one relating to the title.  It is Juliette's oath, which she allows to supercede God's injunction to leave vengeance to Him, that is the root of the major crises in the story.  Of course, had she followed God's word, rather than that of her dying and revenge-bent father, there would have been no story.

I am reminded that the first novel in the Pimpernel genre was originally written as a stage play. It is an easy transformation to see I WILL REPAY recast as a play as well, and it would be a most entertaining diversion.  In either case, whether reading it in its actual form as a novel or playing it on the stage in one's mind, one will enjoy the experience of being in the audience as Baroness Orczy's story unfolds
