Having lived through the diagnosis of my son -- I can relate 100% with this book.  The mother's feelings, the ability to press on while others are in denial.....  It can be a lonely road at times.   You become so desperate that you feel that one day your child will snap out of it.  I read the reviews and thought it is easy for a reader to criticize not having gone through this. Mary, I apologize for their ignorance.  
As a result - in addition to the chelation therapy I also removed dairy from my son's diet.  At first I saw little change until I put him back on milk and boy I saw the self stimming go out of control.  His dad and I were at the verge of separation a few years ago as well.  He was in denial while I was fighting the system -but thank God he is has come on board and is the most dedicated Dad and supportive husband - even among my friends that have autistic kids - my husband is a Godly Gift.

We are doing a lot better -  I feel so encouraged and hopeful.  I no longer feel guilty about my frustrations or anger - I now know it's a natural feeling and I know I have over come it. BUt I did feel guilty for having the initial feelings   If only I had met someone as truthful and honest - I thought I was going mad with my thoughts and reactions to my son's diagnosis.  Now my son is 6 years old.  He is high functional - there is still a long journey ahead.   This book has made me even more determined to seek more help.

I've had the opportunity to meet Renee Randazzo, (Tony's sister in the book)- she works at a center helping children get services for their special needs.  She took her family's journey to help others.  I APPLAUD Renee's work and her mom's determination to see through this whole ordeal. I wish I could meet Mary Callahan in person and let her know that I was encouraged and determined to also fight for my son, Cristian.

This is a great book for someone who has had a diagnosis in their family.   Years later - therapies and treatment change to the better - but initial feelings are just as real and painful.  THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR WRITING YOUR STORY!!!!!
