Someome on here used The Prince by Machiavelli as a comparison. I agree with him: the books are completely different...perhaps just as different as the people, although their fates were quite similar...

More writes that, to accieve a social perfection, all men have to both be 1. equal and 2.governed. This I don't understand...perhaps because I was raised in the US. How can men be equal without liberty? Isn't liberty the very essence of life? The very thing that motivates men to be better? To accieve the "utopia" that More speaks of (in ideal) ALL the occupants of the country would have to be able to give for the betterment of all. But how would people THAT INTELLIGENT ever be satisfied with this? How could they ever release their fingers from their life? 

Living in this kind of world would be like being a staunch religonist ruled by a visible god. You would never go wrong, on pain of an eternity in hell. You would never question. You would never be your own person....you would give up what you are. 

I don't think that when we talk about Utopia we're just talking about happiness. In perfection, justice is expected to be wholesome. But men are STILL men. Utopia still dosn't make you god... even if you believe. I want liberty to say, ME, if I was right or wrong. 

"He who becomes master of a city accustomed to freedom and does not destroy it, may expect to be destroyed by it, for in rebellion it has always the watchword of liberty and its ancient privileges as a rallying point, which neither time nor benefits will ever cause it to forget. In republics there is more vitality, greater hatred, and more desire for vengeance, which will never permit them to allow the memory of their former liberty to rest." (From The Prince)

I guess if having a safe life is your objective, if being taken advantage of is your worst nightmare, if you are prepared to have faith in men JUST THE SAME AS BEING RULED HERE, you may be happy in Utopia. I, personally, have always thought that perfection would be quite dull, aside from the devestation of having my precious liberty ripped from me. 

Good, thought provoking book. Fav. quote: "It's a natural instinct to be charmed by one's own productions. That's why raven chicks are such a delight to their parents, and mother apes find their babies exquisitely beautiful." (From, obviously, Utopia.)

