This book, the second in the Dream series, is about Kate Powell, a distant relative of the Templeton's that comes to live with them after her parents are killed in a car accident when  Kate is 8.

Kate is not beautiful like Margo or sophisticated like Laura.  She is an over achiever.  She feels that the only way to pay the Templeton's back for everything they've done for her is to be the best at what she does.  She's a whiz with numbers, so she becomes an accountant at a well-respected firm, with the hopes of soon becoming a partner.  She obsesses over everything, never feeling like she's good enough.

One day at work, she discovers that her father was accused of embezzling money and was faced with going to jail when he died. She also learns the Templeton's replaced the money he took, but never said anything to her.  Shortly after learning that, she is accused by the partners in her firm of embezzling from their clients and is asked to take a leave of absence until it can be resolved.  Destroyed and humiliated, she puts up a wall rather than fight the charges because she doesn't want her father's past revealed.

Enter Byron DeWitt, the new head of the Templeton hotel in Monterey.  Kate and Byron start out detesting each other, but learn to tolerate each other and eventually become friends.  The attraction between them develops over time.  Kate suffers severe stomach pains in his company twice, the second time landing her in the hospital against her wishes.  Kate finds out she has an ulcer and is near exhaustion.  She is taken back to Templeton House to recover.  Byron helps her begin an excerise and weight lifting program and that's when the attraction between them takes off.

With her career in shambles, Kate becomes a more active partner in Pretenses.  She has never been a people person, preferring to be alone with her calculator and spread sheets, but to her surprise, she enjoys her work there.  Of course, she is cleared of the embezzlement charges and is offered a partnership at her old firm, but she turns it down finally realizing that it wasn't as important as she thought it was.  She also realizes how important Byron is to her.

This was a wonderful story.  Nora Roberts knows how to develop her characters.  She is at her best when she writes her trilogies.  I highly recommend this series, but you should read them in order to follow the story from the beginning
