Where do I even begin? Well, I should probably have the word "post-modern" somewhere in the first two sentances. Certainly, few books are as twisted, convention-shattering, and bizarre as House of Leaves. Danielewski's narrative style is a brain-bending mix of horror, comedy, poetic surrealism, toung-in-cheek faux-academia, and romance. Over the course of the book (it's a pretty big stretch to call this a "novel"), a myriad of narrators bombard the reader with straight storytelling as well as poetry, philisophical discourses, screenplays, and epistillary narratives. These, in turn, convey a dizzying array of plots, subplots, overtones, undertones, backstories, sub-sub-plots, digressions, regressions,revelations, red herrings, and interludes. In short, House of Leaves isn't really a book so much as it is a small library, a fun-house mirror of the written word and all of its versitile glories.

The book defies sumarizatian (largely because the identity of its main plot is quite debatable), but here's my stab at putting the basic premise into words: A young man named Johnny Truant discovers a manuscript written by and old man named Zampano. The manuscript is a lengthy critical analysis of a documentary called the Navidson Record, which in turn depicts a family attempting to cope with the supernatural horror that resides in their new house. The catch is, the film doesn't exist- Zampano made the whole thing up. House of Leaves is Zampano's manuscript, with additional footnotes and annotations by Truant, as well as three appendices and an index. Truant's footnotes are often lengthy, confessional pieces, full of emotional outbursts and poetic observations (in stark contrast to Zampano's stiff, scholarly tone). Zampano's manuscript explores the film, the family, and the house from every possible angle and in every concievable light. The story seems to be soaked in symbolism and hidden meanings. The writing seems to be loaded with clues and implications, all of which the reader can take seriously or ignore at will. One can read - and enjoy- this book on any level they choose. The interactive and intricate nature of the narrative reveal the strange, unique bond between author and reader- in that sense, House of Leaves is a fiction about fiction, a gloriously self-referential exploration of the novel and all its versetile power.

Is House of Leaves a success? Well, yeah. Sorta. The stories are certainly great- the plight of the Navidsons is both terrifying and touching, while  the plucky, intelligent, and deeply troubled Johnny Truant is one of the most likable characters I've ever met. The stories interact marvelously, with flailing streams of narrative running parallel and perpendicular to eachother, raveling and unraveling to create an amorphous, mega-faceted polynovel. Astoundingly enough, Danielewski never lets his work become a case of style over substance: the stylistic and textual experimentation only enhances the flow of the book. Anyway, House of Leaves isn't driven by post-modern posturing: It works because it has compelling plots, loveable, sympathetic characters, and Danielewski's obvious love and knack for telling a great story. House of Leaves does have its boring moments, and the narrative does occasionally lose focus, but such criticisms are thmbtacks in the foot of an elephant. This is a spectacular book, one that belongs on the reading list of anyone who's looking for something original and engaging
