A friend of mine recommended that I read this book, so I picked up a copy from the library and sat down one night to start reading it.  I then proceeded to stay up until 6 AM because it was such an interesting book that I didn't want to put it down.  If it were not for the vast amounts of evidence that Tompkins provides, I would have dismissed his theory (that the pyramids were designed and built by a very advanced race who existed before the Egyptians) as a wacky conspiracy theory.  I am still not completely convinced that he is correct in his theories, but I am doing more research into the subject as a result of this book.  Other authors seem to agree with his conclusions (i.e. Graham Hancock, John West, Robert Bauval, etc.), and they provide further evidence, so it is not something you can simply dismiss.  Even if you disagree with Tompkin's conclusions, this book will make you think.  All of the exceptional properties of the pyramid which Tompkin outlines cannot all be coincidental as conventional Egyptologists claim, so at the very least Tomkins provides a rather stunning blow to contemporary Egyptology.

If you have not yet delved into the mysteries of the Pyramid, Sphinx, etc. then this is a good starting place, though I think that Graham Hancock's "The Message of the Sphinx" was easier to understand.

I have only two complaints about this book:
    1. Tompkins tends to give a lot of credible facts, then throw in something which is not so credible (i.e. he claims that the shape of the Great Pyramid has special power, and that model pyramids can keep milk inside of them from going bad even if placed out in the heat).  The non-credible thing is not usually part of his main argument, but it still does not help his image.
    2.  He is not always easy to follow, though I am sure that if I had a better knowledge of topography and geometry I would be able to follow along better.  The massive appendix is the toughest part of the book to follow, as it is almost completely formulas and equations.  Hancock does a much better job of explaining things in terms the average reader can understand.

Overall, this is a great book.  He has some strange theories, but he also has the evidence to back them up.  To the best of my knowledge, no modern Egyptologist has yet written a book refuting the position of Tompkins/Hankock/etc., and this book was published 35 years ago.

Overall grade: A
