One of the chronic problems to successfully implement and sustain a lean initiative is the confusion of management's role--how to be engaged and support beyond funding and verbal endorsement of a lean initiative. Surveys show a 56% success rate with lean. There is a crying need for a guideline for management to be aligned with the floor changes at ALL levels of management. This is key to developing a lean culture. The reason I like Mann's book is that he touches on things that aren't found elsewhere to developing a LEAN MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. Companies typically will hire consultants in hopes of taking them to lean nirvana. But, for most orgs, there are two components that could hurt you: the recalcitrant manager  (typically 15-20%) and the rest of the organization that want to be engaged but don't know their role. Both could doom your efforts. Mann's provides an excellent prescription to help you get management realigned with standard roles and specific daily tasks at all levels. Without this, you're dead. I only wish his book was better written to facilitate application. The content is practical but the format isn't--more visuals are needed and a too wordy--but, the goods are definitely there. You won't be disappointed; I still highly recommend this book.  If you are looking for some guidelines for conducting a Gemba walk or developing an assessment (don't miss his Appendix) he goes into great detail. The book is divided into two major sections: 
What is the Lean Management System? 
Ch 1: The Missing Link in Lean
Ch 2: The Lean Management System's Principle Elements
Ch 3: Standard Work for Leaders
Ch 4: Visual Controls
Ch 5: Daily Accountability Process
 Learning Lean Management & Production: Supporting Elements
Ch 6: Learning Lean Mgmt: Sensei and Gemba Walks
Ch 7: Leading a Lean Operation
Ch 8: Solving Problems & Improving Processes--Rapidly
Ch 9: People--Predictable Interruption; Source of Ideas
Ch 10: Sustain What you Implement 
Appendix, Glossary, References, Index. 
