I first used Northouse's book in 2001, when I was a doctoral student. The book truly provides a good overview of the most common leadership theories  and styles that exist, along with their advantages and disadvantages. 

I recently used the book in another position: as an instructor of leadership courses. My current perspective is that some chapters are better written than others, but that may have to do with the fact that not all chapters are written by the same author.

Yet, overall, it is a very useful work for those who want to familiarize themselves with the predominant perspectives on leadership.

Although I used this book as a partial foundation for my own work, "The Awakened Leader: One Simple Leadership Style That Works Every Time, Everywhere," there is one major difference: While Northouse basically presents various leadership theories alongside each other as separate, non-complying entities, "The Awakened Leader" claims that leadership in the new millennium should entail segments of ALL leadership styles and theories on an appropriateness basis. 

I firmly believe that, in a time where globalization has become a part of our everyday life and has ignited increasing interdependency, multiplicity of mindsets and approaches, and multi-faceted workplaces, there can no longer be a separation of various leadership styles.

Consequently, "The Awakened Leader" presents a meta-leadership approach, which guides the leader toward implementing the appropriate leadership style once he or she has assessed the situation, the followers, and the environment at hand. Awakened Leadership is based on flexibility through open-mindedness, or wakefulness. And it completes the perspectives that many great leadership authors have presented us in the past decade: successful leadership of the self and others, based on proven trends of the past, the now, and the future.

Yet, that being said, I think Northouse's book is an important foundation for students in business and management to know what leadership styles are in existence, while "The Awakened Leader" encourages combining these leadership styles on a need basis
