Gloria Rusch's book &quot;The Professional Singer's Handbook&quot; is a must for anyone seriously pursuing a career as a singer.  It addresses all the questions that the average singer with a dream wonders about.  The  music industry is such a mystical unknown for those of us dreaming of  becoming part of it.  So often we are left to trial and error to discover  the road to success by falling in our own potholes (and many of us are left  in the ditch, downtrodden and discouraged).  Gloria speaks to the reader as  though she is speaking to one of her own students, taking an active  interest in seeing you succeed and laying the truth out on the line when  you need it.  She discusses topics such as how to know if you have what it  takes, selecting a vocal coach, stage presence and how to develop it, how  to stay healthy including specific remedies when you need to sing sick, how  to select microphones and equipment, the difference between singing live  and singing in a studio and how to be successful at each, as well as the  business side of the business--selecting a manager (when to and how to),  the ins-and-outs of getting a record deal, different ways to make money  with your voice and who to contact when you're ready, etc.  Gloria also  recommends other books she found helpful as she made her way in the  industry which will explore specific topics in more detail.  Finally, the  book includes interviews with other successful people in the industry from  singers to managers, songwriters, producers, etc--all aimed at helping the  reader &quot;make it&quot;.  Gloria speaks in a very down-to-earth manner  that anyone can relate to and understand.  After reading this book, I felt  I had a handful of friends in the industry willing to give me a chance.  I  found myself mesmerized, absorbing her information like a sponge, thinking  &quot;so THAT'S how you go about it!&quot;  This book doesn't go into  super-specific detail about each subject, but it gives you a solid  foundation with specific instruction on where to go next.  The perfect  foundation to help you CREATE your own success rather than waiting to be  one of the lucky few who magically get &quot;discovered&quot;.  As I said  in the first line, this book is a must-read for anyone serious about making  it as a singer
