I never thought I'd write these words: Reason is great. 

Two-thirds of the way through the book I was sure I'd never finish it. And if I did finish, I was convinced I would rip this book apart to any who asked.

I was wrong. 

But I was also right. 

Reason is really two books. The first one is horrid, tortured, boring and pointless. It reads, if you can stay awake, as the ramblings of a Harvard blow-hard. It is bad. No, really bad. 

But right about page 117 of the paperback Reich makes his first real point. It's a good one - specifically that conservatives like to demonize welfare recipients because they are (in theory) lazy and haven't worked for the money they're getting. Yet conservatives pushed to eliminate the tax on inherited wealth which is in fact money being given to people who didn't earn it. Nice point. 

And right about page 160, the book gets good. I don't know if Reich just gets on a roll, or he felt he had to puff-up his bona fides first or if in fact the book is just backwards. But it doesn't matter. After page 160 it is what I expected it to be - well argued, relevant and passionate. 

If the last 45 pages were a book on their own, it would be a best seller. Hidden back there is point after point. Those who champion cutting taxes (or dodge taxes) can't call themselves patriots. And why graduated income actually makes sense. Why required public service for young people is a good idea. The difference between moving to the center and defining the center and why one is good and the other is bad. 

Honestly, the last 45 pages are like those Time-Life record collections: the hits just keep on coming. At the end Reich throws in a refresher list of topics and points from the book - like Cliff's Notes. I guess he can't stop teaching. That's a good idea too. 

Read the book. On balance it's worth your time and money. But you may want to start at page 110. It's like skipping the pre-meal salad. You won't miss it. Especially when what you're really after is the red meat. 
