I had a nightmare last night. I had seen four Arab men with what looked like an atom bomb about to detonate it in the New York subway system!I had seen the movie THE MONEY TRAIN: And I thought I recognized the yellow brick rooms like in the movie. 
Drosnin in his last book BIBLE CODE II: THE COUNTDOWN, seems to predict that New York City is destined for such a nuclear terror attack!
On this subject, Drosnin writes:
"I fear that one morning we will wake up to the news that a whole city has been destroyed-not two big buildings, but an entire city-that New York, Tel Aviv, or Jerusalem just does not exist anymore." (p. 235)
Drosnin has found other nuclear holocaust predictions in the Old Testament in coded form, in the that resemble crossword puzzles: Atomic holocaust with a missile (p. 226); Atomic Holocaust in 2006 (p. 235). I noticed as I studied the Book of Revelation, God sends down judgments on man in increments, getting increasingly severe right up to Armageddon. I like how Drosnins found that the terror attacks werd Birth Pangs like the language Jesus Christ used in the Olivet Dioscourse. Birth pains in the Olivet Discourse refer to disasters that God sends upon mankind as judgments or punishments. And just like the woman in labor, the pains and disasters both become more intense and frequent until the woman gives birth. But in Bible prophecy, the event is the End of the world or the Second Coming of Jesus Christ!  
But Drosnin also said:
"Apocalyptic religious fanatics, terrorists armed with weapons of mass destruction, men who believe they are on a mission from God, they are the ultimate danger encloded in the Bible." (p.22)
I had found another mysterious encypted message in the Old Testament which shows the "Mercy of God" intertwined with "Judgment of God" Like it says God may wound but he also forgives.
Also I saw this insight about Bin Laden on my own but later found it in this book: "Bin Laden" associated with "Judgment from God". Like God was using Bin Laden as a sword in his hand to punish or scourge the United States for its sins and cruelty. I get my deductions from the Holy Spirit and personal Bible study. I don't know the first thing about Hebrew! 
