Imagine a war where the majority political party railroads the minority party into joining it, where the rationale for declaring it is hastily revised when the original purpose is exposed as reckless, where the imagined economic benefit morphs into an economic hardship.  Imagine a war with prison scandals and party rancor and restrictions on civil rights, a war so unpopular the military has trouble recruiting soldiers.  Imagine a war where plenty of lives are lost but the entire exercise returns you pretty much to where you started.  Sound familiar?

    One of the dangers of ignoring history is that you are doomed to repeat it.

    The other day, as I was checking into a hotel, a young man noticed what I was reading.  "Oh," he said, "The War of 1812, wasn't that against the Mexicans?"

    "No," I told him.  "The British.  It was our second war against the British."

    "We fought the British twice?" he asked in disbelief.

    "Yes," I told him and couldn't help thinking this kid probably knows someone fighting in Iraq but doesn't know the first thing about the single American war which most resembles our current conflict.  He is not alone.  Ignorance about the war of 1812 is rife, thus the name of Donald Hickey's engrossing work The War of 1812, a Forgotten Conflict, and this is one of the reasons it's so interesting.

    What could make a country want to forget one of its wars?  Is it that we suffered an embarrassing drubbing at the hands of an inferior foe, ala Vietnam?  Nope.  Could it be that not much of interest happened and it was over in a hurry, ala Grenada or Panama?  Nope.  Could it be that it produced no lasting heroes, nothing of any consequence to recall?  Wrong again.  In fact the War of 1812 ended in a virtual draw with a superior foe, reflecting well on the courage and ability of the underdog, who was us.  It lasted two long years and involved many grueling battles, and it produced many notable figures and at least one bonafide hero who went on to become the President of the United States.  So why have we forgotten it?  Because any objective observer from this vantage would have to conclude it was rash and ill considered, driven largely by vindictive spite and the lure of political bounty supposed to accrue by giving the bad guy a sharp rap on the snout.  But just like the current dust up, the War of 1812 backfired, causing embarrassment and chagrin, putting unnecessary pressure on the economy, and very nearly carrying us into a broader conflict which we were unprepared to deal with.

    One of the myths of the War of 1812 is that the British were mounting a second American revolution, trying to get back what they'd lost in 1776.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  In fact, the British were largely distracted with a much bigger conflict against Napoleon's armies on the continent of Europe and America chose this moment to prosecute some fairly minor grievances, in affect yanking their tail while they were in a fierce dog fight with France.  The fact that they didn't turn around and rip us to pieces, particularly after the war in Europe ended and they could devote all their attention to us, speaks well of their restraint - as well as their national exhaustion after years of fighting.  It is one of those miracles of our growth and survival as a nation that the recklessness of our leaders didn't result in our national destruction.  And this is why the war has been forgotten.

    No nation wants to believe that it's so much at the mercy of the whims of its leadership that it can be carried into a conflict with such devastating potential to rectify such ill conceived grievances and end up, after all, having accomplished very little.  

    Hinkley's book is well written, adequately structured and thorough.  It drags a bit in the portions dealing with the financial implications of the war and asks a basic knowledge of the period, particularly when dealing with financial issues, but it is nevertheless worth delving into, if not for the fascinating subject matter, than for the uncanny resemblances it has with the current conflict, reminding us once again why we should never forget, lest we travel the same path again.
