Returning to the US after living in England for twenty years, Bill Bryson becomes intrigued with the idea of the hiking the Appalachian Trail, a portion of which is in his New Hampshire backyard.  The 2100-mile trail from Georgia to Mt. Katahdin in Maine winds through virgin forest and scenes of incredible natural beauty and provide an unparalleled opportunity to be alone and reflective.  

Bryson's sense of adventure and his enthusiasm hold him in good stead as he sets off in Georgia, though he has little idea of how difficult it will be to hike 15 or more miles a day, up and down mountains with forty pounds of gear, including a tent, on his back.  He is accompanied by Stephen Katz, an acquaintance from Iowa with whom he once traveled in Europe, who is even more out of shape than he is.  The contrast between the attitudes of the two men--Bryson, enthusiastic, and Katz, grimly concerned (and complaining) about the difficulties--reflect, between them, the attitudes of virtually any reader of this amusing and thoughtful travelogue.  Additional kooky characters appear throughout this account to add humor and complexity to the hike.

Bryson is a fine observer of nature, and as he and Katz travel for six weeks from Georgia through the Carolinas into the Shenandoah National Park, he includes much background about the trail and its history, and about the record of the National Forest Service and the National Parks Service, both of which he finds shocking.  The National Forest Service is the largest builder of highways in the country, providing access for logging operations in the forests.  The National Parks Service has a hands-off policy regarding the protection of endangered species of trees, which are dying due to global warming, diseases, and pollution.

At the end of six weeks, Bryson and Katz end the first phase of the hike and return to their homes.  The book loses some of its narrative momentum and its humor when Bryson returns months later to continue part of the trail alone--the reader misses Katz and his complaints--and Bryson becomes more philosophical and more critical of governmental policy in the latter part of the book.   Overall, however, this is a fascinating account of a trail that traverses a major part of the eastern landscape, and Bryson beautifully conveys his awe for its magnificent scenery.  To the extent that its species are vanishing and its forests are dying, it is also a wake-up call to all concerned Americans.  n  Mary Whipple
