Understand that I wouldn't even have cared about this type of book if it had not have been for Mr. Kiyosaki.  

With that said, I have to say this is an excellent book on many levels.  It is divided into 6 parts.  Part I:  Upgrade your Wealth Operating Systems deals with changing beliefs.  Better than average use of some NLP techniques to "reframe" your poor beliefs about money.  It works from identifying the beliefs, weakening, removing and replacing with better beliefs.  Again, this isn't an overnight process.

Part II:  Dream Big!  Imagine David Swartz's book Magic of Thinking Big in three chapters or less.  

Part III:  Mastermind Your way to millions!  Great material on MM groups, better than alot of what I've seen in other books devoted completely to the subject (sorry about that Joe V.).  Makes suggestions that I wish previous MM's I had been part of had utilized.

Part IV:  Build to Level 3 wealth and enjoy a Maui Lifestyle.  Okay, after awhile even I got tired of the phrase "Maui Millionaire."  However, these chapters talk of how to get started (wherever you are) and move toward a Level 3.  Level 3 goal:  Converting large parts of net worth into secure income streams and solid, long-term investments.  Lev. 2 goal?  build assets and financial skills.  Lev. 1 goal?  Build solid base of financial and investment skills.  Part III introduces some formulas for measuring your progress that I just L-O-V-E!  They summarize it as a "Wealth Scorecard" which works wonderful for the MasterMind groups.

Part V:  Tap into Maui Giving to Create a Legacy that Lives Beyond You!  I particularly enjoyed the chapter on using leverage to sustain giving beyond my liftetime.  It had great questions for evaluating Nonprofits/charities.

Part VI:  The Final Inch.   More about giving, which is summarized by "We're saying don't let saving stop you from giving."  Shares a quick stretch your money belief exercise on giving.

Online stuff associated with the book:  Wow!  5 star plus!

Summary:  If you are currently in a MM devoted to improving your business/financial life, then this book will offer several tools that will easily propel you toward something possibly better than you had previously dreamed of.  *****

