During the late 1980's to early 1990's, it seemed as though nothing could stop the relentlessly increasing toll of AIDS on the gay community in the United States.  Having known of this novel but not having read it, I finally turned to it in the hope that it offered some kind of insight into a time when gales of death swept over gays as much as it did the inhabitants of Oran.  Although the book may be read on several levels, I was familiar with the description of it as an allegory on the Nazi occupation of France during World War II.  (Camus risked torture and death as a member of the Resistance at that time.)

Its chronicling of human beings varied and invariable reactions to catastrophe will ensure this book being read long after we are all dead.  Doctor Rieux, from whose point of view the story is told is very much like another of Camus' heroes, Sisyphus. Numbed he may be, but he will not give up.  No matter that the he can do nearly nothing for the tormented sufferers; he will still try to alleviate their agonies until the end.  Even if the doctor himself should be plague-stricken, he at least dies resisting, knowing that he has fulfilled his thing-to-do, his raison d'etre.  By contrast, the Jesuit Father Paneloux in his facile homily towards the beginning of the book complacently notes that the pure in heart have nothing to fear, and that the plague is God's test of sinful humanity.  Unfortunately for the good father, after several weeks of the just and unjust alike being mown down, he witnesses the hours-long, excruciating death of a young boy while helping the doctor tend the sick and dying.  Admirably, Camus does not set up straw men here, the most harrowing part of this book (perhaps of any book).  If Doctor Rieux cannot believe in a God who would permit children to die in torment, then the priest admits that God's actions are completely incomprehensible, i.e., his neat teleology is proven to be made of gossamer when push comes to shove.

There are lines here and there that stick to the reader:  "Are you not afraid of the plague, Madame?"  Doctor Rieux's elderly mother (who has been leaving supper out for her late-returning son) is asked.  With her capital good sense, she replies that at her age, "there is not much left to be afraid of."  While the city is sealed off from the outside world, the habitues of the cafes sit silent and disconsolate, knowing now the loneliness of exiles, or of prisoners "forced by man's justice or man's hatred to live behind prison walls."  "Even the past savored only of regret..." because the townspeople were in the grip of "memor[ies] that served no purpose."

Finally the plague relents and the city gates swing open.  Life resumes with its little rituals and pleasures, but the plague only sleeps, awaiting another day when it will go forth into the streets and houses of the happy city.

Those who lived through the AIDS epidemic in the United States can never forget not only the plague itself, but the other "plagues" of willful ignorance, deliberate fear mongering, and  hatred (naked or disguised)  that followed, and that Camus addresses metaphorically.  These have subsided somewhat now, due partly to apathy and partly to the unwillingness to be risk embarrassment at the memory. (At least shame is not completely dead.)  At present however, there are ominous clouds on the horizon ranging from a possible global influenza pandemic to potentially severe economic dislocations triggered by unprecedented and unsustainable levels of public debt.  Gay men have borne witness in their bodies and souls to the evils of disaster itself and the fatuous complacency, malevolent fantasy and scapegoating that so frequently follow.  Also the unexpected courage, and love that so many found in themselves.  Anyone wishing to gain an appreciation of these things at second hand would be well advised to read this book
