Michael Ruse must hold some kind of record for his effort in reconciling disputes and bring calm to contentious arenas.  The evolution-creation conflict has raged around him for thirty years.  He's attempted to impart the issues, describe the contenders and resolve the philosophical differences.  His many books have covered the viewpoints from several directions.  He presents various perspectives as dispassionately as these may be conveyed.  He obviously abhors strife.  This book may be the penultimate effort on his part to parley    the current dispute in the USA over "intelligent design" and evolutionary biology. 

His method is almost military.  Assemble the warring troops and conscript them into a single force.  He introduces nearly every figure in Enlightenment Protestantism on the Continent, Britain and the Western Hemisphere.  Puritan Jonathon Edwards stands, if uneasily, with Matthew Arnold and pre-conversion John Henry Newman.  Ranks of evolutionists, from the Darwins, grandfather Erasmus and the renowned Charles, through Thomas Huxley and Ronald Fisher.  As the phalanx swells in number, Ruse struggles to show where similarities imply some level of uniformity.  Darwin started out to be a cleric and various churchmen sought to find a divine plan in the evidence Nature depicted to those willing to observe and record.  

On the Continent and Britain, "creation" as a firm stance receded quietly in the background.  As Ruse has stated elsewhere, it was possible for a Darwinian to be a Christian, and vice versa.  In the USA, the picture was different, beginning even before independence.  Distance from European influences and the sense of mission many settlers brought in their knapsacks led to the rise of "exceptionalism" there.  Not only was the new nation blessed with material benefits, but the arrangement was deemed part of a divine plan.  Implicit in the plan was the notion of "progress".  Darwin's natural selection decreed no purpose to evolution, an idea which even ardent followers couldn't accept.  Instead, the human species was placed at the top of the evolutionary tree in solitary splendour.  All that was needed to fulfill the "plan" was to determine the way humans should work out their mandate.

Exceptionalism under divine mandate had no hesitation in declaring that the god's intention was to favour those who kept the faith.  The Second Coming, long debated in Europe, found new, and strident, spokesmen in the USA.  "Millenarianism", either pre- or post- , depending on what scenario was favoured, became a major motif in Christianity there.  Versions of these themes would generate "fundamentalism" and literal - or nearly so - readings of one of the many Bibles.  Ruse skims over why this movement came to such intense power in the USA, but he doesn't doubt its impact.  He cites the depressing statistics of US citizens in their acceptance of a deity and firm date for the world's origins.  He notes the vague understanding of the role of humans in Nature, with some accepting evolution, yet detaching humanity from the process.  These muddled outlooks are reflected in the rise of first, "creationism", then "creation science" and finally today's desperate attempt to keep the divine in Nature, "intelligent design".  

With the disclosure of DNA's power to guide life's path, the conflict between religion and biological science in the USA assumed a fresh intensity.  In his chapter "Evolution Today", Ruse lines up new ranks of contenders.  Still struggling to don them in uniforms to reduce disparities, he offers Ian McEwan as a novelist introducing altruism as a natural aspect of human life.  In his description of Edward O. Wilson, Ruse shows how a lapsed Baptist could still retain a strong sense of ethics, but derived from our ancestors in the deep past, not from religious education.  Nature, says Ruse, holds a promise for humanity.  We need only stop contending over who can best show us what that is and how to recognise it.

The problem, says Ruse, is overcommittment.  Both the religious and scientific spokesmen have become entrenched in their views.  Always the peacemaker, this quietly passionate scholar seeks to have two "camps" take serious and reasonably unprejuiced looks at what the other is saying.  Why do the faithful believe so strongly?  Why do evolutionists tend to slide into "evolutionism" - taking "evolution beyond science"?  Ruse sees both camps seeking  human betterment as the goal for all.  Ruse takes a sideways swipe at Richard Dawkins for his "boyish atheism" as one of the more disturbing elements.  This is an unfortunate lapse for Ruse [although he's done it before].  Whatever Ruse's attempts at quieting dispute, he blithely ignores the levels of violence monotheists are capable of perpetrating.  He also ignores the wealth of recent scholarship challenging the long-held tenets of Christianity.  He forgets that religion is founded on dogma, science on assessment of data.

We should pay some heed to what Ruse attempts to achieve in this book.  Natural selection has offered some insights into why individuals find strong stances appealing.  Regrettably, there's been little suggested on means to soften them.  Ruse may provide some reasonable solutions, but bending inflexible minds will take more than his calm approach.  [stephen a. haines - Ottawa, Canada]
