I decided to read "As I Lay Dying" as a follow up to my recent first experience with Faulkner, "The Sound and the Fury." Neither book was an easy read (actually, both were downright difficult), but for reasons I can't quite explain both were also compulsively, almost obsessively readable. "As I Lay Dying" was probably the more accessible of the two, although once again the story is told through the eyes of multiple highly subjective and sometimes unreliable narrators. The choice to present the story in this way makes a relatively straightforward plot more challenging, but it also makes the characters come alive: we see each member of the Bundren family from within and from without; we look on both as a detached neighbor offended by the stink of a rotting corpse, and as a passionate son or daughter struggling to cope with the death of a mother and the odious task of transporting her body 40 miles by wagon under the worst possible conditions.

Ultimately, then, the story is seen and felt and experienced rather than told, and what we see, piece by piece, is a macabre, darkly comic tragedy; an epic journey from the deep countryside of Faulkner's South to a graveyard in Jefferson, Mississippi. To me the title of the book, while arguably a misnomer, is apt: as Faulkner says, death is a function of the mind more so than a phenomenon of the body, and Addie Bundren, although buzzards are circling her coffin, is not truly dead to her family until they can fulfill their promise to her and lay her to rest in Jefferson. But don't think this is a family motivated to endure terrible hardships only out of devotion to a lost loved one. Each member of the family has his or her own personal concerns seething just below the surface, and each makes the trip to Jefferson for his or her own reasons: some hypocritical, some purely selfish, some sincere.

As noted by Cleanth Brooks, the surface of the Bundren's life shows squalor, crassness, selfishness, and stupidity, but beneath outward appearances there are depths of passion and poetry almost terrifying in their power. The very drabness of the surface guarantees the sincerity of the passion below, because these people are not rhetoricians. Accordingly, the basic issue presented by this dichotomy between the inner and outer lives of the characters is probably as simple as this: are we expected to laugh or cry over the Bundren's exploits? Both are possibilities. Faulkner leaves it up to us to decide, and to me that's perhaps the most rewarding aspect of the novel.

So there you have it: this is a tough one but incredibly worthwhile. As already advised by a helfpul review above, you just have to trust the storyteller and remember that even when something seems unexplained or unintelligible, (almost) everything will become clear by the end. I certainly didn't understand everything I was reading, especially while I was reading it, but I loved it nonetheless. Faulkner is a master of evoking a time and a place, and I believe he succeeded in his stated aim to create real people who can "stand up and cast a shadow." Great book
