This book is the story of a motorized canoe trip down most of the Yukon River in the late 1980's.  The author had spent some years in Alaska years before and built a cabin in the bush with his then wife.  10 years later, he returned to the North, recently divorced and went from Whitehorse in the Yukon Territory Canada, west across Alaska to the mouth of the Yukon River in the Bering Sea.

This book is not a mile-by-mile description of landscape and campsites.  Rather it mostly concerns the current inhabitants of the area and the history of the area.  It is well-written and does not contain any "world's greatest" claims.  (You know, the claims in many travel books that a certain place is the prettiest, biggest, greenest, or ugliest place in the world.)  Such honesty is refreshing.  

Having spent one summer on the upper Yukon in Canada and parts of other years, I can tell you this book catches the ambience of the area perfectly - from the Indians (now called "first nations" in Canada in PC talk) to the miners to the malcontents trying to get away from it all.  I found it wonderfully evocative and representative of the people who live up there.  If you've ever read Robert Service's "Spell of the Yukon" you will understand when I say this work is a book-length treatment of the same subject - the strange lure of the North.

I'll close with a couple of excerpts from Service that will give you a sense of the place and the book.

      "No, There's the land, Have you seen it?
       It's the cussedest land that I know,
       From the big, dizzy mountains that screen it
       To the deep, deathlike valleys below.
       Some say God was tired when he made it -
       Some say it's a fine land to shun.
       Maybe, but there's some as would trade it
       For no land on earth, and I'm one.
       It grips you like some kinds of sinning,
       It twists you from foe to a friend,
       It seems it's been since the beginning,
       It seems it will be to the end.

       There's a land where the mountains are nameless,
       And the rivers all run God knows where.
       There are lives that are erring and aimless,
       And deaths that just hang by a hair.
There are hardships that nobody reckons,
There are valleys unpeopled and still.
There's a land, oh it beckons and beckons.
And I want to go back and I will"

Read this if you've ever felt the urge to go North and you'll get a feel for it.
