To say this is a book about a group of sisters who kill themselves is like saying Herman Melville's "Moby Dick" is about a whale. Yes, in a sense.  But Melville's book really concerns human obsession: the whale is just a maguffin.  You don't get to see a diary of  Moby's day ("rose from the deep, had a few thousand kelp, pondered the meaning of life", etc.) because it isn't about him.  It's about Captain Ahab, his desire for vengeance, and the dubious ability of human beings to chase unattainable things to a ruinous degree.

Similarly, The Virgin Suicides takes an extreme case, that of the suicides of five sisters from the same family.  But there is no description of what the girls thought when they decided to take their own lives, no smug psychology that gives a pat final answer: "so it was their religious parents", or "fluoride in the water that was to blame".  Instead it insinuates a corollary of detail from an unidentified and distanced observer to the drama.  This brings the monotony of small-town life into the narrative; the noseyness of neighbours; the attention of the media; the desires of adolescent boys... everything except the impetous(es) that led the girls to do what they did.  The suicides, like the various narratives in Kurosawa's "Rashomon", are a maguffin for what we could coldly call the real themes: the inevitability of conjecture over a single incident, the obfuscation of a single god-like point of view, or rather, and much more importantly, this point of view's refusal to even claim to have an easy explanation.  

Like the whale in Moby Dick (or, say, the mysterious, murderous truck driver in Spielberg's debut film "Duel") the white whale of The Virgin Suicides remains a mystery.  Perhaps this is because the book is not really about the suicides at all.  Perhaps Melville chose the whale precisely because if cannot speak.  It has no voice so as not to give explanations: that is the glory of nature.  The girls have no voice because they need none: it is not about them.  It is merely that in the most extreme cases one finds the most mundane aspects of human experience: the domesticated desires of humans to watch, touch and participate within a community. Eugenides triumph is that he gives us the motivations of people without offering us the sideshow of what they so eagerly desired to see.  The Virgin Suicides are in other words the empty spectacle of a society which claims to understand causes but only feeds into its own chain of obsessions.              

