I have treveled in the DR and Haiti many times over the last 20 years doing volunteer work and this is by far the best guidebook I have run across!  I read the customer reviews and noticed one that said "Good book, but lack of DR Reality".  This book deals with off the beaten path and does it very well indeed!  If one visits Santo Domingo or Puerto Plata and Sosua in the north, you will not encounter the country's great poverty.  These are the cities of the elite and wealthy.  How much poverty would one expect to find in Beverly Hills?  The presidential palace and most diplomats live in Santo Domingo.  There are squatter slums on the outskirts of even this great city.  Where this guidebook excells is in taking you away from the big cities to the smaller towns and villages.  If you want to know how to ride in the back of a pickup to adventure.. to visit Batays where sugarcane is harvested.. to see the dangerous frontier along the Hatian border, to see how common Dominicans live, to find the cheapest places to stay and to eat... This is the only book of its kind out there!  I recommend the Lonely Planet guidebook along with this one for virtually all the info one would ever need on one's trip.  In all fairness This is a book for the would be adventurer... the person unafrade to venture off the tourist paths.  The other reader commented "We visited the DR and we don't know how they wrote 80% live in poverty..."  Be prepared to confront extreme poverty outside the capital city and affluent areas.  Hospitals are ill equipped and non staffed.. carry health supplies with you and get to Santa Domingo or Puerto Plata if possible if you need hospitalization.  Many rural schools have closed because the teachers could not survive on their meager stipend.  The travel becomes dangerous near the Haitian border as Dominican police are scarce and not able to do much there.  Almost everywhere there are frequent blackouts.. most homes have a generator because this is a common problem.. dont count on electric shavers, hair dryers or other appliances and pack some candles in your bag when you venture on this route.  BE PREPARED to see things other tourists never see!  Dominicans are kind and generous and will go to extreme lengths to help you.  DO LEARN some Spanish as in rural areas you will need to communicate and most English speakers are in Metro areas.  Puerto Plata and Sosua in the north have large colonies of Jewish and German people so if you speak German you can find someone there.  I hope my comments here are helpful to someone.. and don't be afrade to venture off the tourist path
