This book attempts to answer one of the oldest and most controversial questions: Who are we? Believers in God hold that humans were Created as very special creatures able to have a relationship with the Creator and are made so for a reason. Atheists, by rejecting the notion of a Creator, are thus forced to be Darwinists: humans are mere beasts with superior intelligence, the product of millions of years of evolution; we are smart grandchildren of apes, nothing more. It's Creation Vs Evolution.


The authors of the book (Dr. Rana biochemist, Dr. Ross astrophysicist) are leading Christian scientists in the ''Reason to believe'' organization, who believe scripture and science are in no way contradictory but complementary. They hold to the day-age act of creation: the six days in genesis are not literal days as in a 24h concept, rather each day represents a period which could span thousand or million of years. Before God created man, there were animals and beasts that roamed the earth. Among those were the so called hominoids: Australopithecus, Neanderthals, Paranthropus, .... They were not the ancestors of modern man, but simply animals who had a lot of morphological, biochemical and genetic similarities with us. Humans did not come as a product of evolution, but were created separately by a miraculous act of God.  The striking similarities don't point to a common ancestor, but to a common Creator!! 

To prove this, the authors put a lot of effort discussing all the recent anthropological finds, and especially all the recent genetics studies and research. Some of the ideas discussed are the genetic similarities/differences among the hominoids, the fossil record and the dates, the morphological differences, the cultural aspect.... 

The material presented here is very well researched and well structured. Also, I think the theory they provided is very much reasonable and convincing but with a lot of question marks that remain to be answered. The book is extensive in its coverage and is not afraid to expand in its scientific explanations. Although this is one of its strong points, it also proved to be its weakness: some information are presented in so much detail that it is easy for the lay-reader to get confused and at times pretty bored. Also, instead of building a positive case for Creation, the authors' strategy was to pin point the big amount of mistakes and loopholes in the theory of ape-man evolution.

I wished the book discussed the midway theory in all of this : the theistic evolution. I think there are too many points against "naturalistic" evolution (natural selection, random mutations, etc..), and yet some strong evidence for an evolution of some sort. Could it be that God used the laws HE made, the nature HE dictated how to work, so that at one point in time  HE chose where and when a single hominoid received the `'breath of God''? It may be stretching both scripture interpretation and science to its limits, but I think it's worth discussing. 

With this book, I had a wealth of new information although i disagreed with some minor conclusions used to prove creation. Nevertheless i think if we weigh the evidence, we'll see that science strongly point towards an act of creation: my faith AND my scientific logic tells me i was created by God, but as to the "how" of that matter, the answer is still a bit blurry.

Recommended reading for the scientifically inclined.
