It is mentioned that this is the second half of our life so this is the chance to get fit and stay that way. The book is helpful to perimenopausal women since we are prone to toxic stress. There is a list of what triggers this stress that settles in around the waistline. We must learn how to distinguish between hunger and stress induced appetite. Hormones play a big part in how we consume food during various times of the month as well. 

The book is presented in two parts that includes the three templates of stress-resilient regrouping, nutrition and physical activity. There is also a chapter on how to learn to lift weight to lose the weight. Part I goes into how stress puts on fat. There is also a glossary, index, listing of major muscle groups as well as a walking test. 

The woman who are in this age group now are also the first ones to have been on the pill so this is interesting to the researchers on dieting and stress. Many years ago physical activity was a major part of daily life but that has changed over the years with this generation suffering. 

Before you can begin the weight training you need to evaluate and assess your level. Fight Fat After Forty has two worksheets to complete the same day as the heart check is done. The keep it sublimely simple (KISS) home workout plan is the primer for the over forty woman with the reminder to drink plenty of water and avoid dehydration. The saying, "fitness over forty rules" seems to work for me! 

Fight Fat After Forty is based on research from the National Institute of Health. Dr. Peeke is a clinician and scientist who first read about Stress and eating in an article in Shape magazine back in 1988 that spoke of the correlation between stress and fat. There are many stages of stress, which result in making you sick, fat and frazzled. I have used the term frazzled to describe me many times. 

I feel this is a book to start reading at the age of thirty-five to identify your target stress factors, changing the way you identify foods and implement an exercise plan that is life long benefiting. By listening to your body you can stay ahead of the fat that shows up after forty and before the menopause arrives.

