What attracted me to this book was the idea of mastering a large number of melodic units, not just licks or phrases, but "get down to the essence of it all" core building blocks, and learning them in every key.  The book presents this concept about "cells" and does a fairly good job in organizing the material so that the student can set up his or her own practice plan and get off on a path that should lead (hopefully) to great success. The presentation of the cell concept by Steiner makes an important contribution to Jazz study and at the same time results in a very compelling piece of educational material--at one point in the text, Steiner breaks down Coltrane's towering Countdown solo into a small handful of component cells.  Fascinating stuff. 

What's good about the book.  The exercises start out very simply so that even the beginner can get on the ride.  At times the reader is left to connect the dots, but for the most part every thing is here to put together a meaningful study plan.  The student is provided with several sets of chord progressions (or alternately Key progressions) that are very handy.  The practice sets of musical cell exercises are gradually expanded to include longer runs, patterns, and sequences where the student is constantly prodded to work through all the keys and progressions.  The practice suggestions are quite numerous and thoughtful. There are definitely some golden nuggets of knowledge to be found here and the material should be very helpful in developing a productive practice routine.

Some critical suggestions.  For the serious artist, I am not yet convinced that we have stumbled onto The Holy Grail.  This book must be only part of one's immersion into the world of Jazz.  The author covers a lot of important points but at times I wanted the discussion to be more thorough.  For example, I would have liked a justification of building musical ideas from cells that was based on the aural and artistic experience of the musician, rather than a somewhat sterile development of the concept based on intervals.  In one sentence in the book, Paul Hindemith is referenced as having had previously using the term "harmonic cell," but this is hardly an exploration of the development of Steiner's concepts within the Jazz idiom. The exercises at the end could have contained more suggestions about how the students practice sessions might develop or what the student might notice or start to become aware of as he or she progresses.  

I do think that this book should be in your backpack as you head into the woodshed.  This book successfully accomplishes what it sets out to do, albeit at times with an economy of words.  I can't think of a reason why you would not want to buy this book.

