John Steinbeck's The Red Pony is a deceptively simple "young reader's" book that blossoms into full life meaning when examined as an artfully presented novella.  The brief 100-page work reads like a four-paneled painting which, viewed from the proper perspective, should be appreciated for what it truly is--a remarkable rendition of realism in 20th century American literature.

What to expect from the book:  Expect four loosely connected short stories or vignettes, not a tightly woven epic plot.  Expect crisp, articulate prose, without the extravagant detail, depth of characterization and flowing drama afforded by a longer work.  Expect to experience thought-provoking, coming-of-age events in a young Salinas ranch boy's life, not the entertaining action of a Hollywood thriller.  Also, expect to have to dig a little to understand the author's message, not to be spoonfed the theme of this unique work.

Here's my view of the thematic "glue" holding the individual stories together:

1.  Boy learns about death:  In "The Gift," 10-year old Jody learns through the sudden sickness, suffering and gruesome, buzzard-pecked death of his beloved red pony, Gabilan, that even "happy" gifts can result in sadness and loss, despite the best efforts of well-intentioned adults.

2.  Boy views consequences of the ways of man:  In "The Great Mountains," Jody sees how compassion has its economic and cultural limitations, when father refuses to honor the old paisano, Gitano's, request to live out his remaining years on the ranch where he was born.  Consequence: Gitano disappears into the lonesome mountains towards the west, riding father's decrepit horse and ominously carrying only a sharp-bladed rapier.

3.  Through loss comes hope:  Against a gloomy backdrop of loss, "The Promise" builds hope but culminates in the harsh choice between life of birthing mare and her breech-positioned colt.  The bittersweet outcome, death of the mare to save her colt, is difficult to accept but does offer at least a glimmer of optimism.

4.  Despite life's trials and tribulations, its fullness arises from having a sense of purpose:  The final story, "The Leader of the People," mentions neither the loss of Jody's red pony nor his presumed raising of the newborn colt.  Instead, the connection to the other stories and unifying message of the novella can be found, in my opinion, within the final, almost trivial event:  "Grandfather was about to refuse, and then he saw Jody's face," which led him to accept Jody's offer to make him a glass of lemonade.  Importantly, through the simple act of accepting Jody's offer, Grandfather nourishes the boy's sense of purpose.  Although Grandfather's own life purpose has withered since that unforgettable year decades ago when he led a group of settlers out west, the boy's life lies ahead with plenty of potential for a purposeful future.
 
In sum, out of death, and love, springs life's potential:  When life has a purpose, however big or small--from caring for a pony to returning to one's birthplace to die, from being a leader of the people to making lemonade for a loved one--we not only live but thrive.  The Red Pony is a sensitive affirmation of life--recommended reading for anyone willing to experience a little darkness before seeing light.
