I found this book to be quite an eye-opener. I've been one of the countless left wondering why 1) ordinary voters would choose to put people in office that are obviously inept at advancing sound fiscal policy (we are about to reach 8 trillion in debt  after 20 years of Republican-controlled budgets) and 2) how arch-conservatives get bills passed that are known to be unpopular with the majority of the people. Thanks to these authors I now have an understanding of what is happening in America, and it has little to do with the country turning to the right (Michael Moore was accurate on that point.)

The first revelation is that many voters are increasingly robbed of their preferred choice: a moderate Republican, leaving them only to choose between an radical right Republican and the Democratic choice. This is because radical activists like Grover Norquist and Tom DeLay put a lot of money in primary caucuses in order to defeat middle of the road Republicans. Because most people don't pay attention to or come out to vote in primary elections, activist radicals on the right can control the choice of candidates in the November elections.

Even more enlightening is the authors description of how ultra-conservatives in the House and Senate (ab)use Robert's Rules in order to set and accomplish their agenda. For example, after the House and Senate vote on their versions of the bill, the bill is supposed to go into a commitee that makes compromises between the two versions. Hastert, DeLay and Frist stack this committee with arch-conservative dittoheads, and basically rewrite the bill so that all of the radical right's agenda is conserved, while any moderate or liberal inclusions are excised. But at this point, no one can protest; the rules of Congress only permit an up or down vote. So in effect, the arch-cons can basically right their own laws without having to allow debate.

Yet I'm only giving this book four stars because it lacks some detailed explanations. Those of us who aren't apprised of tax laws need more exposition than the authors want to give. It would be nice to find a book called "Corruption for Dummies" that would explain how campaign finance and tax laws are manipulated by the likes of the PACs and lobbyists. That is not to say you should not purchase this book. You should. You must. It is way better than the usual political fare out there.

One more thing, that review who says that 64% of donations under $200 dollars goes to Republicans is lying. In the last election Bush and Kerry received about the same amount from -$200 donations: about $60 million
