_Earthly Powers:  The Clash of Religion and Politics in Europe from the French Revolution to the Great War_ by British historian Michael Burleigh provides a fascinating history of the conflict which developed between the churches and the modernist political religions.  Burleigh, whose previous work has focused on the Third Reich, builds upon the theories of émigré German philosopher Eric Voegelin, who argued that the modern day political religions constituted revivals of the Gnostic heresy.  Voegelin was a conservative political philosopher who had escaped the German Third Reich and came to write on the political religions, especially communism and Nazism, the two great totalitarianisms of the Twentieth Century.  Burleigh also notes the importance of Raymond Aron, who spoke of the "opium of the intellectuals" in their zeal for totalitarian systems.  The use of the term "totalitarian" has proven problematic for many historians, particularly Marxists who seem to believe that communism did not constitute the sort of evil to be found in Nazism (the universal "bad guy").  Burleigh rejects these Marxist notions arguing instead that totalitarianism remains a useful category.  

What this book does provide is a fascinating account of the various political conflicts brought about by the coming secularization of the preceding centuries from the French revolution onwards.  Burleigh begins by discussing the utopian schemes of Dominican friar Tommaso Campenella as a precursor to his discussion of the coming political religions.  This sort of utopian dreaming was to crop up again and again during the coming centuries.  Burleigh next turns his attention to the "Age of Reason, Age of Faith", showing the conflict that developed between the Gallican church and the Jesuits.  In particular, Burleigh references the works of Pascal and other Jansenists, who he argues came to resemble Deists in their belief that God had turned away from a fallen world.  Burleigh also discusses the Philosophes and the conflict between them and the Ancien Regime.  In the subsequent chapter, Burleigh provides a detailed account of the French revolution.  Here we see firsthand the crimes committed in the name of "Reason" by the satanic revolutionaries.  Burleigh considers two painters, who played an important role in the creation of the myth of the revolution:  Johan Zoffany and Jacques-Louis David.  Burleigh also explains the role of philosophers such as Rousseau in the revolution but also conservatives such as Burke and Toqueville.  Burleigh also explains the role of the Jacobins and the subsequent role of the church in the creation of the counter-revolution.  In particular, Burleigh considers two counter-revolutionary thinkers, both important traditionalist Catholics:  Joseph de Maistre and Louis de Bonald.  Burleigh also discusses the turns in the thought of Lammenais who began as a traditionalist opponent of the revolution but later embraced it and left the church entirely.  In addition, Burleigh discusses the role of Napoleon following the revolution.  Next, Burleigh turns his attention to "Political Messianism and Nationalism".  Here, he considers the rise of various nationalisms including German, Irish, Polish, and Italian nationalism, mentioning such figures as Mickiewicz, O'Connell, and Mazzini.  Burleigh also considers the role of secret societies in the formation of these nationalisms.  Burleigh next turns his attention to the modern "faiths", considering the role of scientific developments such as Darwinian evolutionary theory in the decline of religious faith.  Burleigh also notes the role of socialist utopians such as Robert Owen, Fourier, and Comte (who was apparently mentally unbalanced).  Subsequently Burleigh turns his attention to late nineteenth century Russian thought.  He notes the role of various anarchists and nihilists, who believed themselves to constitute a sort of "new man".  Burleigh also goes into a detailed discussion of the life of Dostoevsky and his writings, explaining the conflicts in the Russian soul.  Burleigh subsequently turns his attention to the rising conflict between church and state.  Burleigh begins this discussion by emphasizing the role of Pope Pius IX as well as showing the growing conflicts that had developed in the Anglican church and the rise of the "Nonconformists".  Next, Burleigh turns his attention to "The Churches in Industrial Society".  Here, he shows the conflict which developed between Christianity and Christian social teachings and "Mammon", as it developed in Victorian England.  Burleigh lays out the role played by various social and labor organizations and their role in curtailing the excesses of industrial capitalism.  Burleigh examines both Protestant and Catholic social thought.  In particular, he shows how thinkers on the right came to embrace the social question, not to be outdone by their leftist and socialist peers.  Burleigh explains the role of Catholic social teaching, emphasizing the thinking of such individuals as Le Play, but also noting the importance of labor in the papal encyclical _Rerum novarum_.  Burleigh also explains the developments in German thought, the role of romanticism, but also the coming place of anti-Semitism in nationalist thought.  Burleigh also provides an account of Charles Maurras and the Action Francais.  Finally, Burleigh turns his attention to the Great War.  Here, he explains the role of the churches, both Catholic and Protestant, in support of the soldiers fighting the war.  However, Burleigh notes the conflicts that developed between proletarian soldiers and upper class ministers.  Burleigh ends with a discussion explaining how the role of the Great War led to the development of the modern day totalitarianisms:  Fascism, Nazism, and Communism.

This book provides a fascinating account of European history and will be highly interesting to any reader seeking to understand the conflict between the church and the political religions as well as the coming role of secularization.  As another reviewer has noted, Europe remains besieged by a whole host of problems brought about by the modern age and only a return to the Faith can save it.  This book provides a fascinating account of how those difficulties arose in the past centuries brought on by the onslaught of the French revolution and further developed by the horrendous ideologies of communism and Nazism.

Finally, I should add that I did not find Burleigh's style to be too particularly difficult and I enjoyed reading his accounts of the various individuals within.  He offers the reader much to think about and keeps him fascinated with many obscure details of history.
