There are similarities between Fitch's earlier WHITE OLEANDER and PAINT IT BLACK, which strike me. Both are about a young woman whose life is overshadowed by that of a mercurial older woman. While in OLEANDER it was a mother and daughter, in BLACK the two women are linked by the suicide of the girl's boyfriend and the woman's son.  Both books are also set in a vividly rendered Los Angeles.  

One major contrast is that OLEANDER has a sweep of several years, most of the action of PAINT IT BLACK takes place within eight weeks.

Fitch's prose is simply astonishing and what elevates this novel.  Her descriptions are deeply burnished, the work of a woman who loves words. I would reread passages because of their beauty. And yet the effect is never pretencious or oblique. It's been several years since I read OLEANDER, but this novel strikes me as being even more rich and literate.

And yet this same brilliance is perhaps one of the things that also bothered my about Fitch's novel.  Though it is told in the third person, we are very much seeing the story through the consciousness of Josie Tyrell, a 20 year old punk rock girl from Bakersfield with little education.  So much of the time her observations seem that of a woman well beyond her age, experience or sophistication.

The central relationship of the story revolve around the love-hate relationship that ensues between Josie and her dead fiance's famous, wealthy mother.  The two find themselves attracted to the one person in the world who understands their grief, yet also distrustful of one another.  But I'm not sure this relationship ever becomes entirely credible or rises above literary conceit.  Fitch creates too many betraylls and too much well-placed anger for us to accept that Josie would continually let down her guard with a woman whose motives can never be trusted.  I'm not sure I buy why they keep placing themselves in one another's orbit.  

And most frustratingly, when they do finally settle into a relationship in which there is some mutual trust, they never open up to another, never ask the obvious questions of one another that would help explain the mystery of the suicide of the young man they both loved. 

But this remains a novel I highly recommend.  It is engrossing, deeply felt and extraordinarily well-written. 
