I've long thought that historical myths about emotional topics, even if they support the correct conclusion, are of no help to anyone. Take, for example, the Scopes Monkey Trial. On the whole, the story you've probably heard about it is more or less correct. But it's probably not entirely correct. Some myths I'd learned back in school were that Scopes defiantly taught evolution in his high school classroom, that William Jennings Bryan was humiliated on the stand, and that the jury's small fine was a slap in the face to the prosecution. All of these are in fact false. It would be nice if they weren't, but they are. This and more can be found in Edward Larson's Summer for the Gods.

To clear up these myths, and I'll leave others for Larson himself, Scopes was a regular physics and math teacher, but was only subbing for the regular biology teacher. He didn't even realize at the time that the textbook contained problematic material. He was a bit defiant, in that he sat down with leading town figures and agreed to let them prosecute as a way to get publicity for the community. The jury award was delivered quickly and enthusiastically by good ol' boys who were happy to convict. As for William Jennings Bryan, he was shown to be ignorant of science but he wasn't particularly bothered by it, or if he was then he didn't show it. In fact, fundamentalists throughout the country thought his poor performance brought shame to the defense for playing such a dirty trick on the guy. This was before the creationist movement abandoned him in later years. It seems that aside from his religious fundamentalism, Bryan was a leading progressive of his day. This issue and his support for Prohibition are the only serious black marks on the man's record, and he stand partially redeemed in these pages.

Larson is not contemptuous of the Scopes trial legend, but he does clarify what really happened and why. That it began as a publicity stunt does not detract from the importance of what the defense was trying to do. But this leads into the importance of clearing up historical myths. It does no one any good to argue a false point out of ignorance because somewhere out there is an opponent who knows the story correctly and it never helps to look stupid on the facts. I know this concept goes back at least as far as Augustine, but it's timeless. The real story, in all its gritty detail, is more interesting and helpful for our historical understanding than what you may see watching Inherit the Wind - which is, by the way, a very poor adaptation of the actual story.

I wouldn't hesitate to recommend Summer for the Gods. Besides being an interesting topic, it is as much fun to read as anything. It apparently earned Larson a Pulitzer in history, which is a testament to his engaging writing style. There is nothing within these pages to detract from the political and moral issues of the Scopes trial legend, but there is included here the real story to give life to a fine moment in history.
