Expertly crafted by Jennifer Gonnerman, this biography traces the life of Elaine Bartlett, a resident of a housing project in East Harlem, who at a young age was arrested for selling a small qualtity of cocaine to an undercover police officer in 1983.  She was subsequently sentenced to serve 20-years-to-life under the draconian Rockefeller drug laws.  From 1984 until she received executive clemency from Governor George Pataki, Bartlett spend the next 16 years in the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility, where she initially experienced some adjustment problems before becoming a model prisoner.  Following her release on parole in 2000, Bartlett returned to a dysfunctional and stressful life and to a world that had undergone substantial changes.

While she availed herself of some educational and self-improvement programs during her period of incarceration, Bartlett was ill-equipped to deal with the complexities of urban life upon her release.  Saddled with a questionable value system, Bartlett experienced difficulty in finding suitable employment, managing her limited financial resources, maneuvering the social service system, avoiding persons with criminal records, reestablishing herself as the mother of her children, and providing some semblance of order to her chronically troubled family.  Were it not for a few responsible friends, a forgiving employer, and an understanding parole officer, she would have likely found her way back into prison.

Despite her personal limitations and the challenges she faced, Bartlett survived her period of parole supervision and was discharged in 2003.  According to the author, Bartlett celebrated her release from parole "by going to the apartment of a former coworker and smoking weed."

Life on the Outside is a remarkable book in that the author has been successful in "getting inside the head" of her subject and, in doing so, she has provided an honest, revealing, and instructive case study into the life of an offender.

This is a well-researched book on post-incarceration issues, and it could easily serve as a supplemental text for a college course dealing with correctional policy
