The irrepressible Penn Cage is back again as the protagonist of a complex, action-packed page-turner set in Natchez, Mississippi. Penn Cage, former lawyer and prosecutor turned author, is shocked to discover that his best friend, Drew Elliott, successful local physician, has been having a tumultuous affair with gorgeous Kate Townsend, 17-year old high-achiever in the local high school. Kate has been found dead after being raped and strangled in the creek near Drew's home.
 
Drew asks Penn to represent him as his lawyer, and though Penn feels unprepared due to their long friendship and inexperience in capital cases, he temporarily acts as investigator and offers legal advice until he can find a more suitable defender. Drew claims that Kate was already dead when he found her at the creek and believes that Kate's dealings with some of the low-life drug pushers in the area may have been the actual cause of her death. 

The trail of evidence points inexorably to Drew, and as each day passes, Penn is sickened and horrified by the revelations, though Drew continues to profess his innocence. Drew claimed to have been deeply in love with Kate, but Penn can't get over the unsuitably of such a dalliance, particularly the 23+ year age difference, and the fact that Drew is married.

The plot complexities stem from the entangled web of drug pushers and users that have invaded the quietly deteriorating back-water town of Natchez. It seems that every kid in the area, even the "good" ones, have attended the raves, are sexually promiscuous and are at least experimenting with, if not actually using a variety of drugs.

The multiple sub-plots humanize and allow us to empathize with the characters: Drew's flawed marriage and painkiller-addicted wife, Penn's faltering love life with Caitlin, Penn's respect and admiration for his father, and Penn's close but charged relationship with Mia, his daughter's 18-year old babysitter. 

The plot twists and shocking revelations make this an engrossing story that will keep you immersed to the end. I will definitely be keeping Greg Iles on my list of favorite authors for a quick, absorbing read.
