This is a wonderfully lifelike book about a young boy named Jim, told in letters, prose, and vignette-like chapters.  The author's voice is so rich and true, much like that of Harper Lee in To Kill a Mockingbird.  The characters are well-drawn and they treat one another like family, with practical jokes and eccentric habits.  They take Jim on "mystery" trips to the ocean, the mountain to visit his dying grandfather, and to see a farmer about buying some Belgian work horses. We see it all from Jim's point of view, and his feelings resemble the feelings we all have of riding in cars with relatives, playing  baseball, going to school open houses, etc.  

The main plot, if there is one, is how Jim gets along day to day without a father, who died at age 23 of a heart attack before Jim was born. We see how Jim forms a mental image of his father from the stories older villagers tell to Jim, who knew Jim's Dad as a boy.  Jim's father, or the image Jim creates of his father, is always with Jim and with his mother, who refuses to remarry since she considers herself still married and in love with Jim's father's memory.  We feel Jim's sense of differentness because he does not have a Dad; we see how he reaches out to his three uncles, to a local traveling salesman, the local African American farm workers, even his best friend's Dad, who has more new stories to tell Jim about his father.  This is just a book about a slice of life during the Depression; not some big epic, and what life was like for a boy in a mountain hamlet.  That is what makes this book so special, so intimate, so appealing.  It is excellent and I am considering buying it for our church library because most any child can relate to Jim's life--dealing with bullies, making friends, how to treat a friend who gets a life-threatening disease (In this case, polio) and how to deal with school and family.  I enjoyed this book very much.  It is a quiet little masterpiece.  Kind of like a fly in amber  --fascinating and timeless.    
