Yeah, go ahead. Ask. "You calling Randy Singer an idiot?" No, I gave the book 4 stars. That means I really liked it! In fact, it was brilliant. Next question. "OH... so are there actually (gulp) idiots in this?" Yeah, don't be an idiot! Next! "Who are the idiots?" I'm not telling you or anybody else. Read it and find out! I've got a review to do... GEESH! Oh yeah, read on. 

This was yet another Singer stunner. I thought it lacked on zip here and there, but all in all it was quite the enjoyable read for this long-time fan. All you have to do is check out the title to see who the main character is... His Honor, Judge Oliver Finney! Know who else get spotlight time in this? You know she's been waiting for some page time, especially since she's been around since "Directed Verdict." That's right, we get to drive fast with Nikki Moreno! Yeah, she's the sexy one, and does this prove she has a brain? You should already know if you read Singer at all! And don't be surprised if you get a glimpse or two of Mitchell Taylor. Ya gotta love that guy!

But who is Oliver Finney? What's so special about him? He's going to represent Christianity on reality TV! Yeah, so you might expect competition from a Muslim, maybe one who practices Hinduism, how about a Buddhist? I loved the idea of a cigar smoking judge, but strictly Phillies? Yuck! Being a cigar enthusiest myself, Finney struck me as one who might enjoy an Arturo Fuente after dinner, or maybe a nice Romeo Y Julieta. Read a little bit deeper and he'll strike you as a code man. What's that mean? All in the book, just ask Wellington Farnsworth.

You may even wonder if this will deepen your faith in Christ? It just might. For some, it could possibly be a renewal. If it does, then you'll know that means letting go a little, and letting The Holy Spirit do His job. It does have some touching moments in it as well. This and a lot of good stuff, including an island. But beware of danger lurking about in some places. 

Fans of Randy Singer will enjoy this, but I didn't really consider this among his best. It is a companion with "The Cross Examination of Jesus Christ", but I bet Harriet told you that already, didn't she? Just kidding. Hey, I have yet to read a Randy Singer book that didn't grab my attention, and those who enjoy his work won't be disappointed!

