OK, I just finished it. And I think it is *great*.  

I grew up in Baltimore, and I keep thinking about moving back. I was not-quite 14 when the '66 Series happened. It *was* and *is* the biggest sports-moment of my life. And this book did a wonderful job of bringing it back to life.

If you weren't there then, it's hard to appreciate how much of an upset the Orioles' sweep was. The Birds had never won squat before. And this was at the very height of all-time Dodger success. This was their 3rd WS in 4 years. They had won both of their 2 appearances in the previous 3 WS, including a 4-game sweep of the Yankees. They had Koufax and Drysdale. Koufax had just had a stretch of 4 seasons that was the best 4-year-stretch that any pitcher ever had, ever. Plus, the achievements of the Dodgers felt even bigger than that, simply because you never got to see them. Very few games were on TV, and there was no interleague play. So they were not just huge, they were huge of mythic proportions at the time. I remember before the Series, I just prayed that the Birds would not embarrass themselves. I just hoped they could go 7 before they lost. I'm not a wimpy fan, but that's just how it was then. It was like the O's-Mets in '69, but in reverse and even more-so. Except that the '66 O's weren't a fluke, they were the start of a dynasty... and the end of the Dodger dynasty. Neither Koufax nor Drysdale ever made the post-season again.

The best inning in all of Oriole history was the first inning of the first game, out in LA. F-Robby hit a 2-run dinger that barely cleared the fence. Then Brooks followed with a solo shot that their LF just watched disappear *way* into the seats. And just like that, everything changed. Everything changed for the Series. Everything changed for the Orioles. And a whole lot changed for Baltimore. If you care about noteworthy World Series, READ THIS BOOK!

I think some Maryland-people are being *way* too thin-skinned about the author. Yes, he screwed up in *several* places by referring to Baltimore as Maryland's capital. That's just dumb. What's even dumber is that he didn't have anybody from Baltimore proof-read the damn thing. He also made another more-subtle error. When talking about Spiro Agnew, he referred to him twice as "a Baltimore County executive". He wasn't "a Baltimore County executive", he was "the Baltimore County Executive", which was his job title. That's more subtle and more understandable because Baltimore is unusual in that the City is not part of the County. But so what? The author goofed, but he didn't goof about anything that matters about baseball or about the City. Some people are mad at him for his comments about race-relations at the time. What he said was true. He didn't say anything wrong about that. Just ask Frank, he'll tell you about not being allowed to live anywhere except in "certain neighborhoods". There's no point in getting all self-righteous about it. The Baltimore area was different then. It really was.

Some folks are also making a big deal about the author's treatment of Vin Scully vs. Chuck Thompson. I loved listening to Chuck Thompson. I think he was great. But Vin Scully *is* great. He does something amazing by calling the game by himself. He does a wonderful job of talking to the audience. Even now, sometimes at night if I don't want music or TV or quiet, I'll listen to a Dodger game even though I don't care about the Dodgers at all. I do it just to listen to Vin Scully talk. The guy is truly amazing. Listen to him sometime with an open mind. The author didn't say anything bad about Chuck. The worst you can say is that he didn't make a big deal about how good Chuck was too.

The only thing I wish was different is that I coulda used a few less Wally Bunker quotes. The author made it sound as if Wally Bunker was down on the City and as if he thought the O's were lucky to just win. I don't know what Wally Bunker thinks. I know it was fun watching him try to get 20 W's in his flash-in-the-pan '64 rookie year, that's all I really know. Maybe Bunker has a critical attitude of the City and the team, but I don't know what he really thinks, all I know is how the author quoted him. Maybe Bunker said other things that didn't get quoted. I don't care much, because Wally Bunker doesn't matter all that much. Except for Game 3, when he pitched the best game of his life with a sore arm. The other thing that made me wonder is that he kept calling Frank "Robby". Maybe that's what they called him in the clubhouse, I don't know. But what I remember is that you couldn't just say "Robby" because we had two of them. You had to say "F-Robby" or "B-Robby". At least, that's the way I remember it.

But those are *little* things. If you care about the Orioles and/or about important World Seres, and you want that '66 Series to become real to you, then don't listen to the people who are crying about where the captial of MD really is. Instead, go ahead and *READ THIS BOOK*! I think it's *really really* good
