Laurel and Hardy are the eternal image to many of down-on-their-luck individuals struggling just to get by in this world, and in his book "Stan and Ollie" author Simon Louvish explains why they appeal to us after almost a century has passed since their first film together. In an exhuastive and well-paced dual biography of the world's greatest comedy duo, Louvish provides insights into the two men who jointly comprised a team that was embraced the world over.

Stan Jefferson (Laurel) and Oliver Hardy could not have come from more different backgrounds: Laurel's father was a North England theater manager who dabbled in play-writing, and his son became an actor on the stage just as vaudeville was on its way out and films on their way in. Hardy never knew his father, a Civil War veteran and local celebrity in their part of the state of Georgia. Both men took long routes towards the inevitable pairing, as Louvish demonstrates in what can be felt as a "teaser" of near-misses and almost-rans between the two when they both arrive in Hollywood in the mid-teens. But in 1927, they finally teamed up and started what would become the most celebrated partnership in film comedy.

Throughout it all, Louvish gives us a portrait of the men behind the image that is all the more important to know. Hardy, the jolly fat-man, was actually self-conscious about his weight and struggled to keep it under control. Laurel, the simple child-like companion, was something of a ladies man, and the tales of his multpile marriages (including a series of ill-timed weddings to the same woman over the course of years) make for an interesting glimpse into his troubled private life.

Laurel and Hardy, together briefly during the last days of the silent era, were able to transcend the barrier of sound, and they may well have been meant for the new entertainment form. Louvish details how they not only survived in the wake of other silent performers (Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd) falling out of favor, but indeed prosper and contribute some of their best material in the early Thirties.

Throughout the book, Louvish intersects accounts of the films they made together with some of the personal details that helped to shape their time together. He also addresses the odd fact of their embrace by the gay community, and Hardy's troubled Southern heritage and what it may have meant to the era of the Thirties (when openly racist portrayals of the black race ran rampant and unchecked). Stan Laurel emerges as a particularly harried figure, as his constant marital troubles become the fodder for Hollywood gossip mavens (a precursor of the current swath of "celebrity marital trouble" stories circulating in today's entertainment-obsessed media).

In the entertaining way he critiques their work (first the golden years at Hal Roach's studio, then later the Twentieth Century Fox and MGM films), Louvish comes off not as a grumbling critic but a genuine fan, one who has sat through the dreck as well as the highlights. He can be trusted to give the straight story on the flops as well as the classics ("Sons of The Desert", "The Music Box", etc). Louvish's style is not the dry, bare-bones approach of more "scholarly" approaches to film, but he has the right amount of reverence to make up for any percieved flippancy towards his subjects. After all, his profile is that of a comedy duo, not an auteur like Kubrick or Godard.

Louvish successfully argues, what's more, that the films of Laurel and Hardy (while not meant to be artistic statements) are worthy of close study and even analysis for their place in easing the country through the Depression and the Second World War (a claim that he puts forth for the lesser Fox pictures, though acknowledging their flaws). What's more, the friendship between Laurel and Hardy is genunine, unlike so many comedy partnerships that seem fraught with tension.

The book is probably the closest we will get to knowing the real Laurel and Hardy, as well as understanding their most memorable films together. It will definitely be the first thing I recommend for L&H neophytes, and for diehard fans as well. Put simply, this is the book to read if you want to know about the greatest comedy duo of the film age.
