I first came across this book as a set of audiotapes on sale at  a discount store.  I knew nothing about the Mexican war and decided I want to hear the tapes.  What a surprise how interesting and informative the novel was and how well Jonathan Davis narrated the tapes.  I wound up getting the book, reading the book at home and listening to the tapes as I drove.  There's nothing like well-written historical fiction that presents the facts and adds interest by the fictional characters.

Shaara is probably correct in saying the Mexican war didn't receive the historical attention it deserved because the Civil War followed so quickly.  Shaara, writing during the Iraq War and noticing the similarities in media second-guessing and widespread disapproval of both wars, brought those sentiments into his portrayal of the Mexican War.  The second-guessing and disapproval during the Mexican War, however, were even more intense than with the Iraq War.

Some wars are difficult to understand and even harder to justify.  It takes decades to get a valid historical perspective on them and their consequences.  Shaara has the main characters  (characters that really existed) wonder about the motives and purpose of the Mexican war.  Shaara gives a very well balanced appraisal of both the war and the main characters that fought the war.  Many soldiers whose names we know from the civil war also fought in the Mexican war, notably Robert E. Lee.

Lee, along with Major-General Winfield Scott, are the main characters in "Gone for Soldiers."  Shaara portrays Lee in a very sympathetic light.  I hadn't considered Lee that way because I knew he fought to dissolve the Union.  After reading "Gone For Soldiers," I now view Lee differently.  He appears to have been a good man, highly dedicated and principled, and certainly a hero in the Mexican War.  Shaara, in his last chapter, traces the lifelong careers of his main historical characters.  Lee's commander, Major General Winfield Scott, himself a Southerner, felt the Union should be preserved.  Lee felt he could not fight against the people of his own state.  He resigned from the army.  Later he accepted a commission from Jefferson Davis and became the commanding general of the Southern army.  Scott, when he realized what Lee had done, told Lee:  "You have made the greatest mistake of your life."

I agree with Winfield Scott.  This is a prime example of how difficult it is to choose correctly when you don't know the long-term consequences.  I think fighting to preserve slavery was a big mistake because slavery is morally wrong.  I think the long-term judgment of history is always harsh on those who advocate what is morally wrong.  We all have a similar dilemma today with abortion; and all of us, black and white, are caught up in the issue of abortion.

But there were also political ramifications.  Had the South prevailed and left the Union, the Northwest States would have made a second succession.  The people planning this Northwest Conspiracy were encouraged by France and England.  Had the Union not been preserved, Americans today might reside in three small countries, perhaps in conflict with each other as the European nations have been for the past 150 years.  I think Lee would turn over in his grave if he felt he had any responsibility for that.

If you like history, you will enjoy this excellent historical novel that dramatizes what really happened during the Mexican War.  The most interesting part of the book is the last chapter where Shaara discusses the careers of the real-life characters you got to know so well in the earlier chapters.
