Hollinghurst is quoted as having said that if you come to this book looking for your normal sort of "fall from grace" story, you will be disappointed. 

He's right. 

Hollinghurst has also said that he is more interested in analyzing characters, in protraying them vividly, than in populating his books with people you are likely to identify with or actually care about. 

He's right. 

Many people have described Hollinghurst as a new genius of prose, as a writer of skill that is long missing in novels from any part of the world. 

They're right. 

So what's wrong with The Line of Beauty? Not much, but what IS wrong, like a tiny microbe or virus, seems to infect the whole thing. 

Read with an eye on the craft of the words, this book is absolutely stunning. Hollinghurst's abilities as a novelist are truly astounding. Even the rather lurid and not particularly tasteful sexual escapades of the novel are crafted with a precision and glory that keep them from wallowing in the muck of which they are made. The affairs, the drugs, the betrayals and the promiscuous, anonymous trysts -- at heart they are what they are, but carved out with Hollinghurst's pen, they become more than that. 

Unfortunately, not MUCH more than that. 

The deeper meanings, the symbols of the 80s fall from grace, the metaphors woven into the events, these are all admirable evidences of a fine talent, but in the end, the novel seems to stumble over its own style, it clutches at its own class. 

During a debate over music, Nick muses this about Strauss: "What the problem was was this colossal redundancy, the squandering of brilliant technique on cheap material, the sense that the moral nerves had been cut, leaving the great bloated body to a life of valueless excess." This phrase could equally apply to the book in which it is found. 

At its heart, the book claims to be about a search for beauty in all its forms. Hollinghurst has said that Nick, the timid protagonist, comes to a realization that the outer beauty of the priviledged men and women with whom he lives disguises a deeper moral ugliness. I found it odd that he would mention beauty of a moral nature, since, in this novel, there really is none, either of a conservative, relativistic, religious, or liberal nature. Nick, caught up in his life of drugs and unchecked sexual hunger, doesn't prove himself to be any more or less beautiful than those people whom he analyzes and with whom he is ultimately disillusioned. 

Even if you were to approach this book from the plane of one looking for a totally intellectual experience -- the realm of the observer observing, not judging or conspiring with the story or characters, but simply taking the events and people as they are presented by the almost flawless prose -- well, even then, the sum total of the events turns out to be rather facile, and even the opposite of what it intends. In spite of the gorgeous writing -- Hollinghurst's ability to describe almost anything with a grandiose and supreme ease of grace -- in spite of that, the book itself borders on being rather ugly. 

Don't get me wrong. I do not make this assessment because the book is about homosexuality, or political scandals, or the dark deeds of the overpriviledged. I make this assessment because, in the end, Hollinghurst's tale does not rise above its subject matter, even if the writing itself does. 

For those of you interested in literature, interested in a reawakening of the style of fine writing and pure form, this book will be a treat, but in the end, is more like a fancy, overpriced appetizer that leaves you wanting much much more
