Named for the mythical (?) and mystical kingdom in the East, Shambhala Publications is known for bringing some of the greatest and sometimes most obscure philosophical writings of Mankind to the attention of the general public. Heavily (though not exclusively) concerned with Buddhist and Taoist thought, Shambhala Pocket Classics are an attractive set of unabridged minibooks which fit comfortably in a shirt pocket, making them perfect for reading on planes, trains, and automobiles. Titles in the set include THE BOOK OF TEA, THE ART OF PEACE, ZEN FLESH ZEN BONES, THE TIBETAN BOOK OF THE DEAD, POEMS BY EMILY DICKINSON, THE ART OF WAR, THE WAY OF THE JEWISH MYSTICS, and this unequalled classic, TAO TEH CHING (roughly translated as "The Book of The Way"). 

TAO TEH CHING is ascribed to Lao-Tzu ("The Old Boy"), an approximate contemporary of Confucius, who when asked to summarize his own philosophy, produced this incredible little volume before vanishing into the trackless wastes of central Asia. Long considered by Westerners to be the very essence of Oriental inscrutability, TAO TEH CHING attempts to quantify the immeasurable and speak the ineffable. The Old Boy is far less opaque than he is accused of being; it is simply that human language is too limited to concretize the ideas of TAO TEH CHING. Literally thousands of translations exist, all different. Many people have attempted to describe the Tao (pronounced "Dow" or "Taw" depending on the local dialect). No one has yet succeeded. The mere act of description is a delimitation. Conceptually linked to flowing water or a candle flame, Tao is the natural order of things (but even that fails to suffice). The Tao, like Quantum Physics, must be grasped intuitively. The Book of the Way had a grand effect on Chinese Confucianism, on Japanese Shinto, and on Indian Buddhism as they spread throughout the Far East. Lao-Tzu's spare, clear and indescribable vision ultimately gave rise to Zen, with which it shares the necessity of direct experience. Neither religion nor philosophy, TAO TE CHING is one of the most brilliant and enigmatic writings to come from the mind of man
