Says comic book guy:  Consciousness Explained...most pretentious title ever!  Few will finish reading Dennett's 528-page book and say to themselves "Well that explains it."  In fact, Dennett does not claim to explain consciousness, saying instead that he paints, in broad strokes, the outline a scientific, non-question-begging theory of human consciousness would take.  Addressing the merits of such a theory are difficult, and Dennett provides two appendices, one for scientists and one for philosophers, aimed at tying his claims to specific experimental predictions.  That's a start.

Dennett has been accused of being long-winded, taking readers on long asides or cascading mind games until his main thesis has been obfuscated to oblivion.  That's harsh.  I don't value Dennett in spite of his asides, but because of them.  His thought experiments and analogies are brimming with insight, even if, in the end, their additive effect fails to sum up to a complete explanation of consciousness.  In fact, this is a ubiquitous feature of books about human consciousness, from Dennett to Hofstadter to Pinker--the epistemological journey is always more fascinating than its final destination, which seems forever tentative or illusory.

Dennett starts with thought experiments aimed at setting the mood for the rest of the book, including a perspective on hallucinations, from phantom-limbs to full blown phantom-people, that whets the appetite for the meal to come.  He moves on to the first opponent of his theory--Descartes' "ghost in the machine" dualism, exposing it as scientifically defunct from a physical point of view.  He spends much of the rest of the book battling what he calls Cartesian Materialism--a vestige of Descartes' idea of a central theatre of human consciousness within the brain.  His alternative, dubbed the "Joycean Machine" or "Pandemonium Architecture" of human consciousness does not crop up in a well-defined form.  Actually, a more important title would have been What Consciousness Isn't.

Consider the following that form Dennett's foundation.  Human beings and chimpanzees diverged from a common ancestor about six million years ago.  Since that splitting off, the human brain has evolved to four-times its original size, mostly through the enlargement of the cerebral cortex.  The evolution of human brains was not correlated with an evolution of bipedalism or human culture.  No major changes in human neuroanatomy have taken place in the last ten thousand years, meaning that physiologically we are just as cognitively capable as our illiterate, language and culturally bereft ancestors.   With no hardware-level changes, Dennett relies on the concept of a meme--or a unit of cultural replication--for a software level understanding of his Joycean Machine.  The meme was first coined by Richard Dawkins in 1976 and is not an uncontroversial idea.  Consider this--the wiring of a Chinese speaking brain and an English speaking brain must be different due to different lingual memes, but no one with any certainty can tell a Chinese brain from an English brain.  Without a proper model of its physical manifestation, it's difficult to make the case that memes have high fidelity replication or fall under similar modes of selection as genes, which Dawkins proposed as their biological analogues.  In The Extended Phenotype Dawkins backpedals in the face of criticism for his meme concept, claiming its primary purpose was to highlight important differences between cultural and biological evolution, and not to frame an entirely new science of memetics.  Dennett partially agrees that such a science is untenable in Darwin's Dangerous Idea.  Still, he relies heavily on it in Consciousness Explained in order to frame a software-level understanding of human consciousness.

The best part of this book is Dennett's use of thought experiments and his analysis of certain cases of brain damage, including the split-brain procedures used to treat severe epilepsy and a model for understanding scomota, a condition of partial blindness.  His CADBLIND thought experiment, where he delineates a system of computer-aided design machinery for creating and manipulating a three dimensional image and answering questions about it, sheds light on our familiar misconceptions of the "mind's eye".  Similarly, his attack on the philosophical concept of phenomenology, often interpreted as an attack on the existence of consciousness itself, offers keen insight into how his views differ from traditional materialist takes on human consciousness.  In a review of one of his newer books on human consciousness, Susan Blackmore (author of The Meme Machine) regrets that Dennett has since changed his mind about some of the concepts of consciousness proposed in this book.  I think even if he completely repudiated the beliefs stated in this book it will still be worth the read.  Again, it may not explain consciousness, but it takes you on a journey that is epic in scope and interesting at every turn.  I highly recommend this book.
