_The Ancient City:  A Study of the Religion, Laws, and Institutions of Greece and Rome_ is a translation of _La Cite Antique_ of Fustel de Coulanges, first published in 1864, and made available as a translation by The Johns Hopkins University Press.  Numa Denis Fustel de Coulanges was a French classicist who devoted his attention to the ancient pagan civic religions of the Greeks and Romans, contrasting this with that of the Indians (Aryans).  His ideas concerning this ancient pagan religion were part of a milieu of social evolutionary ideas that included H. S. Maine and J. J. Bachofen.  He also wrote on the origins of the Gauls and French society and his ideas concerning their Roman origins were put to use by various extreme rightist organizations such as the Action Francaise of Charles Maurras.  The writings of Fustel de Coulanges have proven particularly profitable for many later French sociologists and anthropologists, though they were to come to reject certain of his ideas as not being confirmed by historical evidence.  Christianity played a special role in the theories of Fustel de Coulanges as the subsequent religion which overtook the pagan Greek and Roman civic religion and supplanted it with a universalist system.  In addition, Fustel de Coulanges wrote against the various socialist theorists of the time, emphasizing the role of private property among the earliest Greeks and Romans.  This book includes a Foreword by Arnaldo Momigliano and S. C. Humphreys which points to many of the central issues involved in the reading of Fustel de Coulanges and the text of _The Ancient City_ proper.

To begin, the author notes the essential necessity of studying the earliest beliefs of the ancients in an effort to understand their institutions.  The author next turns his attentions to the earliest beliefs about the soul and death.  In particular, the abode of the dead is discussed, as well as the need of the dead for food (noting that on certain days the ancients were to bring food to the tombs of the departed).  The author also notes the practice of the worship of the dead.  The deified souls of the departed were known as demons or heroes to the Greeks and as Lares, Manes, or Genii to the Latins.  The author also discusses the role of the sacred hearth-fire and the worship of fire.  This hearth-fire was always kept burning.  Next, the author turns his attention to the ancient domestic religion, emphasizing the patriarchal society that existed and the role of the family in that religion.  Each family was ruled over by the father, who may bequeath his rule to his eldest son, and each family preserved its own gods (the ancestors) and the sacred fire.  The author discusses such important aspects of the ancient family as marriage (in which a meal was shared between the bride and her husband initiating the bride into the worship of the husband's family), kinship, the right of succession, property (an important institution for the ancient family, though one that was passed down from father to son exclusively), authority in the family, and morals in the family.  In particular, the author also discusses the gens at Rome and Greece (noting the aristocratic nature of the Roman clan and showing the contrast between plebeians and patricians).  Following this discussion, the author turns his attention to the ancient city proper.  Here, the author notes how while the ancient domestic religion prohibited families from mingling, it was still possible for the ancient families to unite in a phratria (to the Greeks) or curia (to the Latins).  The author also shows how new religious beliefs formed, based on the worship of natural phenomena, invoking such ancient names for the sun as Hercules (the glorious), Phoebus (the shining), Apollo (he who drives away night or evil), Hyperion (the elevated Being), and Alexicacos (the beneficent).  The author shows that while the ancient family domestic religion involved the worship of ancestors, these gods came to be present for all.  The author discusses the city and its various customs, including the religion of the city and its gods.  Here, he notes such things as public repasts, festivals and the calendar, the census, and religion in the assembly, in the Senate, in the Tribunal, in the Army, and in the Triumph.  The author also discusses various rituals, the king, the magistracy, the law, and the citizen and stranger.  In addition, the author also discusses ancient patriotism and the means to exile.  Finally, the author discusses war, peace, and the alliance of the gods.  This brings the author to a discussion of the omnipotence of the state and the lack of individual liberty among the ancients.  The next section of this book concerns the various revolutions that occurred as plebeians demanded more rights from the ancient order, leading eventually to the creation of democracy.  In the first revolution, political authority was taken from the king (although the king was still to retain religious authority).  The author discusses this revolution was it played out at Sparta, Athens, and Rome.  At this time, the aristocracy governed the city.  In the second revolution, various changes occurred in the constitution of the family and the right of primogeniture disappeared.  It was at this point that the clients became free (the author mentions in particular the work of Solon).  In the third revolution, the plebs entered the city.  The author discusses this revolution as it played out at Athens and Rome.  The author also discusses changes in the private law, the Code of the Twelve Tables, and the Code of Solon.  In the fourth revolution, an aristocracy of wealth tried to establish itself and this lead to the establishment of democracy and popular suffrage.  However, it is in the conflict between rich and poor that democracy failed and popular tyrants arose.  The final section of this book is devoted to the disappearance of the municipal regime.  Here, the author notes how new beliefs arose as the traditional religious structures were changed to become more universal.  The author discusses the Roman conquest and the subsequent rise of Christianity.  By calling to itself the whole human race, Christianity made the most radical change to the pagan religion.

This book provides an excellent account of the earliest ancient Greek and Roman pagan religion that revolved around the family and its subsequent demise with the rise of the Romans and the beginnings of Christianity.  It is the universal message of Christianity that lives on from most ancient times.  This book is a fascinating sociological account of the ancient city and its religion and customs, showing in detail the ancient pagan belief system.  Fustel de Coulanges is very learned and argues extensively from many ancient sources, both Greek and Roman (but also mentioning ancient Indian and Hebrew sources as well).    
