I think it's probably safe to assert that to read Emerson is to be forever indebted to him. His wording, his clearness of thought, his determination, his warmth...He has all the qualities one could ask for a writer, and all one could ask for a mentor. Nietzsche held Emerson's books the closest, and said they were above his praise; Borges added " Whitman and Poe have overshadowed Emerson's glory, as inventors, as founders of cults; line by line, they are inferior to him." James, the very Whitman, Proust, Frost, have all also praised him sincerely. Judging from others reviews, the love for Emerson hasn't diminished, more than a century after his passing.

For those who are not familiar with his works, it should be noted that Emerson is, without a doubt, a very unique writer. I was surprised when I realized that there is more poetry in his philosophy than in most verse books, yet he is always lucid; and that his poems, although hued by an impressive depth of thought, remain always passionate. He was widely known as a brilliant lecturer, and his essays have all the force and immediacy of the oral form. Few people are so rich in memorable aphorisms -one finds a treasure of a quote in every sentence: "A drop is a small ocean"; "We are not built like a ship to be tossed, but like a house to stand"; "Whoso be a man, must be a non conformist"; "Punishment is a fruit that unsuspected ripens within the pleasure which concealed it"...I could go on forever!

This was one of the first books the Library of America ever published, and with good reason: Emerson's writings are a Library of America on their own. This volume contains most of his major works, with the usual LOA excellency: beautiful green-cloth binding; silk ribbon marker; clear, acid-free, bible-thin paper; a short chronology, and some annotations. (No introduction of any kind, also as usual.) In short: a must buy, whether you are new to Emerson or not. My only complain is that this represents only about half of his actual output, leaving out such important pieces as "The Lord's Supper"; "The Fugitive Slave Law"; the books "Society and Solitude" and "Letters and Social Aims"; his writings on Thoreau, Carlyle, Lincoln, and John Brown; and  many other pieces just as revealing as the ones included here -not even counting the 15 volumes worth of journals he wrote throughout his life. The fact that it's been more than a decade since the publication of the slight "Complete Poems and Translations" makes me fear LOA has neglected one of America's most beloved authors by giving priority to comparatively minor releases -like those on journalism and film criticism. Why can't Emerson get the same deserved treatment as Henry James, who by the way has now over 12 LOA volumes dedicated to his oeuvre? Just one more book would make this the definite edition of RWE's complete works; as it is, the huge and expensive Centenary Edition remains untouched as the most comprehensive edition available. The section on "Uncollected Prose" is also not included here anymore; I can only hope it means they are saving it for a future volume. (It's been 15 years since they took it out, so I'm not holding my breath.)
Those looking for a cheaper introduction should probably check out the excellent Modern Library's "The Essential Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson", which besides a very generous collection of essays has a nice introduction; a selection of poems; and a few important pieces not included here.  

To put it simply, if you have any interest in philosophy, literature, poetry, religion, or life, read Emerson. You may not be convinced by his arguments, but there's no point in nodding your way through a book. What remains after you finish reading them is what counts, and few writers can be found that are as pervasive and fondly remembered as he is.

