In the constricted world of Jane Austen's EMMA, there is a general lack of a sense that anything exists beyond that which Emma can see or Austen can relate.  Emma, her family, and friends live either in the small town of Hartfield or its equally miniscule environs. The action of the novel is more or less coterminous with the very real events of the Industrial Revolution, the French Revolution, or even just some whooping and hollering of some village bad boys.  This smallness of space is matched by a smallness of psychological depth. Austen tacitly assumes that good is ubiquitous, and where good seems to be lacking, its normal contrary is not evil at all. Those who show a deficiency of good either are merely mischievous or are incapable of doing no more than sputtering about their evil. Further, those who sputter do so in isolation and do not seriously disrupt the social order. They are neither punished nor remorseful.  In the interactions among the characters, Austen in EMMA makes a marked change in the basic makeup of her cast. In PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, for example, she shows only the landed gentry.  But here, Austen presents a definite variation in character.  It is this wider cast of type that allows Austen to play the magician and make the reader think that Austen's world is bigger than it is.  And at the center of this static world is Emma herself, who, in the canon of Austen, is the heroine only in the broadest sense of the word.  

For the first time in any of her novels, Austen gives the reader a heroine who has numerous grievous faults. Emma is a young headstrong woman who comes across as a huge snob. Emma describes Mrs. Elton, who is more purposeful in her mischief, as "self-important, presuming, familiar, ignorant, and ill-bred." Emma might as well have been talking about herself.  Readers who note Emma's genteel manner allow that surface patina of gentility to suggest that there is a basic difference between her and Mrs. Elton. This difference is more a matter of degree than in kind.  In her harsh treatment of Harriet Smith and disparagement of Jane Fairfax, Emma is more than thoughtless; she is downright sadistic.  The best that can be said for her is that in the benevolent atmosphere of Jane Austen, nastiness is not permitted to materially affect the outcome. Those who are nasty are rendered impotent in their nastiness, like Mrs. Elton, or are allowed to improve by degrees through a slow process of self-realization, like Emma. And it is this growing understanding of Emma's own faults that is at heart the theme of the book.  The plot, which is really an incredibly contorted series of misunderstandings based mostly on Emma's constant misapprehensions of who loves whom, is the hook by which the theme comes into play.  Regardless of who tries mightily to set things aright, the only one who can teach Emma to look inwardly for wisdom is Emma herself.  The comedy that results from all these miscalculations sets up the satire which arises from the contrast between the way Emma misreads relationships and the way that the readers do not.  Despite the fact that some readers complain that the smallness of setting renders the smallness of the morality as insignificant is to misunderstand why each new generation of reader finds Emma to be an uplifting vision of the regeneration of a woman that is probably not unlike many of her readers.
