I settled into this book expecting to hate it but fueled on by the need to finish it for a pressing book club meeting.  What I came to realize was that it was real.  This is a story of a woman who, through a jag of self-reflection, comes to realize that she is who she is because of the choices she has made.  At the beginning, it seems that she has, indeed, become the wrong person.  If she had followed her first "path" clinging to sadly pathetic, totally uninteresting Will Allenby, her life would have been different...but not necessarily better.  Instead she has a chaotic existence as a party-planner who hosts every kind of celebration in her own home while continuing to be the only real parent her 3 step-daugthers and 1 biological daughter have ever known.  She is a witty, vital woman with a family life so full and vibrant it seems funny that she wishes (for a time) that it could be some other way.

This book is really about the passage of time and what comes when we become "adults" who think that the mystery and longing of our dreams can no longer have sway in our lives.  Rebecca (Beck) comes to realize that dreams are not just for little kids and they never materialize in the way we want or expect they will, but they do happen.  I think she moves from an adult who feels stagnant in her life, to a child-like woman who can recognize that life is really about moments and what we choose to do with them, than accomplishments or who we are seen with.

The best part of this book is that it is not "chick" lit, an assumption that scared me at the beginning.  This book defines the difference between settling for a life that's dictated by circumstance and settling into a life one has sculpted over time through decisions made consciously.  The characters are vibrant and, although not always likeable, somehow shockingly real in their humanity while the story moves in such a subtle way, the reader is almost surprised when it's over.  Yet, the ride is comfortable and real, leaving me longing for just a little more.  I think that's the mark of a great novel and this one has it
