One of the more unique novels to come out of the literary underground is Richard Perez's "Losers' Club," a captivating little novel about love, writing, clubs, and New York in the mid-90s. Gritty and edgy, it's also darkly funny (even hilarious). And in a peculiar way, very sweet and romantic.

Martin Sierra is a lonely aspiring writer in a dull, uninspiring job. He's searching for a woman he can talk to, a friend as well as a lover. And he has met that woman -- and she is Nikki, a bisexual gal struggling through the end of a dying lesbian relationship. They hang around the glittering clubs and bars of New York's nightlife, perfectly in sync, except for Nikki's lingering sense of guilt that she shouldn't be growing so close to Marty.

Marty's addiction to the personal ads reaps a pair of promising responses: Lola, full of rage and anger, and with a disturbing personal life; and Amaris, a gothic "creature of the night" with morbid interests (she once let a vampire gal suck her bleeding finger), and who has flings with the students she teaches. Martin's professional and personal life takes several strange twists, leading him to where he should have gone all along.

The New York of "Losers' Club" is a stained semiprecious stone. A superficial glittering mass of bars and clubs, full of people who expect no more from it. The inhabitants are all at least a little loserish, but intriguingly so (say what you will about Amaris, she ain't boring!). Transsexuals, goths and vampires, angry artists, frustrated writers, guys on eighteen-inch-glow-in-the-dark platform shoes, and some people who just like to hang out and watch Andy Warhol flicks. Despite the downbeat title, this is a genuinely funny, witty book (the most hilarious part is the collection of ad replies that poor Marty wades through -- some stupid, some discouraging, and some that are just creepy).

The newly restored edition is radically different from the original, however -- large chunks have been put back into the narrative, which takes away the stripped-down feel. But it gives it better flow and more insight into the characters, and in the end it's worth sacrificing the "minimalist" style. There's also some extras at the back: a book discussion club guide ("In what ways might the main character be perceived as a 'loser'?"), some related writings, and an intelligent interview with Perez sprinkled with literary references.

Perez's writing and study of his characters is reminiscent of 80s writers like Jay McInerney (except sprinkled with some very nice poetry). Maybe Dave Sedaris on acid. But he's not so busy appealing to readers' sense of cool that he forgets to keep them emotionally involved. Flashbacks reveal Marty's past with his mentally-ill, abusive mother, whom he harbors a sort of sadness for. Little flashes of dialogue reveal a lot about the characters' souls, and what kind of people they are. (Like whether they believe in fate, or talk to tombstones.)

It's hard not to like Marty. He aspires for something like happiness, and seems unable to reach it. But he is the sort who'll find it eventually. Nikki is a good balance of the realistic and idealistic -- while Marty sees her as all but perfect, we see she has doubts and insecurities too. Lola and Amaris are, in a way, enigmas -- we only see hints of what they're really like, and we learn about them as Marty does.

"The Losers' Club" leaves the reader with a sense of bittersweetness. An unusual and compelling little novel, an unconventional story about love. It will leave you with a smile -- not a grin, but a little smile
