The Artist's Way is the quintessential program since 1992 for artistic recovery. Pioneered by Julia Cameron, this book has spawned study groups around the world for artists who finally claimed their art. There is no better informal personal mentor than Julia Cameron for the writer or poet who seeks a wise guide to help them through the process of writing their art alive.

The Artist's Way is designed as a 12-week program in recovery of the soul of an artist. In an overly left-brain logical world many people turn away from their artistic calling by creating very powerful blocks to their expression. Writers become workaholics, poets turn into volunteer junkies, painters indulge in codependent relationships, singers shadow other artists in fear of their own work being "not good enough", and songwriters live a trauma-drama lifestyle rather than create lyrics about it. The difference between a floundering and thriving artist is the freeing up and satisfaction of creative energy. When a naturally creative person represses their muse it becomes like a spoiled inner child that lashes out against the world by manifesting in creative blocks, addictive behavior, and many other forms of intense distractions. To thrive as an artist it demands the cultivation of a lifestyle and people in one's life who support the artistic life. The Artist's Way builds the writers life from the inside while encouraging the elimination of poisonous playmates, shadow artist activity, crazymakers, and perfectionism among other things. If you are a writer who doesn't know where to start ... start with the Artist's Way because the practical tools are what you need to begin the journey to reclaiming your voice.

Cameron introduces the practice disciplines of Morning Pages, Artist's dates, and other tools to recover from a blocked life. Each week follows a particular theme similar to the program in Cameron's Vein of Gold. The 12 weeks described in the Artist's Way are: safety, identity, power, integrity, possibility, abundance, connection, strength, compassion, self-protection, autonomy, and faith. The intention of the program is to create in a person a commitment to their own art. For the writer, Cameron coaxes out the rut that many a wordsmith falls into. She tells you to give yourself permission to write badly, to make grammatical mistakes, to go with the flow of a stream of consciousness, and to just write three pages no matter how imperfect the words may be. The cure for the writer is to write. Cameron addresses not only the practical aspects of writers' block but some of the subconscious issues such as negative thinking that plagues many who yearn for the artistic life. This is a nurturing tool for those who are confronted by the very notion that they must be MORE of who they are rather than try to fit into a template of what they believe they should be.

Give the gift of a creative heart alive once more to yourself ... and you will be surprised in your dreams!  I had heard of the Artist's Way in college and read a copy from time to time but when I really applied the practice in 2004 ... Cameron's informal mentoring did the trick to unblock my creative expression. My artistic dreams were focused on literary pursuits but a sudden interest in singing caught a life of its own when I joined a formal Artist's Way group composed of 7 people. Before I knew it the practice lead to a solo performance at a cancer benefit gala show in September 2006 where I sung "I Hope You Dance" by Lee Ann Womack and was told I sounded alot like her. Nonetheless, if Cameron herself had told me in 2003 that I would be a singer ... even I would have laughed! The point is ... if you want your heart to lead the way ... allow the artist to thrive and express itself without intellectual editing ... and see your creative experiences soar!


