Had it not been for the movie it was the basis for, I would never have learned a Big slice of the truth about Vietnam, and I'm thankful I found a softbound copy of this for just the equivalent of US$4.95 in Philippine pesos last year.

A Bright Shining Lie is the life story of John Paul Vann, one of the most controversial, yet indispensable, figures of the Vietnam War. What's more epic about this book is that the one person who knew him real well from Vietnam took SIXTEEN LONG YEARS to write, collated from a large collection of sources dating back to the war: taped interviews, printed materials (including the Pentagon Papers), and experience from being a UPI war correspondent.

Neil Sheehan did a commendable job by compiling all the facts about John Vann's early life: his being born out of wedlock, a literal SOB, and his experiences at Ferrum, to name a few were all good parts to read. He was also able to shed light on the stories about his relatives, and how they all connected with Vann's. 

Aside from what I've read in other books about the Dien Bien Phu siege, Bao Dai and the rigged elections of 1956, I did not learn more about the early history of the Vietnam War until I read A Bright Shining Lie. Once again, in the chapter "Antecedents to a Confrontation", Sheehan's star shines as he detailed the history of Vietnam's struggle for independence and resistance to foreign domination (by taking note of some of Vietnam's early heroes such as Nguyen Hue), starting from the Chinese, all the way to the Japanese, French, and later the Americans. It was in this book that I first learned that the term "Viet Cong" was actually American-made, and Edward Lansdale, the man behind Ramon Magsaysay's success in the Philippines, had a role in placing Ngo Dinh Diem as South Vietnamese leader, thinking he could repeat what he did in the Philippines. The passages about the Denunciation of Communists campaign in 1955-56, the near-draconian rule of the Ngo Dinhs, plus the endemic corruption, and discrimination of other religions and people in the rural areas (no thanks to Diem's usage of his Catholic friends as administrators) further undermined Diem's ability as a leader for the Vietnamese people, and he was obviously ignorant of the signs.

The Battle of Ap Bac, the major skirmish that brought the Vietnam War to a whole new level, has an entire chapter devoted to it, and narrated in exquisite detail on both sides, and included a map Vann wanted to use in briefing the Joint Chiefs.

The battle, it's aftermath and the repercussions from it, gave Vann the ammunition he needed to confront the senior military leadership on how they ran the advisory effort in Vietnam. He knew what was wrong and made it his mission to make them understand, but the passion with which he pursued his goal was paid in full by a lot of frustration when, due to some politicking by officers who didn't like Vann, he was denied the chance to brief the Joint Chiefs just when he was already at their office, ready to go.

I would have loved to add more of my thoughts about such a riveting book as this, but I've ran out of things to say. Hopefully I can add more later..

Great book!         
