I am always sad to finish one of Mr. Winchester's books; they are definitely not to be read in one sitting and because they stay with you for so long, it is as if you have finished a memorable semester by the time you put the book back on the shelf.  True, they are discursive--but wonderfully so, and "Crack" more than most.  Indeed, the cover serves as a hint of things to come--folded into a cover is a surprisingly large poster--just as the ideas of this book are much larger than they first appear.

If one truly wishes to understand the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and the geological, sociological, historical and other effects that rippled outward in time from the central namesake event, one must prepare for a journey.  As with any great journey, some parts are better and more interesting than others--but the combined and lasting understanding of the science and history to be derived from reading this book is unequalled.  Suffice it to say that upon completion of "Crack" the reader understands earthquakes and their impact upon our world.

Think of your favorite lecturer in college and you get a sense for Winchester's style--a style wryly self-referenced as bloviation.  His diversions are often entirely unexpected (and not always entirely supportable) but enjoyable and thought-provoking nonetheless.  He communicates a sense of the joy of scholarship and discovery--being able to drive up to Alaska, for example, just to see how the big pipe fared in the massive Denali quake; being able to utterly discredit the worthless dreck rushed into print shortly after the disaster; pointing to that most Californian of attitudes--the stunning failure to take advantage of the opportunity to re-create San Francisco according to a grand master plan, a mistake echoed in Southern California's loss of the redcars in favor of freeways.

What Mr. Winchester desperately needs is a format that allows him more graphical content.  Something along the old TimeLife science series or the Dorling Kindersley formats.  Anyone that can work opera, immigration, Arizona's meteor crater, Watson Lake bashing, fault finding (geologic) and roadtrips into an interesting book about earthquakes needs all the resources he can get.  Give the man a series and run him around the world like Michael Palin
