William Shakespeare's play "Much Ado About Nothing" was an extremely funny piece of literature. I thought that it was very cleverly planned out and humorously executed. With Dogberry and his men constantly mixing up words and their meanings it gave the readers a comic relief. The deceit and mistaken identities added so much humor to the already capturing story. 
I believe that Shakespeare's main point in writing this play was to show that many times, people get worked up over simple miscommunications. You mishear something wrong, or in your anger, you tune out someone before getting all the facts. All that we would need to do to fix a certain problem would be going to the source of the information, but many times we take the easy way out. We jump the gun a little and choose to believe whatever is told to us despite our gut feeling that the information is wrong. 
An example of this would be when Leonato has heard of Hero's scandalous evening with Borachio. Despite the fact that she is his daughter and he would know her better than anyone, Leonato believes the lies told about Hero. Leonato, being her father and the one who raised her, should have known his daughter well enough to know that she would not dishonor her fianc and herself. Especially the night before the wedding that she has been waiting for. Instead of choosing to believe his daughter, who firmly denies any and all sexual relationships, he joins Claudio, Don John, and Don Pedro in disgracing her. 
One lesson learned from "Much Ado About Nothing" is never should people automatically assume something to be correct. We should "take everything with a grain of salt"- test everything. People in the world these days are so willing to lie to us and readily do so without a second thought. Many times people are lied to without even knowing that someone has done so. True, sometimes the lying and deceit is all in good fun, but it still has the possibility of hurting someone. Even innocent lying has its consequences. 
Benedick and Beatrice both believed almost immediately that what they had overheard their friends saying in the garden was correct and completely true. Neither person decided to test what they had heard. To see if what was said was true. Because both did not check to see if the information they heard was correct, everything worked out. Both assumed what they had heard was true and acted on it. There were no visible consequences. What a mess you would have if Benedick decided that what he had overheard could not possibly be true. Beatrice would have made a fool out of herself while thinking that Benedick felt the same way. The same could be said the other way around. 
I would recommend this play to other readers. If people don't like to read, then I would not tell others about it. The combination of not liking to read and the difficulty of understanding Old English would not make a very fun and pleasurable read. Many would miss out on the humor and cleverness that Shakespeare brilliantly displayed to his audience. Readers on the other hand would most likely like this play. The humor and lightheartedness makes it an enjoyable play. I found myself constantly wanting to know what would happen next and how it would end- how Shakespeare would wrap it up. The happy ending was also a nice touch. Yes, the Old English adds a challenge to the reading. The sometimes hard to understand language makes you stop and think about what Shakespeare is trying to say and ultimately makes you stop and realize what he is truly trying to communicate to his audience. 
