I almost hate to admit, especially as a fifth grade teacher, that I have never read a book by E. L. Konigsburg. Not even the highly popular From the Mixed-up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler. That is until recently when I purchased a copy of her 1997 Newbery Award winning book, The View From Saturday and decided it was time. 

When given the task of assembling Epiphany Middle School's sixth grade Academic Bowl team, Mrs. Eva Marie Olinski sought out four shy individuals who call themselves, The Souls. Noah Gershom, Nadia Diamondstein, Ethan Potter, and Julian Singh make up this quirky group and it's their four stories (interlaced with their Academic Bowl championship match) that account for the heart of this story.

One of Konigsburg's biggest feats (in my honest opinion) is how each one of these characters has been given their own voice. With four different first person narratives going on, this could not have been an easy job. But Konigsburg pulls it off flawlessly. Noah is sophisticated for his age to the point that his classmates could easily refer to him as a dork, but he's proud of it. Nadia is a witty girl, wallowing in self-pity because of her parents' recent break-up and her father's favoring of going on turtle walks instead of spending time with her. Ethan is extremely shy, which is interesting because he's the one character I feel as if I don't really get to know. Maybe Konigsburg planned it that way. Julian is the new Indian kid in school and it's his Saturday morning tea parties that eventually bring The Souls together, long before Mrs. Olinski even chooses them. 

Every so often, I would have to stop reading and just marvel at how many balls Konigsburg had up in the air, given that the plot of this tale revolved around an academic quiz bowl. Amazingly enough, she never dropped one. It's laugh-out-loud funny at times, especially Julian's insistence on the word "TIP" being counted as an acronym. It's very sad at times, especially Nadia's father's ignorance when she decides not to go on a turtle walk with him and her grandparents. And it can be downright mean at times, like how Mrs. Olinski is treated by a few of her students on her first day of returning to school, after becoming a paraplegic. Konigsburg has a lot to say and it's a wonder she's able to cram it all into these 163 pages.

While I thoroughly enjoyed this book, it got me thinking a lot about the Newbery Award. Is the committee truly in touch with the children that their winners are aimed at appealing to? Maybe they need a few teachers on the committee! I loved this book but being a fifth grade teacher, I would find it difficult to recommend this to any of my current fifth graders and maybe only a few former students who are now sixth graders. My students (and former students) do not talk and act like the characters in Konigsburg's book and I think that this would turn away many interested younger readers. Maybe that's part of Konigsburg's charm. If her goal was to create a book about children that adults would love, then kudos, but if she set out to create a book for children about sophisticated children, I would have to say it may have missed it's mark.

There's no doubt that Konigsburg can write, and I will definitely be reading another one of her works very soon. I just hope that children find as much knowledge and wisdom buried in these pages as I did
