This novel picks up five years after "More Tales of the City".  but it doesn't really pick up until the second half of the novel, when the plot revolves around the mysterious Luke, a homeless man with a shack in Golden Gate Park. Mona Ramsey is not in this one and Anna Madrigal is hardly seen until halfway through the novel. I was surprised, as Anna is the focal point of the series and my favorite of the characters.

The basic plot of this novel continues the storyline that began in "More Tales..." when DeeDee Halcyon Day ran off to Guyana to join members of the People's Temple in Jim Jones' nightmarish utopia.  When "Further Tales..." begins, the massacre at Jonestown had happened, leaving DeeDee's mother severely depressed and lonely (her husband Edgar died at the end of "Tales of the City", her son-in-law died in "More Tales...", and now she's despondent that her daughter seems to have died as well). Mary Ann Singleton is now the host of a daytime show where she introduces classic movies; and her relationship with the womanizing Brian has grown into couplehood. Michael Tolliver, we discover, is no longer with Jon and living out his fantasy of hooking up with cops, movie stars, and construction workers.

This novel rests on the entire fallout of the Jim Jones tragedy and it kept me up late as I wanted to read chapter after chapter. Armistead continues his brilliant pacing, dialogue, and intriguing twists, all elements that make this, like the others, an addictive reading pleasure. By the end, the situation involving the kidnapping of children and a wild goose chase resolves itself in an interesting manner, reminding me a little bit about how the first novel ended. To reveal any more is to give away the surprises, so this is one you should read to discover for yourself. Ultimately though, I think "More Tales from the City" is the best of the three I've read and I found this one a pale imitation. I do plan to read the other three novels in this series, because the characters are people I can visualize and have come to know as friends I'd love to have. I only wish that Anna played a larger role in this one
