I do not know what came out more clearly from this book, it was either that America has so many vulnerable points that protecting them is a job that is almost beyond comprehension or that what we have done over the past 3 years has not had much of an effect on core security.  The author, who has been involved in Americas security needs for his whole professional life, is concerned.  He sees significant and numerous holes in the homeland security apparatus that has been reengineered since the 9/11 attacks.  He spends a good deal of the book detailing out one threat after another, even going so far as to spell out a multiple dirty bomb attack that made me think I was reading a Clancy book.  He focuses on the not very flashy, but important base infrastructure components that effect every day life.   Transportation, electrical power, emergency services to name a few.  The other half of the time the author details out the many ways the current Federal government bureaucracy is working is such an inefficient and idiotic way that one could make the case that their efforts might actually be making us less safe.  

So did the author over state the case, is the book one massive country ending catastrophe after another that only the sharpest minds in Hollywood could have thought of?  I do not think so.  The favorite boggy man of this type of book is the famous nuclear suit case bombs that the old USSR seemed to be able to make is production line efficacy, but then called in the keystone cops to administer security.  Then a disgruntled Al Queda agent some how buys one and smuggles it into the Super Bowl or some other such high profile event.  Well the book stays away from this fiction novel favorite and focuses more on the more probable conventional bomb similar to the 1993 WTC attack.  The author spells out any number of ways this could happen and the effects one or multiple of these type of bombs could cause if they were placed with some forethought.  The picture is concerning and just maybe border line dramatic.  After all significant events happen all the time in the US and we pull through.  Just think of the massive destruction caused by the Florida hurricane season in 2004, state wide and huge yet the US was able to provide services to the effected areas.   Could one bomb do as much wide spread damage?  No doubt the death toll would be hire but the country coming to an end comments seamed a bit much.

Overall I enjoyed the book.  Just don't settle in for too long, the double spacing and rather thick margins made me think of college when I was tying page formatting tricks to get the desired page count on a particularly difficult term paper.  I would have liked more detail and the author could have helped his cause by expanding on his proposed homeland security over sight board.  Did he over play his case?  I don't think so, I just do not think the book will get to a wide audience because of the message.  Who wants to read page after page about how our government is missing the boat on one of it not its most important duty.  It makes for rather spooky reading.                    
