CIVIL WAR GENERALSHIP is a treatise on the nature of military command leadership written for the popular market. To make his case, author W.J. Wood, an ex-Army war gamer for weapons system analysis, focuses on three battles: Cedar Mountain in August 1862 between commanders Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson and Nathaniel Banks, Chickamauga in September 1863 between commanders Braxton Bragg and William "Old Rosy" Rosecrans, and Nashville in December 1864 between commanders John Hood ("The Gallant Hood") and George Thomas ("The Rock of Chickamauga").

In a prefatory Part One of the book, Wood pretty much establishes the lack of any formalized pre-Civil War military thought in the U.S. Army as to how battles should be fought and won. West Point, attended by all the aforementioned commanders except Banks, focused mainly on engineering; during the four-year curriculum, only nine hours were devoted to battlefield tactics. Thus, the army commander had to learn his skills through on-the-job combat experience during his ascent through the command structure.

As a reader possessing a casual interest in the Civil War history, I can find only minimal fault with this brief (245 paperbacked pages) treatment of the topic. Indeed, the concise and lucid summaries of the three selected battles, each one supplemented by more than adequate maps, were, for me, even more valuable than Wood's dissection of the leadership skills displayed by each of the six protagonists. After all, a century and a half after the War Between the States, the battles of Cedar Mountain, Chickamauga, and Nashville are sometimes lost against the backdrop of confrontations considered more pivotal to the final outcome, e.g. Vicksburg, Gettysburg, or Appomattox, or simply more high profile, e.g. Shiloh, Antietam, Chancellorsville, Fredericksburg, or Cold Harbor. 

At no point does the author explain why he chose these three particular battles and their opposing generals for his book. By definition, each commander had to be exercising independent field command of an army at the time. And perhaps his choice of battles was unconsciously limited to those not including Grant, McClellan, Lee, and Sherman, whose names pop up with consistent regularity in popular Civil War history and whose careers have been fields well-plowed by historians. 

Wood's examination of the characters and personality traits of Jackson, Banks, Bragg, Rosecrans, Hood, and Thomas adds an endearing human element to the work as a whole. It also leads to my only minor criticism of the book, which is that no epilogue describing the post-battle careers of the six is included. Jackson, of course, was mortally wounded by friendly fire at Chancellorsville, but the remaining five, as far as I know, survived the Civil War, and it would be nice to know what happened to them without having to resort to further research.

