It might as well be said right off the top: Stone is clearly not a scholar of classical Greece. Although Stone acknowledges his amateur status, it is clear that it is false modesty: he clearly believes that his lack of formal training in classics is a point in his favour. An enlightened amateurism, supposedly uncorrupted by years of indoctrination into the hagiocracy of accepted scholarship, is a pretension he shares with many journalists, who seem to think that an entertaining and provocative story is more important, interesting and "true" than a complete and accurate story. So much for Stone, but what about his book?

I first read Plato's Apology, Crito, and Phaedo (Plato's description of the trial and death of Socrates) in first or second year university. As it is to many young people, it was a moving experience, and one that set the stage for much of my later interest in Greek history and philosophy. The execution of Socrates has usually been treated as a stain on the otherwise monumental achievements of Athens. The contrast between the Athenians' receptiveness to a multiplicity of ideas has always seemed to me, and to many others, to stand in stark contrast to their handling of Socrates. (This seeming contradiction is a useful one, however, since it reminds us that ancient Greek culture, while incomparably influential on Western civilization, was not a uniformly noble affair). Stone questions this seeming contradiction as a journalist would and finds more worldly reasons for the execution, namely that the Athenians believed Socrates to be an active opponent of the democracy, whose teachings directly counseled his pupils (especially Critias and Alcibiades) to commit treason by siding with the Spartans to install an oligarchy in Athens. 

Stone's central premise is not new. Scholars have long called Socrates a scapegoat for the loss of the Peloponessian War. Even ancient sources (e.g., Aeschines in Against Timarchus) acknowledged this, more or less. Stone, however, attempts to reverse our sympathies. To him, Socrates is less a scapegoat than a traitor and an enemy of the people. Unfortunately, the "evidence" for his interpretation is really his perception of human nature as viewed through the lens of the Cold War, rather any actual factual contemporary Greek accounts supporting his point of view. This lack of evidence is why classical scholars have, correctly, been less assertive in their interpretations of Socrates execution. Stone is much too certain, as should be expected from someone who styles himself a "maverick" and "non-conformist". 

To his credit, however, he calls on us to remember how turbulent and emotional were the times in Athens following their defeat at the hands of the Spartans and after having endured the tyranny of the Spartan-installed government of the Thirty. He brings this feeling to life for modern readers by imagining how America would react had it lost the Cold War to the Soviet Union, subsequently enduring and then defeating a Soviet-installed tyranny.  Might not Americans be forgiven for prosecuting and executing some of the more vocal and influential pro-Soviet academics, especially if their most famous students were active Soviet collaborators? 

In summary, then, this book gets low marks for scholarship and style, but high marks for bringing a turbulent period in western civilization to life in terms that the average person can relate to. I give it four stars because it is worth reading
