
This election year that's seen soullessly traitorous liberals degenerate into abominably more disparagingly insane, partisan venom segregatively against the president, it's comforting to have a tome produced by an author who neutrally doesn't take sides. Mann appreciably rejects vitriolic-motivated emotions for a sweeping, authoritatively cumulative approach at chronicling some of the Bush Admin.'s top policymakers, self-named after the Roman god of metalwork, proving even ex-LA Times correspondents are capable of fairness. To be sure, Mann's culpable of prejudices like opining Vietnam was a failure and taking the hardest stance in the Iraq war's aftermath, akin to squalid anti-war biases. Mann's aim is to scrutinize the six foreign policy advisers to inspect the influences their belief systems formed through experience have in shaping Bush's current policies. Thankfully, these six aren't suffering from liberals' "moral relativism", the notorious term that equivocally subordinates liberals to believe that hostile regimes will play fair, a side-effect from their refusal to judge anything.

While liberals are afflicted with an obsession of "balance of power"-cruelly unrighteous mentality whereby upright systems like America willfully overlook blatantly genocidal regimes like the former USSR and present-day Arab countries-these Vulcans nobly insist on intervention when a regime's oppressive, likely communistic and thus hostile. However, the contrast must be emphasized that before Democrat Jeane Kirkpatrick theorized in Commentary magazine's article that America employed double-standards for regimes that were pro-US versus communist ones, neoconservatives weren't keen on pushing democratic reforms on governments that were aiding America despite their personal abuses. The discomfort for neoconservatives was the Shah of Iran's pitiful example of democracy-instillation, as American influence unintentionally equaled Islamofascist revolution. Later on, America would successfully invert this slight apprehension to encourage democracy in the Philippines in a non-pestilent manner. There, the Reagan Admin. subtly pressured Marcos to resign to preempt a potentially genocidal coup by the bastard Communist movement arising out of the leftist gutter because it was gaining additionally antagonistic incitement under Marcos' dictatorship. 

The Vulcans believe in one overriding philosophy dictating their policy: American military power is unmatchable and used to advocate defense of America's national interests and democracy. This philosophy's most visible materialization is Iraq today, where Bush's policies are implanting the foothold in democracy, modernity there (Bush's policies ARE progressively successful, fearmonger liberals!!!!). If the stereotypical anti-war/liberal crowd schemes to chide neoconservatives for the American buildup in unequaled military dominance, this book provides the refutation to their scapegoating. America's unreachable military might is solely an effect of other countries' post-Cold-War retrenchment in military budgets, as the Soviet threat disappeared, except America's leaders were savvy enough to foresee likely menaces emerging from areas beyond mere Soviet domination, such as the Middle East. Wolfowitz, particularly, was the author of a foreshadowing paper-Limited Contingency Study-that predicted precisely the shift of critical attention to the Middle East as the newly perilous zone where to expect invasion because of its vital oil supplies. While exorbitant-liberal felons like Teddy "Alcoholics Anonymous" Kennedy were misjudging to direct the suppositionally available funds from the reduced Soviet danger to unpromisingly sweeping, social-spending programs, Bush I's Admin.-Cheney, Wolfowitz, Powell-were maintaining that America required a steadfast level of military spending.

RotV is covertly useful in murderously derogating the iniquitous brand scheming liberals cast on Bush-that he's "unilateral". Mann orderly tabulates the times throughout the nineties where America was already qualifying itself to take more "unilateral", more independent, positions in the post-Cold-war world and thus solidification of lone superpower status under BILL CLINTON!!!! That's right, obstinately discriminatory liberals-CLINTON initiated American "unilateralism" by, while not declaring North Korea, Iraq and Iran as the proverbial "axis of evil", grouping those dictatorships as the "three thoughest challenges faced" in nuclear weaponry and missile containment. Mann recounts how CLINTON also "defied" UN "authority" by conducting the Kosovo intervention!!!! CLINTON was accused of "unilateralism" first, when he, judiciously, spurned signing a treaty banning land mines' use, opposed joining the UN-tyrannical, unauthorized "International Criminal Court" (ignobly relapsing by "signing" the treaty immediately before leaving office doesn't count; Clinton still fought sending the treaty to the Senate, and didn't recommend Bush's incoming Admin. to have it ratified), and prohibited submitting the Kyoto treaty to Congress. Also noteworthy is some policies shadily attributed to Bush-arming Taiwan and zero exclusive talks with North Korea before multilateral talks about its nukes program-that have been vilely misconstrued by liberals are actually updated extensions of Dole's platforms in his 1996 election bid.

Mann demonstrates how neoconservatism rose individually in the Democratic Party-callously sinking today's liberals' misconstructions that neoconservatism's a movement from the "radical right" of the Republicans. Many, once proud Democrats like Jeane Kirkpatrick, Henry Jackson and Hubert Humphrey were LOTS more regenerate than today's counterculture wackjobs infesting Democrats nowadays, like Dean, Kennedy, Kerry, Gore and Byrd. These Democrats of old were so regenerate they joined with Republicans in voting for measures that helped America, unlike the five extremists aforementioned, like opposition to the left-wing-errant détente which imposed a "balance of power" tolerance liberals are irredeemably preoccupied with for hostile regimes, as long as they didn't overtly hurt America.

The Vulcans'-especially Wolfowitz-neoconservatism embraced the breakthrough philosophy of Leo Strauss, who patronized denouncing liberalism's moral relativism, since that'd mislead into the gullible subterfuge of believing adverse regimes are equal with democracies-that'd in turn misdirect into getting duped by said regimes' clandestineness. Cheney's a prominent torchbearer for this mentality, while Mann offers that Rice is more of a "peacemaker" in the Admin., playing liaison between the hawks and more dovish-leaning members. Rumsfeld, curiously enough, was dovish during Vietnam, yet graduated into hawkish stands while administering Afghanistan and Iraq. Though conservative, Powell and Armitage may be segregated finely from hawks of the Admin.. The only ones with on-the-ground combat experience, they fishily espouse the most caution concerning committing Americans to war before a definitive plan, though firmly share the hawks' idealism of indomitable American power. As a bonus, Mann includes personal and professional photographs of the Vulcans from their early years onwards.

