Tom Wolfe is praised as a brilliant social novelist and I don't read enough of that type of novel to comment on the success of A Man in Full.  I have read Bonfire of the Vanities and now this book, and I found them both to be quite enjoyable.  A Man in Full is similar to Bonfire with sprawling chapters full of thoughts and descriptions of the main characters.  This book is set in Atlanta, where Charlie Croker is an aging real estate developer and former football star.  Croker's financial empire is on the verge of collapse and his personal life isn't going to well either.

As with Bonfire, Wolfe writes about the polically connected, race politics and the very wealthy.  Charlie Croker and friends judge others based on the amount of money they have and the material possessions they own.  Using this criteria to judge others is obviously foolish to all except the most materialistic.  Except for Conrad Hensley, the Croker employee arrested for assault, the poorest main character is a banker named Peepgas who has a Harvard MBA and makes $120,000 a year.  Needless to say, the social arena Wolfe writes about is above that of most readers.  That doesn't mean the book isn't entertaining.  I enjoyed all of the characters and their interaction.  

When an all-American African American football player at Georgia Tech is suspected of rape, racial tension threatens to destroy Atlanta.  Croker is about to lose all his possessions to his creditors and his sexy wife half his age isn't too thrilled about it.  Roger White is the black lawyer called on by the black mayor to see if he can get the crusty old Croker to speak out.  Conrad Hensley is the Croker employee who is fired then thrown in jail.  All the plots slowly converge.  This book isn't about action, its about characters.  I give this book 4 stars because it was a satisfying journey with some enjoyable characters.  I was frustrated a few times by how what was important in life was so obvious yet Charlie Croker never did quite get it.  His good ole boy attitude was amusing at times but amazingly ridiculous at others.  It was sometimes appalling how attached he was to appearances and his possessions.

About halfway through the book, I browsed some reviews on Amazon.  A few said they were terribly disappointed in an ending that felt tacked on and that there wasn't any resolution to the plot or to some of the characters.  I disagree.  The book ends by resolving the point that the entire book led up too.  We are given a few sentences about the fate of some of the other characters.  For Wolfe to write entire chapters about everyone else would have taken another 200 pages.  The ending is not disappointing and you won't be let down.  Every loose end might not get the attention you think it deserves, but I give Wolfe the benefit of the doubt and accept this as the story he wanted to tell.  
