When a former client of Patrick Kenzie kills herself mere months after he warned off her stalker, Kenzie, out of a profound sense of guilt, investigates.  After reconciling with his former partner and lover, Angie Gennaro, the two stumble upon a the truth: that the client was systematically stripped of everything in her life until she committed suicide.  The responsible party is a man who does not like to be crossed, and has now set his sights on Kenzie and Gennaro.

After the ambiguous villains of "Gone Baby Gone", Dennis Lehane returns to a more traditional type of villain for his fifth Kenzie/Gennaro book, "Prayers for Rain."  While nowhere the monstrous serial killer Lehane created in "Darkness, Take My Hand" (the second book in the series), the villain of "Prayers for Rain" is sinister, smug, brilliant, and sadistic, inflicting pain and death because he can.  Kenzie and Gennaro, in turn, want to stop him out of a sense of justice and vengeance.  The tension mounts as the detectives must struggle to protect their own loved ones and safety while finding a the key to bringing down an invisible and brilliant killer.  

As with the rest of this series, Lehane explores the basic theme of power: who has it, why they want it, what they do to get it, and what they do when they have it.  At the beginning of each novel, the most powerful character is the villain.  They exercise their power violently, harming people because they can, and because their victims cannot fight back.  It falls to Kenzie and Gennaro to exact revenge, which is usually pretty gratifying, if problematic, since our society generally frowns on revenge.  Nonetheless, sometimes justice is not pretty, and it's understood that Kenzie and Gennaro are in the best position to fulfill that justice.

While "Prayers for Rain"is the last Kenzie/Gennaro book for the time being, Lehane has not written a "last" book in a series.  It would be easy for him to pick up this series if he so chose.  I hope he does, as I have enjoyed Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro's company for the past couple of years.  "Prayers for Rain" embodies much of what is great about this series and Lehane as a writer.  It's sharp, taut, intense, funny, and gripping. 
