Robert Caro is just flat out a great writer.  I marvelled at half page paragraphs in which he would paint the most intricate and vivid picture about some minor point.  Such economy and elegance.  I loved it.  Overall, his work on LBJ is just awesome.  

The one thing that comes through, for me anyway, is what a complete jerk LBJ was--like one of the biggest jerks of all time.  Liar, cheater, thief, backstabbing, without any ethics or morals.  He cheated on his wife in what appears to be a more or less complete (though unsuccessful) effort to destroy her in every way.  He humuliated her, he berated her, he belittled her, he yelled at her...just awful to read, really.  He was mean to everyone who did not stand to benefit him in some way.  Just an ugly stain on the human race.  

But through it all you are fascinated by this hollow and empty man, driven by a pointless ambition (since he had no real sincere beliefs) to acquire power.  Like so many narcissists, he had that charm that he could use to manipulate others, which he used brilliantly.  In reading Caro's compelling tale, it is amazing that such a person could rise to such heights without some act of dishonesty or criminality derailing his efforts.  He makes political misadventures of more recent years look like slap fights in Sunday School.  He was a bad man.  

Notwithstanding his badness, however, Caro engages you intensely as he follows LBJ's travels through his years in the Senate and it is hard not to be impressed with the sheer audacity that LBJ displayed in everything he did.  Notwithstanding the impressive audacity, however, when you combine all of the deaths in Vietnam that LBJ could have prevented as President, the horrible way he treated his family and staff and all of the lying, trickery, conniving, and general black soulery he carried with him through life, it just leaves you dazed.  If there is a Hell, LBJ must surely have arrived there on an expedited basis when he died.

No amount of civil rights legislation or Great Society accomplishments with which LBJ is credited can mitigate the tactics he used throughout his life to get what he wanted.

With all that said, the one person in his whole life that LBJ may have had some respect for was John Connolly.  For those who think that LBJ may have had something to do with JFK's untimely death, consider that Connolly was riding directly in front of JFK when he was shot and Connolly was wounded by the "magic bullet."  

If Hell has a legislature, I am certain that LBJ is jockeying right now for position, trying to avoid pitchfork pokes and endure the endless heat wave
