The diagnosis of my Diabetes Type 2 came less than four months ago. It came just 3 days after my dad entered the hospital. He suffered a heart attack; the next day, my diagnosis was confirmed, 5 days later, my dad passed away.

The urgency of my doctor, calling me at 6:30pm on Friday evening, as she was reviewing test results for several patients, struck me like a ton of bricks. I was in a hospital lobby, just having finished visiting my dad's bedside.

I sat down and explained my situation (as it had evolved since my office visit), and added that my girlfriend's dad was also in the hospital, having suffered a major heart attack. He would pass away 3 weeks later.

My Monday doctor's appointment would confirm the diagnosis. I had a fasting glucose level of 282. An in-office test (much like I now perform several times a day) showed a level of 410. These numbers were so high, that a cholesterol reading was impossible. 

The education process had begun over the weekend on the Diabetes.org web site. I'd also purchased Diabetes for Dummies.

As many reviewers describe, the wealth of information and professional opinion is overwhelming and often, in conflict. It seemed to me that treating and coping with Diabetes is much like dieting.  First, what works for me, may not work for you. Second, in dieting, if you're 50 pounds overweight (for example), losing the first 20 pounds is usually a snap. Losing the rest is not a snap, and keeping it off is tough.

This book comes from a solid perspective. It acknowledges the complexity, and reduces it to lay terms, as much as humanly possible.

When describing what internal emotions a newly diagnosed Diabetic might be feeling, it resonated with me. For example, I like my doctor's style. She listens. She looks me in the eye. We are able to have a discussion. She talks about the possibilities, and the different paths my treatment may take.

I asked her, flat out, 'Are you qualified to treat me, or should I being seeing a specialist?' Rather than be threatened, she clearly outlined where her expertise began and ended, and let me know under what circumstances she would recommend a specialist. This gave me great confidence. 

Then, when reading the book, it was refreshing to see that my instincts were confirmed - seeing a personal physician that knows you can often be better than seeking a perfect answer from the ultimate specialist.

No matter how smart one is, the deeper you investigate the complexity of Diabetes Type 2, the more confusing it can become.

I found that this volume has a distinct advantage by focusing only on Type 2. For me, it has begun to clarify and help me understand what will be a lifelong challenge.

Needless to say, I highly recommend it
