"Survivor in death" is the 23rd book in the "In death" series. If you already are a fan of the series, I am pretty sure you will like it a lot, as it has a good plot, fast-paced action, and continues with the development of the characters you already probably love. On the other hand, if you are new to the series, I would advise you to read it in order, instead of jumping ahead. Trust me, you will enjoy all the books more in that way.

That having been said, what is up in this new book?. A family has been murdered during the night, and there is only one survivor, a very scared young girl, Nixie. Lieutenant Eve Dallas is primary at the scene, and she will do her best to catch the murderers. The problem is, there is no evident reason to kill the family, nothing that stands out as suspicious in the lives of Nixie's parents. But surely, they must have done something to provoke the wrath of whomever killed them in their beds, despite their high-tech security system.

Dallas decides to take Nixie to her house, overcoming the objections of the social worker in the case, and due to the fact that the little girl doesn't want to part with her. There is a problem, though. Eve is more scared of children than of criminals, and both her and Roarke are more or less out of their depth in their dealings with Nixie. Thanksfully, they have Summerset (the "frog-faced demon from hell", according to Eve), who takes care of Nixie while the case heats ups and the murderers of her family go on killing, with an ultimate target in mind: Nixie.

In "Survivor in death" you will meet again (if briefly) old characters of the series, as well as the regular "cast" (Eve, Roarke, Peabody, Feeney, Mavis, Summerset, Trueheart, Baxter, etc...). Something stands out rather starkly, and that is that Eve was somewhat cold towards Nixie. In my opinion, that had to do with two facts: that Nixie's ordeal made Eve remember her own, and that Eve isnt comfortable with children (do you remember "Ceremony in death"?). Both Nixie and Eve are survivors, but their past and nightmares are vastly different. Eve realizes that, and will do all in her power to protect Nixie, keeping her alive and not leaving her at the mercy of the system. Roarke is also an important character in "Survivor in death", and you will see him going to the rescue once again, and scaring the daylights out of Eve mentioning the possibility of having children "one day"...

All in all I can say that I really liked this book. It kept me entertained, and I enjoyed it till the very last page. This is another worthy addition to the series, and I highly recommend it to you...

Belen Alca
