Are you overwhelmed by the idea of planning for your retirement? Do you "file" your financial statements in a drawer, unopened? Does your financial plan rely heavily on an investment known as "Powerball?" Jonathan Pond wants to talk to you.

Pond has two goals with You Can Do It! The Boomer's Guide to Retirement. He wants to give you the confidence to start planning and he wants to give you some step-by-step instructions on how to get your financial life on track toward a comfortable retirement.

Pond is just the sort of financial coach to be able to pull this off. Another reviewer aptly compares Pond to Louis Rukeyser, reassuring and friendly experts in their field. You Can Do It starts with a pep talk about how baby boomers have an undeserved reputation as poor planners who are doomed to working long past retirement age and subsisting on cat food. Pond says it isn't true, that we're doing fine. But just in case you aren't as confident about your retirement as he is, Pond has some step-by-step advice for you.

As a cheerleader, Pond isn't bad. He includes examples from people he's talked to or who have written to him. These real-life examples are more interesting than the made-up examples Pond uses, and I wanted more of them. As a coach, Pond is even better. He's obviously very comfortable talking about retirement plans and investments and their tax implications. For many readers, this will be familiar territory, but Pond will still have a few tricks they may not already know. Readers who turn to Pond as a  voice of  clarity in the confusing world of finances may find that they are still overwhelmed, though. Even as someone who actively manages our family's finances, with enthusiasm (there's nothing like money to get my attention), I found myself getting a bit glazed during the sections on mutual funds and insurance. 

A quick start program would be a good idea for many people who just don't know how to get started and quickly become inundated with the hundreds of options that are available. Instead of trying for the Best Investment, the important thing is to start saving now. Pond advocates getting rid of debt, even so far as to suggest that it's a good idea to pay off your mortgage. This is something I haven't heard anyone say for years, but he makes an excellent case for it. He also has some ideas about saving, but would rather you invest in mutual funds. 

There is a website that goes with the book, where you will be able to find updates and more information. This would be a great place for calculators and blank forms to print out, but much of the site is still in progress as I write this. 

You Can Do It is a fine guide for the boomer who needs a little boost and a lot of information. The reader who is truly new to investing and/or overwhelmed by money matters would probably do better to find a book with a greater emphasis on examples rather than tables and balance sheets, and one that keeps it simple, at least until they are more comfortable with making money decisions. The Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need by Andrew Tobias is a good one. The two books together would make an excellent reference resource for anyone who plans to quit working for a living someday
