Richard Barber wrote his book, The Knight and Chivalry as a survey of numerous sources, both literary and historical, regarding the development of knights throughout their history.  In this book, Barber does not propose a thesis, rather he states his purpose "was to provide an overview of knighthood and chivalry from the beginnings to the Renaissance..." (1)  
	Barber begins by making the statement that knights were more than just mounted warriors.  By Barber's definition, a knight was a mounted warrior who had a special social status and who was part of a group mentality.  Barber links a part of the knight's social status to the bond between knight and his leader.  The advent of land grants, as part of the system of vassalage, not only tied the knight to the leader, it also provided a much needed income.  Land ownership led to prosperous families, who were not necessarily noble, but who could afford the equipment necessary to mounted warriors.  As rules about nobility relaxed, these landowners became lords over their fifes and dispensers of justice.  
	Based on biographies and literature of the time, Barber places the beginning of the concept of knights as a special group in the 1130s.  He also finds references in the mid to late twelfth century to rules against knighting sons of peasants and sons of priests.  
	In addition, the concept of chivalry added to this distinction of knights as a separate group.  Barber traces this chivalric attitude to both contemporary literature and earlier poems.  He specifically makes reference to the French Chansons de geste, the Spanish Song of the Cid, and the German Song of the Nibelungs.  The Chansons de geste describe the battles of Charlemagne.  One example of early chivalric attitudes is Roland who faces death bravely and refuses to summon help.  He claims, "If the king loves us it's for our valor's sake."(52)  In The Neiblungenleid, references are made to killing from behind and throwing a javelin as cowardly acts.  There are also examples of challenges being issued before duels.  Barber points out that these are precursors to chivalric attitude to be found in literature.  He also looks to chronicles of real war for examples of chivalric attitudes.  In Orderic Vitalis' twelfth century description of the battle of Bremule, the knights, he says, "were clad in mail and spared each other on both sides, out of fear of God an fellowship in arms."(60)
	Barber also traces the development of the knight as more than simple soldier to civil ambitions that brought them into contact with educated members of the royal court.  It was at court they were exposed to contemporary literature.  Barber believes this literature helped to shape the knights' concept of chivalry, and the court's concept of the knights.  
	Another factor Barber believes was central to the development of knights was the tournament.  As these tournaments developed from the melee fought with few if any rules, to the elaborate productions of the early sixteenth century.  These tournaments gave knights an opportunity to practice their skills under controlled circumstances.  Tournaments also helped develop the concept of taking hostages as opposed to killing ones enemy.
	Barber also considers knights and chivalry in relation to the Church.  While the Church initially opposed war of any kind, Barber states that as the Church became more involved in the secular world, it became less hostile toward warriors.  "Instead his energy was to be channeled into the maintenance of peace and the defense of the weaker members of society."(29)  To this end, the Church began to encourage knighting as a means of gaining control.  This culminated with Pope Urban II in 1095 when he called upon knights to join in a crusade to Jerusalem.  
	The book is organized topically and moves about chronologically within Barber's individual topics.  Barber goes into a great deal of analysis of the various sources he draws upon to tell the story of knighthood and chivalry.  To meet his goal, Barber has conducted extensive research into a large volume of period literature, biographies, chronicles and contemporary historical writings on the subject.  While this book presents and excellent survey of chivalric literature and history, it is not always easy to read and may not appeal to the popular reader.  

Michael E. Watson and Dr. Carl Edwin Lindgre
