"Irritating," said Einstein; "Repugnant," said the great British astronomer Eddington; "I would like to reject it," said MIT physicist Philip Morrison (On the Big Bang, and that the universe began in a moment of creation) 


God and the Astronomers:
In his informing updated book, Dr. Robert Jastrow, a world class astrophysicist, renders a lucid account of the astronomical discoveries in recent years. This book focuses primarily on the Big Bang, how scientists discovered the evidence for it, and how they, reluctantly, gave up alternative theories. Jastrow focuses on several points where the two disciplines of science and religion converge, but a cyclic feedback is kept alive. He, meanwhile, discusses the various theological implications of the new scientific insights. He examines what the philosophical and theological implications might be. He ventures through this without risking any serious consequences, for mankind's place in the cosmos, arguing that; just because the Big Bang took place does not mean that God and evolution cannot coexist. 
Originally published in 1978, this second edition includes an appendix presentation by Catholic and Jewish theologians.      
He concludes his book with this often quoted statement: "He has scaled the mountains of ignorance; he is about to conquer the highest peak; as he pulls himself over the final rock, he is greeted by a band of theologians who have been sitting there for centuries."

New Edition Reviews:
"Robert Jastrow, a world renown astrophysicist and agnostic, takes an honest and inquisitive look at the theological implications of recent astronomical discoveries. Every effect in science has a cause, so what caused the Big Bang and the birth of the universe?" [...]

"Dr. Jastrow explains the chain of events that forced astronomers, despite their initial reluctance to accept the validity of the Big Bang and the fact that the universe began in a moment of creation." (SCIENCE/ASTRONOMY) 

Author & Astrophysicist :
Dr. Robert Jastrow, is the director of Mount Wilson Observatory and was founder and director for twenty years of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. He authored books which explore the universe; Red Giants & White Dwarfs, and Until the Sun Dies.
