In this novel Sinclair Lewis brushes a forceful portrait of the US middle class before World War II: the small business owners (here a realtor).
These businessmen are the backbone of the conservative mainstream in the US: `It's the duty of responsible business men to be strictly moral as an example to the community.'
But, `I hate to think how essentially immoral you must be underneath.' As a matter of fact, they thrive on corruption (`advance information about the extension of paved highways') and cheating (selling bad constructions for gold prices). They are not only conformists, but forced to be so, otherwise they are boycotted by their `friends'. They have to act mechanically.

Above this middle class sit the oligarchs (`he could make me or break me. If he told my banker to call my loans ...'). Beneath them are the wage slaves, who can only afford one meal a day. They are hated by the middle class, `because they were poor, because they made them feel insecure.'
Those who defend the poor are blackened in pure McCarthy style as `the worst menace of sound government, who work undercover, the long-haired gentry who call themselves liberals and radicals and non-partisans and intelligentsia. Irresponsible teachers and professors constitute the worst of this whole gang.'
Religion strongly supports this conservatism: `a dry-hard church, shut off from the real life of the streets, inhumanly respectable as a top-hat.' `Religion has to turn the minds of workmen from wages and hours to Higher Things and thus avert strikes. The pastor's sermons should have a voodooistic power to keep the workers in touch with Higher Things'; not with science (Darwinism) or ideologies (minimum salaries and wage-scales).
But for the businessmen, `the kernel of his practical religion was that it was beneficial to one's business, to be seen going to services.'

Sinclair Lewis's novels are anchored in the social realities of our world. His themes are still actual.
But this novel has a major flaw: it doesn't have a unifying plot; there is no project, no real end. It is an amalgam of different scenes (office, home, marriage, mistress, business, local politics) and different states of mind (boredom, ambition). It is a documentary about standardized minds.
Nevertheless, it is still a very worth-while read.
