Coming on the heels of the recently concluded Spanish War, one could argue that the Philippine war was nearly an extension of that earlier conflict. Indeed, the peace treaties were not even concluded before American forces in the recently occupied Philippines found themselves fighting a confounding insurgency. The obvious differences between the two closely spaced but distinctly different wars are explained in the identity of the enemy, the causes for conflict, and the conduct of war. Brian McAllister Linn's study, The Philippine War stands to give us a clear picture of that footnote of a war that may be otherwise unknown to the alert public.

America's first foray into imperialism ran into trouble from the start. A growing insurgency during the long Spanish rule in the Philippine scarcely slowed down when facing a new occupying power. Also from the start it was clear (more so in hindsight) that this war would not be a true continuation of the last. The insurgency was tough. Later military generations would re-learn the troubles faced in fighting an enemy that looks just like a civilian population and can blend in effortlessly. Likewise, later military leaders would grapple with the thorny issue of how to pacify a semi-popular native guerilla force while displaying the benefits of American rule to a skeptical civilian people. Needless to say it was a difficult task. Linn tackles it well, and shows how the military operations unfolded, often quite poorly and inefficiently, by the various figures. Did America win this war or did the Philippine insurgents lose it? That's a key question for historians, though the basic end effect was the same at the time. American generals first fought an enemy that tried to fight battles in something like the conventional way, and was clobbered by American firepower in each major fight. What began as a somewhat centralized opposition force eventually broke down into a broadly distributed guerilla fight. The lack of coordination proved both a help and a hindrance to both sides.

Then, of course, there is the issue of wartime conduct. To put it plainly, there was limited respect for the rules of warfare on each side. After stumbling in the Spanish War based on American distaste for Spanish anti-insurgent tactics in Cuba, the American effort ended up looking very much the same, with forced civilian relocations used to choke off the enemy's supplies and support. The most obvious difference was that the American Philippine effort produced no mass starvations as in the Spanish Cuban effort, and the American tactics worked. The insurgency dried up. The leaders surrendered. If not in execution, the war's conclusion unfolded with a modicum of civility.

Linn's style is direct and forceful. The very interested reader will find plenty of military tactical detail that the less devout reader may find cumbersome. I can only note that throughout these pages, the high-density details can be read through quickly and with less thorough comprehension without losing the train of thought in the writing. A failure to follow a point will not degrade the overall progression of reading in this book. The end result will still be a much sharper picture of the dramatic history of America's first imperial war
