It's not that obvious from the outset exactly what trip Ruhlman wants to take the reader on, nor if one wants to journey.  Beginning with story of Keller of French Laundry fame losing his shoes at his new NY/NY outing, he begins to unfold the sudden and dramatic shift of what it means to be a chef in this sudden gush of American infatuation with food and a whole new burgeoning generation of foodies.  Certainly worth the read to keep going, especially through CIA changes and exotic space age stuff done by Achatz in early chapters.

Being one of them who started back with the Galloping Gourmet and thinking real eating was Steak Diane or some flaming dessert, certainly the revolution in gastronomy has made this new chef breed into celebrity status.

For those who have experienced this excellent author's previous books on chef (Soul of, Making of; even this reviewer read and loved his work on infant heart surgery) you'll see this change in careers of old friends such as Keller, Polcyn, CIA, etc. plus become acquainted with some new names: Masa, Achatz, Kelly.

Most impressed with the likes of Kelly and Masa, who simply love to do what they do, buy/grow own ingredients, then cook themselves, choosing not to become the CEO branded entity with all the emplire glamour, pace and rewards which cause those like pictured Keller here to pause and reflect just what is a chef these days.

It's like for me with likes of Emeril and John McEnroe.  Both great at what they do: cook/play tennis.  But with respect for that, don't have to admire their personality on the TV, on the court. Encouraging that here expressed the same opinion on Emerial as I by many true chefs.

Thus this read truly is reflective on chef direction.  Evidence of all types of people who seek CEO status without passion for real craft/trade of being a cooking chef.

Favorite story of Kelly and gender identity problem with purveyor delivery and subsequent making him wait outside in rain while she took her sweet time checking it in comfy, dry quarters. Go girl!

This like previous Ruhlman reads is superb writing and storytelling.  Flows well, excites and commands reader attention.  He even admits he is still passionate about his cooking and relationship to it.  Highly recommended. 
