This one starts with Dr. Alex Delaware getting a call from a young woman he treated years ago. Eleven years ago, Melissa Dickenson was a bright, precocious 7 year old girl afraid of everything - a result of growing up with a severely agoraphobic mother. Her mother Gina had been a beautiful actress when a heinous attack left her permanently disfigured and scared of the world - she hasn't left her house since. Little Melissa had to grow up fast to help care for her mother, but she grew up in a loving home none-the-less. Now, nine years after leaving treatment, she's a beautiful young woman herself, about to embark on her own life's adventure, except her mother's attacker is out of prison and back in town. She is desperate for help and Alex can't say no.

Detective Milo Sturgis is about half way through a six month suspension from the LAPD and he's going stir crazy. That's why he really can't resist when his pal Alex pleads for assistance. The free-lancing detective work is good for Milo - he makes some good contacts and gets to flex his deductive muscles, gets to step on some PD toes (always fun). But Gina vanishes and as Milo and Alex dig, they discover a trail of other disappearances as well as several possible deaths. Everyone has a possible motive and yet, no one has a possible motive - it's a real mystery.

Linda, the school principal, is back in Texas caring for her ailing father, leaving Alex to fend for himself. He reconnects with Robin - as friends - will they get back together? And the fish get some action too! Another great book with plenty of Milo this time. There's a scene in which Alex kind of ticks off Milo. The big guy gets genuinely angry and Alex is surprised to find himself scared. After all these years, he is actually afraid of his good friend - comments that he now knows how a suspect feels. Yeah, and of course Alex walks into a dangerous situation - again - almost gets himself killed - again. The climax is a bit of a surprise, though - bet you won't figure it out.
