...all combine in this goulash of a tale, NO HAT FOR DINNER. You've got to hand it to the man, the legend, the scribe par excellence, Mr. S. Greco, for coming up with the dish here on this un-sausage-like Short. This isn't an example of the standard fare. If you're looking for something ordinary, perhaps you should head to the Bills game for a beef on wek, or whatever it is they eat up there in the "armpit of the nation," or so it's been variously called, pejoratively so, if you ask me.

I liked this story heaps and bunches...though I admit, sir Gee, with now this second story I've read from you -- and there are just a few more I've yet to go through -- I'm beginning to wonder just how it is you're able to succeed in conjuring up these plots...now, you didn't exactly try these on for size yourself, did you, at one point in your (tossed?) salad days? Although the hustling notion sort of sounds cool as, to this writer's ears, at least, it's a wee bit on the freaky side. Cool way to make a living, though. No need to chase down the bigbucks. Hustle away.

I'm starting to warm up nicely to the idea of the book, of which these shorter bits make for the larger whole. I like where this is going, truly. I'm envisioning a not-so-rosy end of the line for this hinted-at sordid tale of consumerist woe. I'm getting the impression that your readers are suddenly going to learn about something they'd never wanted to hear. We somehow don't want to know that we're all rapidly becoming poor automatons of the Big Green Machine, even though we're all perfectly willing to participate.

Perhaps it's high time that we're reminded, yet again, of where all this is all tottering. Surely, there's an end in sight for this mish-mash of branded dreck, much of it which can be adequately replaced with generic varieties, or by some very sweet Hong Kong contraband which you can buy for a fraction of the price over in that port city?...but let's not go there...

Way to go G-R-E-C-O for delving into the psyche of the pubescent teen's mind!

How do you do it, and wherefrom do you derive your motivation? Pray tell, I wonder. How are you able to go into the kiddie mind so well? Have you younger brothers and sisters who you can consult? Curious...

I'm glad I came across these.

-- ADM in Prague

ps I found it a little hard how on p12, Paul's dad gave in so easily when he'd discovered was hustling gay men for cash. Other than that, the story rocked. You might have been pressed for space, but this made it a wee harder to believe. However, disbelief was suspended. At least for a time
