The Arabian Nights: Tales from A Thousand and One Nights  -translated by Sir Richard F. Burton
Though the collection is incomplete (this edition contains only the "most famous and representative" tales from the entirety), the compendium outshines any expectation or foreknowledge of the stories and is choc with the marvelous wit of ancient Arabian storytelling.  The stories have an underbidding theme all alike, good is good and evil is evil, Allah is all and always and man and manhood will be sundered, for without fail comes with the tail of every tale "the Destroyer of delights and Severer of societies, the Plunderer of palaces, and the Garnerer of graves."  Reminding sundry-reader that, despite diamond caches and throes of love, all is vanity of vanity, and only the story will exist for aught.  The structure of each of these stories is thematically similar: a poor man happens on a souterrain of riches, he is espied by someone of evil, foul play ensues, a moon of moons of a beauty entrances one and all, a jinn sneaks out of a signet ring, the enemy is bewitched, and the hero is consummated with love and gold.  Or, the reverse.  Or, the inverse.  But what is unique to each of these stories is the complete freedom of happenstance.  A man fishing in a pond nets a monkey.  A marooned sailor flies with a giant bird to freedom.  A man blind in one eye runs into another blind in one eye and they run into another blind in one eye.  Ali-Babba overhears an eponymous password to a storehouse of plunder.  Everything and anything goes.  As well with the language, in "fairest favour and formous form," Sir Burton spares no joyance of neologism coined, alliteration aligned or rhyme rhymed.  The text is bedight with proper consciousness of Shaharazad, "for interest fails in twice told tales," and "Words cannot undo the done," as we are gently and thematically reminded of the bookends: the murderous king and the maiden, Shaharazad's "fictitious" fight for survival.  The stories that have so obviously leaked into our culture, Aladdin, Ali-Babba and the Forty Thieves, are so much richer, more profound, and less coddling than our cartooned interpretations (as is also the case with the Grimm and Andersen tales).  In the end, it is obvious that nor King nor author nor Queen is the hero.  None save the stories themselves and the love of the telling will live on.
