One finds books by various serendipitious ways.My route was from World Peace Advocate John Hagelin to Critianne Northrup to Lisa.It was a point last year in March where I had renewed my search for an easy way to access my intuition.

I was fascinated by Dr. schultz's life experiences. I was also intrigued by her decription of the mind/body connection. I felt a growing sense that this book had not come my way by chance. Its insights were supposed to be used. Soon,Iwould discover. In two weeks  I learnt that a close relative of mine.a young,bright,gregarious woman had quit college with extreme depression. I quickly understood that my role was to keep others focused on healing her.One year later she is back in school. She is on medication but a network of friends prayed for her and sent her love.

Later that year, in June, I suffered what was decribed as a 'silent heart attack'. It was a frightened experience which I went through alone for about four hours. In that period I drank water,kept my circulation going with my chi machine and meditated. I think I handled this experience without panic because I insisted in 'talking' to my body, to affirm that mind could influence physical body. I got though that period and am more healthy and in tune with my body.

One major insight I got from this book is that people like me who are fluent with words do not easily get in touch with their intuition. She suggested that using dreams was a good route for me. I knew this from past experiences so I returned to writing down my dreams. It has helped me.

A lot depends on which point in your life you read his book. I happen to be a meditator of thiry years and to have had several intuitive experienes. I've also met many gifted intuitive people. Therefore I did not approach the material with any great scepticism.

Also I felt strongly that I needed to learn the material that Dr. Schultz was explaining. People who are very left brained may find what Dr. Schultz says as so much "mumbo jumbo".

Even for readers familar with right brain theory may find Dr. Scuhltz's book not easy going. It's a book to buy and re-read.
I'd advise doing what I now do--opening the bok at random and reading that section
