Microsoft is a company whose origins and leader, Bill Gates, are well documented.  The brand is one of the most recognized in the world, and countless millions use their products.  What is less known though is how the organization had to transform itself recently while never letting their collective foot off the gas.

The first hundred pages or so start with the history of how Gates founded the company.  I felt the author didn't go into too much detail or attempt to write an autobiography, just provide enough background to set the stage for the changes to come.

The catalyst according to the author is the DOJ lawsuit filed against Microsoft.  The impact on Gates is described as profound, and helped Bill and Steve Ballmer initiate some changes to a few company philosophies.   

There are a few themes that emerged for me when reading.  Among them are the facts that the company has a (rare) focus on never standing still.  Always concerned about being out innovated, or beat in the marketplace, the company has created a culture where employees and leadership are relentless about improving.  Another (rare) organizational trait is the focus on hiring talented people.  Only GE in my personal experience understood that hiring the smartest, and best, at all levels is critical to success.  Microsoft leaders are legendary for their unusual interviewing techniques, all designed to hire the brightest thinkers. 

While these traits made the company successful, according to the author they alone were not enough to take Microsoft forward after recent events.  One of the biggest changes was Bill Gates stepping out of the top role into a technology role, and Steve Ballmer taking on the CEO role.  This move may have been surprising from the outside, but it seems it allows both to do what they do best.  Further changes in focus were developed in two broad areas, values and customer focus.  Steve Ballmer sought to influence the talent inside Microsoft to better work together, be more respectful and self critical, and so on.  The book outlines a short list of these values.  The second area was an even stronger focus on customer orientation. These concepts are outlined in some detail.

Overall, the book is an easy read, and was not in any way dry in my opinion.  The author does a credible job at portraying the events and outside influences that led to the "reboot" or transition that companies must go through as they grow.  For anyone interested in Microsoft, the book provides an interesting overview of the life cycle of an organization that has had a profound impact on the world.
