I read this book before reading Fear Nothing, and when I finished I went running to buy the first book. Koontz does a wonderful job of involving the reader and getting you to really care about the characters, as well as getting you to believe in possibility that these events could happen.

Snow starts out on an evening bike ride with his dog Orson, which is not your everyday dog.  He quickly runs into his old school sweetheart and learns that her son has been kidnapped.  Snow and Orson take off to track down little Jimmy and the trail leads them to Ft. Wyvern, an abandoned military base that has many dark secrets, not the least of which is the mysterious Mystery Train project, which Snow believes is connected to the work his mother did when she was on the base.  Once there Snow is led into a trap that he survives only to discover that Orson is now missing. He calls for help from his friend Bobby and ontinues to search for Jimmy and Orson.  While waiting for Bobby, Snow narrowly escapes from a dangerous troop of enhanced monkeys.  Together Bobby and Snow witness what is just the first example of unnatural behaviors in the local wildlife, as well as the discovery of some other wildlife.  

Clues found in an old house lead Snow and Bobby to a large building with subterranean levels where Snow begins to understand the truth about the Mystery Train.  After a harrowing experience in what Snow refers to as the "egg room" the two discover that daylight is quickly approaching and they're going to have to continue the search the next night. 

Snow and Bobby return to Lilly's house to assure her that they have not given up and will return Jimmy and hook up with Sasha.  They make a plan for the next evening's return to Ft. Wyvern and get home just as the sun is rising.

Unfortunately even their preparations and journey back to the base are hindered by unexpected developments and revelations, all of which are nothing compared to what they find upon their arrival back on base.

This book keeps you on the edge of your seat racing to see what is going to happen next.  Ft. Wyvern is such a wonderful source of suspense and mystery that there could be several more books in this series without ever needing to leave Moonlight Bay.  Koontz does a great job of demonstrating the depth and importance of Snow's relationships.  You really understand what all of these people mean to each other and appreciate what they all go through.  Definitely an enjoyable read.
