This very readable account of the case of Jihad and the conflict between Islam and the world, is a must read for anyone interested in the present conflict.  The book traces the birth of Islam and the injunction to Jihad.  There is no sugar coating here, no pretending that Jihad means `peace' or that Jihad is the `internal struggle'.  Instead a fair presentation is given as to the reasons for Jihad and its manifestation.  The history of Islam is traced, from the 4 early Caliphs, through to the defeats at Constantinople and Tours.  

We are given a tour of Islam as it spreads and as it confronts Christianity.  We encounter the Crusades.  We see how Islam transformed, became corrupted and attempted reform.  We see the Ottomans at the gates of Vienna and then the `sick man of Europe'.  Great concentration, perhaps 1/3 of the book, is dedicated to the confrontation in India between England, Islam and Hinduism.  It is here that the books strength lies.  The author gives a perfect rendition of the Indian independence struggle and Ali Jinnah and the birth of Pakistan.  An honest assessment is made of how Pakistan became a `home for Islam' and then a `home for terrorism'.  Pakistan is presented, not Saudi Arabia, as the home of international terrorism, due to the ISS support of the Taliban and Osama.  

There are several generalizations, as there must be in this book.  There is great description of Christian vitriol against Islam and similar Hindu `anti-Islamic' statements.  The reader is told that even Dante was not fair to Islam.  There is great cataloguing of Christian atrocities.  However the reader is not treated to the many Islamic atrocities at places like Famagusta, and oddly Lepanto the turning point of the Mediterranean expansion of the Ottomans is not covered.  This can be attributed to bias on the books part.  Islam is presented as the victim, however it is not clear how this `defensive' Jihad conquered 1/3 of the world?  Many questions are left unanswered and the reader must be cautious for many events are one sided, however this is not apologetic, Islam is also given its due.  

Seth J. Frantzman

