You might define a field of scientific investigation as the amount of material a very smart person can process working around 20 hours per week.  By "process" I mean reading about the literature and doing new experiments, and I say 20 hours per week because most scientists spend more than half their time on administrative junk.  Of course, in the days when scientists like N. Copernicus and I. Newton were in their prime, there was much less administration and much less knowledge, so one scientist could meaningfully contribute to multiple fields and still have time for hobbies (like practicing medicine).  Nowadays a scientist might spend his entire career working on one small part of one small problem, with progress so incremental that it's only noticed by his immediate peers.  That's a sign of real progress, because it means that many of the big problems have long ago been solved.  But it also means that very few scientists have the luxury of looking at the big picture.

So what happens if the big picture is where all the answers are?  What if there a few laws that stretch across disciplines, and our modern-day Isaac Newtons spend all their time working on the details?  It's possible, and if it's true we would need an approach that spans the fragmented fields of science, and that's what E.O. Wilson calls Consilience.

The book is very well-written, and it provides an interesting survey of many different aspects of science and the humanities.  The idea certainly makes sense in abstract, although I'm not really sure what the author is calling for in practice.  I agree that it would be great if scientists were educated more broadly outside of their immediate disciplines, but I'm not sure how to do this without sacrificing some of the rigor that drives science forward.  Maybe I missed something.

Wilson has often been criticized for his suggestion that the methods of science can be used to study the humanities.  For some reason this really bothers people, and I don't understand why.  All he's saying is that the scientific method is a great way to understand how things work, and there's no good reason to think that music or poetry are exceptions.

Last week there was an article in the journal Science describing the mathematical structure of musical chords.  The author found that the chord sequences that people find attractive occupy clusters in a non-Euclidean geometric space.  The math allowed him to detect patterns in the music of certain composers, and even certain styles of music.  By all accounts a very exciting discovery, and one that deepens my appreciation of both music and mathematics.  Why anyone would feel threatened by this is a mystery that should be studied with state-of-the-art neuroimaging methods
