I recently had the pleasure of getting a copy of the book Megalodon - Hunting the Hunter by Mark Renz. My first thought was,"Oh yeah, this is going to be yet another amateur fossil hunter book of which all are the same, but each having just a different cover". That's what I was thinking before I opened the book. Man was I wrong to have thought that to any degree!!! This book is certainly not like any of the others which I have received. It is very informative about scientific views of the Giant Extinct Shark Megalodon and includes, as well, unexplained stories of possible encouters with modern day Megs or Meg-like sharks around the world (Though I do not believe they still exist today, the stories are still very exciting to read).The book is full of beautiful color photographs of megalodon teeth plus other shark teeth and fossils from all over the world. It also includes fantastic artwork of sharks by very artistic shark enthusiast and professionals alike. Also Mark Renz went to great pains to include a list of worldwide localities where you may be able to visit and collect your very own Megalodon Teeth. I have never before seen a book as such as this that has ever covered so much information about Megalodon until now. Mark Renz has proven himself to be an excellent writer that is very excited about what he does best; Hunting the Megalodon. His whit and very sincere appreciation of fossils is evident throughout his book. The book is saturated in excitement for fossil collecting!!! It is that sense of Mark's Personal excitement for the hobby that exudes from his style if writing that helps to set the reader on fire for more and more until they finally just have to get up and go fossil hunting for themselves or absolutely risk passing out from visual fossil information overload. At least that is how it affected me. Yes, if you love fossil hunting and especially anything to do with the giant extinct shark Megalodon, then you are going to love Mark's new book "Megalodon - Hunting the Hunter". But be warned, when you pick it up you won't want to put it down and when you do you will be out the door to go fossil hunting for yourself. So read it early in the day before it gets too late in order to leave you plenty of time later to find that big tooth before it gets too dark again outside. But of course, just bring your flash light and Mark's book along with you and that is all you will need to give you that edge to keep going to find that BIG SHARK TOOTH waiting out there for you!!!! Thanks Mark for a GREAT BOOK!!
