A book called "Hard Times" doesn't sound like the type of book you'd pick up for some light, cheerful reading, but you shouldn't judge a book by its cover - or its title either. "Hard Times" certainly deals with a difficult subject, but thanks to the genius of Dickens, it never becomes unbearably depressing. 

At the centre of the novel are the upheavals of the mid-1800s that changed the world forever: the rise of the Industrial Revolution, mass manufacturing and capitalism, and the rural-to-urban flow that led to compulsory schooling and shocking living conditions for vast amounts of the English population. The Enlightenment was gaining in popularity, as was the bourgeois class, which was gradually outing the old aristocracies. It was a time of drastic social and economic change, and inevitably many less-fortunate people fell down the cracks in the new system. With all this as his background, Dickens creates various characters of differing classes and the impact such social changes had in their lives. Exploring the phenomena on individual, familial and social levels, Dickens reveals some of the pain and misery that plagued his time-period, and is still very much relevant to our present day condition.

What is vitally important to understand is that reading "Hard Times" is reading history - in more ways than one. As a philanthropist who investigated the factory conditions of the working class, Dickens not only vividly describes the situation as he saw it with his own two eyes, but threw light on the cruelty that was at work to the general public (before there was investigative journalists, there were novelists). It was partly because of the publicity that Dickens raised in regards to factories and workhouses that philanthropists came to the aid of the poor and that laws were passed in order to secure better conditions for the lower classes. The pen is indeed mightier than the sword.

Thrown into the mix of this great social and political satire are a range of vivid (though often one-dimensional characters) of all classes and situations who all dwell in the industrial town of Coketown, described as "a town of red brick, or of brick that would have been red if the smoke and ashes had allowed it...a town of machinery and tall chimneys, out of which interminable serpents of smoke trailed themselves for ever and ever, and never got uncoiled." Out of this miserable place comes Sir Thomas Gradgrind, a man uninterested in anything but facts - at school, at home and in life in general. His children Louisa and Thomas are the products of a strictly factually-based education; as a result she is clinically depressed (as we would describe it in modern terms) and her brother turns to cards and drinking in order to alleviate his boredom with the world. Among the lower-class is Stephen Blackpool, an honest and hardworking older man who is in love with fellow worker Rachael, but because of his class is unable to divorce his drunken wife. Providing the lighter side of this dreary existence is the circus, which brings colour and enjoyment into the lives of the Coketown residents simply for its own sake, personified by Sissy Jupes, the daughter of a clown who brings a sense of fancy and spiritual understanding into the lives around her that mere facts don't even begin to provide.  

All of these lives, plus many more eventually collide in typical Dickens melodrama, with the clear message that imagination (or "fancy") and the need for simple pleasures in life are essential for the good of humanity. Whether it is in the strict classroom, the dismal workhouses or the familial unit, the human spirit will be crushed without some measure of light, laughter and enjoyment. As an extra bonus, "Hard Times" is one of Dickens's shortest novels; if you are a steady reader it shouldn't take you more than a week to complete!

Some critique "Hard Times" as being too transparent in some of its themes and messages, and though this is probably true (with his characters representing different points of view, rather than being three-dimensional figures), this is precisely the point of the novel. Unlike "David Copperfield" or "Great Expectations", this is not a story that revolves around one particular character and their development, but rather an assemble piece that has the `hard times' as its main focus. Therefore, characters do not need to be anything but a representative of worldview; Mr Gradgrind as the strict rationalist, Bounderby as the hypocritical bourgeois member, Blackpool as the angelic poor man, Mrs Sparsit as a member of the fading aristocracy and Slackbridge as an ignorant trades-union agitator (proving that although Dickens had sympathy for the poor, he still believed that giving them *too* much power was a dangerous thing).

These were hard times indeed, but this novel attempts to show that there is hope for humanity to see such times through to the other side.
