I'm currently getting married, and this book is what my pastor assigned to me and my wife to be, as our first reading material for pre-marital counseling.

I have read other Wilson books, but I wasn't too thrilled about the style he used within this book.  Doctrinally, it is sound and there are no problems, but, the undertones are not quite appropriate in my opinion.

I am very reformed (and I'm always reforming), but when you have someone who does not come from a reformed background, and they somehow fall upon such a book and begin reading it, they may turn away from reformed doctrine entirely.  All due to the style a writer presents reformed doctrines or the reformed faith.  Doug (though a great writer) writes with sarcasm, and at first glance, may cause some folk to 'knee jerk'.   And yes, sarcasm may indeed have a proper place in the world of writing, but should not be over done.  And I do understand that some people do not mind such sarcasm, and find it simply encouraging that there are other people in this world who find modern society's ways offensive, chaotic, and/or destructive.  And in turn, find peace of mind that they are not alone (which is good for them), and may be the full intentions of the writer all along.  But again, the newbie may turn away, when they should instead be nurtured...  Anyway, if reformed doctrine or the reformed faith is new to you, and, if and when you read this book, take into consideration the context in which he is writing, and do not read more into what he says, when he spouts out a sarcastic remark here or there.  Keep it at face value and will you will find this book a bit more beneficial to you and/or your spouse.

As far as my pre-marital counseling and this book are concerned, it was very helpful.  It caused me and my soon-to-be-wife to address issues which we would have probably pushed off until they arose sometime in our marriage, or things which we may never personally experience (Lord Willing), such as the topic of divorce.  And now, I know her more deeply than I would have without reading this book, and count myself blessed for doing so.  In this light, the book is very enlightening.

For what it's worth, we are now reading 'The Intimate Marriage: A Practical Guide to Building a Great Marriage' by R.C. Sproul.  I've barely started and yet look forward to reading this one.  And incase you've enjoyed my insight of this book, I'll soon be writing a review for that book as well.

We were also recommended to read 'Preparing for Marriage God's Way', and a book to read during marriage, 'Strengthening Your Marriage', which are both written by Wayne Mack.  I'm told these have many helpful questions, to help stimulate useful conversations in regards to marriage
