Paul Sheldon,a very good writer famous for his books in the "Misery" series.A popular character in his book is someone named Misery.In his final book he kills the character off,therby ending the series.Paul's number one fan is Annie Wilkes,a retired nurse.(I would like to say,retarded).

 One day Paul gets into an accident and gets both of his legs severely damaged.Coincidently,Guess who finds him?
 Annie.Yes,she finds him and starts to nurse him back to good health.But when she soon finds out that Paul has killed the character "Misery",Annie is pissed...She makes it her business to get Paul to write another novel in which "Misery" is not killed.It sounds simple,I know.But when Paul refuses to write the novel,Annie uses force,and she tortures him so much that he just gives in and begins to write a new novel.
  Meanwhile thinking of a way to escape,Paul writes the novel and suffers at the same time.He lost one of his foot,because she burnt it off!Yes,this Annie Wilkes is a lunatic.While Paul is under Annie's capture,he learns alot about things he took for granted.The ending of this book is a happy one,you won't be disappointed.I recommend this book as any other SK novel.It is a great Suspense,drama novel...enjoy...Nigel

Here is another version of the plot.(taken from wikipedia)...

"The story begins with Paul Sheldon slowly waking out of a coma. Gradually, his memory returns to him: he is a wildly popular romance novelist of the Misery series of novels (the main character of which is named Misery Chastain) who has crashed his car in a winter storm outside of Silver Creek in Grand County, Colorado, and has been badly injured. His rescuer, Annie Wilkes, is a former registered nurse and has taken him to her secluded country home to personally care for him.

As luck would have it, Annie is Paul's "number one fan" and eagerly awaited all his publications. Almost immediately however, Paul realizes that there is a flip side to this coin: Annie is mentally ill, she has not told anyone where he is, and she has a violent past that includes a successful career as a serial killer.

Annie begins to physically and psychologically abuse Paul when she finishes reading his latest published work, in which the heroine Misery dies. Annie later forces him to burn an unpublished manuscript of his new novel, "Fast Cars" he was carrying at the time of his accident, disgusted at its radical departure from the Misery series. Eventually, Annie forces Paul to write a new Misery novel "just for her" and bring the character back from the dead. Paul works on the book as Annie's violent mood swings and her psychosis deepens. Her insanity escalates as Paul tries to escape; she eventually chops off one of Paul's feet, one of his thumbs, and murders a police officer investigating his disappearance. As the authorities begin to close in on Annie, Paul's plight--both in his writing and his attempt to save his life--becomes more desperate.

Paul eventually defeats Annie by smashing her over the head with the second hand typewriter she had given him to write "her" novel. After he escapes, he publishes the new Misery novel to great critical acclaim."...enjoy...Nigel

