Transgender Rights
Paisley Currah, Richard M. Juang, and Shannon Minter, Editors
Transgender Rights is a must for any transperson, family member, or parent who is concerned with transgenders' legal rights.
The book is separated into three sections:  Law, which includes examination of recent and current laws and the application.  History, which deals with gains achieved during this same period.  Politics, which outlines the political actions taken or needed and their repercussions.
Is gender variance a mental or physical condition?  Is it fair to consider transgendered individuals disabled?  Can these answers and questions be used independently, intermittently, or in conjunction to gain favorable decisions when petitioning authorities?
The authors point out that many states' laws define disability in a fashion that includes gender variance, thus allowing transgenders to sue for protection and/or accommodation under disability laws.  Marriage questions similarly vary by state.  Some will change the sex designator after gender confirmation surgery and thereby allow the transgender individual to marry in their self-identified gender.  Some will insist on using their original birth sex designator through out their lives, regardless of GAS.  Finally, some - the Supreme Court of Kansas, for example - refuse to consider transgendered individuals ANY gender; they are neither male no female.  This results in NO law that specifies male or female applying to them.   They cannot legally marry at all.
All three parts contain a mix of what has been done, what could or should be done, and ideas on how to get from one to the other.
Transgender Rights is at times a difficult read.  Based on standard evaluations of writing style and readability, it appears to be targeted on a well-educated audience.  Most of the transgender community and their allies are accustomed to researching their needs via books, conferences, and web sites.  They are self-educated in everything relating to their experience.  This book will enhance their knowledge.  Whether they encounter legal challenges or engage in political advocacy, this work can be their guide.
Dave Parker
