An Anthropologist on Mars is the much anticipated follow-up to his previous best-seller, The Man Who Mistook His Wife For a Hat. In it, Dr. Sacks further explores the recesses of the Central Nervous System's never ending quest for logic and understanding. Gestalt tells us that if we look at a broken circle long enough, the brain will fill-in the missing piece. The brain easily embraces a circle, but finds no concrete logic to a broken circle. Thus, the brain rejects such a concept as impossible. Consider our memories: most people have heard that eye witness accounts of rare events are digitized in such a way that the brain can change the sequence of events in a manner scewed toward the logical arrangment of the rare event. People who have witnessed an aircraft explode during flight most often remember this rare event quite differently immeadiatley after it happens. Plains don't explode then crash, plains crash, then they explode. That makes sense to the brain, but explode then crash does not make sense. OK, enough of Psych 101. As a neurologist, Dr. Sacks understands how the brain works, and is thus able to explain it in an easy going manner. It wasn't until a skiing accident though inwhich Dr. Sacks lost a leg, and learned first hand the phenomonon of phanthom feeling that he became fully aware of the brains search for logic. The brain hates the idea of ONE LEG, and thus continues to accept information from something that isn't even there, and, more remarkably, responds to the information. Now armed with subjectivity as well as objectivity, Dr. Sacks marshalls his considerable talent as a writer and walks a thin line in the telling of our miraculous brain. Finally, it's clear he really cares about the people he puts forth as examples of neurological insult. He offers us a wide variety of people, thier afflictions, and the results. He does seem to favor Tourette Syndrome as a perfect example of a brain run amuk. After all, Tourette Syndrome is named after a student of great French neurologist Jean Charcot. Dr. Tourette devoted his career to the study of one person who suffered from what we now call Tourette Syndrome. Dr. Sacks widens the view effectively.
