"Romeo, Romeo!  Where for art thou Romeo?"   Wait a minute, wrong play!  In my opinion, Much Ado about Nothing was a very funny book/play and I somewhat enjoyed reading it.  The only bad part about it is that it was a chick flick (or in its case a chick play).  The old English also took away from the play sometimes.  However, for the most part it was understandable.  Overall, I believe Shakespeare probably had a reason for writing the play other than just for pure entertainment. 
Much Ado about Nothing is a classic Shakespearian type play.  It is a comedy about two young couples.  One couple is Benedick and Beatrice.  At the start of the play they are in love with one another, they just do not know it yet.  They are constantly bickering and fighting with each other.  The other couple Hero and Claudio, who are madly in love with each other (or so they think) plot to make Benedick and Beatrice realize that they are in love with each other.  They also have help in the form of Leanato, Don Pedro, Margaret and Ursula.  Meanwhile, Don Pedro's evil brother Don John along with his henchmen, Conrade and Borachio, plot to break up Hero and Claudio.  The plan nearly succeeds, and the rather unusual constable Dogberry and his somewhat merry men must come to the rescue of Claudio's and hero's relationship.      
As I said before, the main point of Shakespeare writing the play was probably for more than entertainment.  I believe he also wrote it because he wanted to show how crazy love can make a person.  In the play, Beatrice and Benedick fall in love with each other.  After Claudio shames Hero, Beatrice was so upset that she asks that Benedick kills Claudio.  Now that presents a problem because Benedick and Claudio are good friends.  At first, Benedick is very reluctant to do this.  So reluctant that he refuses to do this.  After she says she will not love him any more Benedick immediately agrees to kill Claudio.  Even though I would probably do the same thing in Benedick's position, it is still amazing what love can make you do. 
Surprisingly, I actually learned something from this play.  It's the simple fact that assumptions are very, very dangerous.  Thanks to Don John and his henchmen's evil plot, Claudio thought that he had seen Hero cheating on him with Borachio.   In reality, it was Margaret and Borachio that he saw.  Acting on only what he saw, he shamed Hero and "killed" her.  
In the end, it was another happily ever after moment.  Personally, I expected a better ending, but that's just me.  Yes, I would recommend this book but I myself did not love it.  Too much love, not enough action and drama.  However, it was very funny, especially the constable Dogberry (my favorite character in the book/play).  Also the plot was well developed so that kept my interest.  Overall, it was good and worth reading.  I would give the book/play 8.11 out of 10.  You would probably like it so go buy and read it.  Great play, but it's just not for me.  
