While this book might not appeal to one looking for a more serious approach to Buddhism, Mr. Metcalf always conveys the information in a profound, simple, moving, insightful, witting, and fascinating way.  His aim in writing the book was to enable to reader to discover his or her own inner Buddha, to get more in touch with it, and to ultimately be guided through life by it.  Essentially, one must become one's own teacher.  The questions range from profound ones such as "What would Buddha do when doubting his spiritual path?" and "What would Buddha do when doctrine and reason collide?," to ones everyone has, such as "What would Buddha do about adultery?" and "What would Buddha do when feeling frustrated?," and to modern-day issues such as "What would Buddha do if his credit cards are maxed out?" and "What would Buddha do about road rage?"  Whatever one's problem or question, the answer is sure to be found here, along with some issues that perhaps one hadn't thought of before.  The quotes, lessons, and stories that start off each of the 101 answers are mostly drawn from traditional classic Buddhist texts such as the Dhammapada, the Buddhacharita, and the Sutta Nipata.  The advice is short but sweet, always making it seem relevant for the modern reader instead of very heavily theological or the product of another time.  Along the way the reader learns some fascinating things about Buddha himself, such as how he taught that one can completely follow all of his teachings from within any religion and need not be a Buddhist to do so, that he was a feminist (long before it had a name), that he was an environmentalist, that he was anti-war, that he endorsed what we today call interventions for those who are abusing substances or exhibiting troubling behavior, and that he attained enlightenment shortly after he stopped his intense fasting and began to love himself and his body again.  Far from coming across like some serious old man who was a recluse and only thinking of matters spiritual, he comes across as a vibrant person who'd seem right at home in the modern era, what with all of his downright liberal beliefs.  This is a book like the Tao Te Ching or the Dhammapada, that doesn't have to be read cover to cover or all at once.  One can go to whatever part of it one needs when one needs it, or can just open to a random page or pages for spiritual help with a pressing problem.  The publishing company will also give one a WWBD bracelet if one writes to them and sends a small fee, in response to the popularity of the WWJD bracelets.  How awesome is that?
