Victor Hugo's The Hunchback of Norte Dame is majestic in its descriptions of the medieval settings within France, albeit at times it becomes a bit lengthy and tedious when wanting to get to the next segment of the story. For instance, there is approximately a 30 page description of the interior cathedral of Notre Dame and the surrounding areas. While this introduces us to some of the background of Paris' settings, it is a bit cumbersome to get through. Overall, however, Hugo's ability to bring characters-their faults, personalities, weaknesses, and human emotions-to life certainly makes this a great work of fiction. 

The main characters within the novel are Quasimodo, a deformed hunchback with only one eye: many of the people associate him with evil because of his deformities, yet he represents both good characteristics as well. Claude Frollo is the archbishop who looks over and cares for Quasimodo at the Norte Dame cathedral. Frollo is a tragic character mainly because of his fall from grace, from good to bad because of his own desires and his own resistance into temptation, he slowly fades and loses grip with humanity and goodness. Esmeralda is a gypsy dancer that captivates the attention of many of the people in the city, both for good and sinister reasons. She owns a goat, Dhali, and her and her pet become an issue to the people who view gypsies as being evil, especially because of her goat's ability to do "magic" tricks. Lastly, there is Phoebus, a man who Esmeralda becomes enchanted with after he saves her from peril. Although handsome, he is more materialistic and shallow. 

 For the most part the story was compelling, and the pace of the story really picks up towards the end of the novel. If you go into the novel expecting it to be like the films that have attempted to portray the story of Quasimodo, you may be surprised and/or disappointed. Hugo's knack is to write a novel with great emotion and to depict a true vision of human tendencies and behaviors, yet this novel is definitely somber in tone and many of the events in the book are different from the popular films. While some may question the coincidences within the novel's plot, this is a work that is magnified and becomes essentially bigger when you take all of its parts and put them together. 


