Set in London, 1814. The three Royle sisters are triplets, but they do not resemble each other a great deal. Their father had been a simple country physician, yet was able to set aside a large dowry for each of his daughters. Their Season is about to begin. They reside with their great-aunt, Prudence, who sleeps most of the time and is quite forgetful. When the sisters find a mysterious box from their father, the items within cause a huge stir. If the clues be true, then the three sisters may very well be the secret offspring of the Prince Regent and Mrs. Fitzherbert, his true love. Elizabeth and Anne are excited and eager to believe, but Mary, the reasonable and frugal one, does not believe it at all. Then the sisters are summoned to their guardian's resident. There, within a secret chamber, Lord Lotharian, Earl of Lotharian, and two other elderly gentlemen reveal an amazing story to the sisters. Still, there is no real evidence to prove their blood is even the slightest bit blue. Yet it does not matter. The men had promised their "father" to see them settled with good husbands of High Society. 

The sisters are launched into Society by Lady Upperton. As Lady Upperton's protégées they automatically have entry to many door that would have been closed to them otherwise. Lady Upperton is thrilled to be a part of it all. Mary is to be the first sister matched by their sponsors. However, Mary already knows the man she wants to wed. It is Quinn, the newly belted Viscount Wetherly. Mary even convinces her sisters to powder themselves into disguise, as garden statues, to sneak a peek at him! That is good for everyone, including Quinn since he already has his eye on Mary as his future Viscountess. The only problem is Quinn's older brother, Rogan. 

Rogan Wetherly, Duke of Blackstone, distrusts all women. He believes that all women are greedy winches out to trick unwary men into marriage by proclaiming love and devotion. Rogan has good reason for his beliefs and refuses to let his brother fall into any female's trap, especially Mary's. It is obvious that Mary has tossed out her lure in hopes of reeling Quinn in. So Rogan decides to pursue Mary in his brother's stead, but is the motives honorable? 

***** A fabulous story that begins with a shock before morphing into one of the most intriguing reads I've had in a while! Are the three Royle sisters really princesses? It makes for an interesting sub-plot, that is for sure. Don't expect ME to tell, and you will have a wonderful time reading to find out. Author Kathryn Caskie may win awards for this novel. I eagerly await the next sister's tale. ***** 

Reviewed by Detra Fitch of Huntress Reviews
