I'm the illustrator of this book and would like to share the following reviews:

Children's Literature - Sylvia Firth 
The folk tale of making soup from stones or "nothing" is found in many cultures. This version, set in the Caribbean, is vibrant, funny and clever. Poor Granny is very hungry but has no food or money. When fishing proves unsuccessful, she decides to use a shell as the basis for a pot of soup. At the outdoor market, Granny ingeniously manages to get everyone to contribute something to the soup by convincing them that her shell has magical powers. After the addition of the last ingredient, fungee, the crowd gleefully enjoys the free soup and gives a resounding cheer for Granny and her wonderful kallaloo. The strong, lively illustrations have the feel of the Caribbean and are a first-class addition to the story. As an added bonus, instructions for making kallaloo, either for a crowd or just two, are included on the last page. 2005, Marshall Cavendish, Ages 4 to 8. 

School Library Journal
PreS-Gr 3-"`Lunchtime,' said Granny, `and me belly bawling.' But her cupboard was bare." So begins this West Indian version of the ever-popular "Stone Soup." In lilting language, Granny and her hungry stomach have a conversation about what they are going to do as she sits fishing, but not catching anything. Then she comes upon a shell and decides to make soup with it. She runs to the Market Square crying, `"I find it!'" Of course, everyone is curious, especially when she declares that the shell can make soup, and if someone brings her a pot of water, she'll prove it. As the people gather, they each contribute an ingredient until a big pot of savory kallaloo, a Caribbean gumbo, is ready to be shared by all. This humorous tale can be enjoyed alone, but is well suited to reading aloud. Greenseid's bright and vibrant acrylic illustrations are a perfect interpretation of the text and bring the setting to life. A well-written, engaging, and gentle story about sharing and the power of working together to achieve a goal
