With some hesitation, I ordered a copy of the book "Tales to Astonish" because of both praise and concern in the comic fan world.  I found it to be a very readable entertaining book that relates the highs and low points of the modern comic book, from its inception in the late 1930s through Jack Kirby's career.

Criticism of this book are quite correct. There is no artwork, except for a Jack Kirby figure on the front and back. It is all text with no index.  However, it is very readable, alternating between explanation, history and dialog between the major figures.  This helps to make the story human, and show why and how things went wrong, how people felt, and what was done on both sides.

There were many  "a ha" moments for me in this book. The explanation of WHY there were only 8 Marvel comics initially distributed by National and WHY Marvel may not have made their initial superheros LOOK like tradition superheroes is very interesting.  

Also, the author has fleshed out some of the critical decisions to form partnerships and break-ups to explain more about the personalities involved. Example: Jim Steranko is a well known figure, but WHERE he came from, and WHY he fought with Stan Lee at the height of his success was very helpful.  Jack Kirby's role in supporting this  young master develop his form and then resentment at low pay for doing the majority of the layout work makes sense now.

I spotted at  least two simple factual errors: DC's Challengers of the Unknown is said to have debuted in Showcase # 7, 11, 12.... but wasn't it 6, 7, 11, 12?  Similarly, the author describes the development of  "Him" the last Kirby developed character for Marvel in Fantastic Four # 76, but I KNOW it was 66-67 because I bought them as they came out.  These small errors make me wonder if the editing was done by a non-comic fan, or someone intentionally fed mis-information to the author.

There is also a complaint that the same point or scene is repeated within a few pages of the book, over and over, being distracting cause you've just read that.  I feel this is a linking technique when some additional information from research or interview has been inserted to flesh out a point, or illuminate another aspect of comics, and it derails the central discussion of Jack Kirby.  Yes, annoying, but worked for me as it signals a return to the main theme.

All in all, I must agree this is not the definitive work on Jack Kirby, but it is a very good overview of the development of the comic book industry and hits interviews or quotes from interviews from all the major players, from Stan Lee, to Mark Evanier, Gene Colan to Gil Kane, Carmine Infantao to Julie Schwartz, Gary Groth to Greg Theakston.  In short, alot of ground has been covered.... and reasonably well.

For a cheap price, this is a very quick, very readable over-view of Kirby's work, accomplishments, heartbreaks and legacy.
I'd recommend it
