Simon Blackburn's text _Think_ presents itself as a "compelling introduction to philosophy." Indeed, at times, it lives up to its billing. However, there are some parts of Blackburn's intro text that are less than compelling and hardly convincing. Blackburn's book contains eight chapters, brief endnotes, a somewhat brief bibliography and it includes an index. The book itself is easy to read, if one has a background in philosophy. And it is hard to put down at times. However, there are two reasons why I give Blackburn's book 4 stars instead of 5 stars. First, Blackburn's tendential atheism manifests itself throughout the work. Maybe it would not be such a problem, if he didn't generally present non-rigorous arguments for theistic arguments and supply seemingly formidable arguments for the atheistic Weltanschauung. Many of Blackburn's arguments can probably be refuted by a skilled undergraduate college student, much less by the likes of Alvin Plantinga or William Lane Craig, to mention only two thinkers who specialize in theistic argumentation. For instance, Blackburn attempts to make a case (in an intro philosophy text!) for compatibilistic free will without invoking or interacting with some of the best work that has been done on free will and compatibility/incompatibility. No reference is made to works by Peter van Inwagen or some of the Reformed epistemologists. And it seems that he presents a false dilemma vis-a-vis free will and compatibilism as he tilts the scales in favor of the latter. See pages 96-97. Nevertheless, Blackburn's book does make you think, even if you vehemently disagree with him. Nevertheless, the second problem that I have with his book is the concluding chapter. Here, the professor seems to meander, wander, go off-track, asseverates without any logical backing, pontificates and frankly ends his book with a "pop" instead of a "bang." Still, all in all, _Think_ is worth reading if you're interested in debates concerning free will, evil, God's existence or the nature of knowledge (i.e. epistemology). I just wish that Blackburn had been a little fairer to those who disagree with his theoretical outlook
