Paul Barnett, After Jesus, Vol. 1, The Birth of Christianity: The First Twenty Years (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 2005).

Since the rise of modern biblical criticism, New Testament scholars have distinguished between the Jesus of history and the Christ of faith. Roughly speaking, the Jesus of history is a man whose message centered on either ethics or eschatology. By contrast, the Christ of faith is God incarnate, come to earth to offer atonement for human sins through his death and resurrection, and to establish a religious institution--the church--that would proclaim this "gospel" until the end of time. Although the Christ of faith contains the Jesus of history within himself, the Jesus of history stands in sharp contradiction to the Christ of faith. We might say that the Christ of faith is both/and, while the Jesus of history is either/or. The Christ of faith is both God and man, both savior and teacher. The Jesus of history, on the other hand, is either God or man, either savior or teacher. Or rather, since modern biblical criticism is skeptical of supernaturalism, we might say that the Jesus of history is only man and teacher.

A central problem of New Testament criticism is thus to explain how the Jesus of history became the Christ of faith. Because the New Testament paints a both/and portrait of Jesus Christ, modern biblical scholars attempt to scrape off the New Testament church's layers of Christ paint to find the original pencil drawing of Jesus that lies underneath them. Or, to use a different image, modern biblical scholars attempt to excavate beneath the living city of Christ's church to find its ancient, simple Jesus foundations. The assumption that guides this quest of the historical Jesus is a sharp division between Jesus and the church and that carries his memory.

What if this assumption is wrong, however? What if there is a fundamental continuity between history and faith, between Jesus and the Christian church? What if the New Testament portrait of Jesus Christ is both historical and faith-filled? In The Birth of Christianity: The First Twenty Years, Paul Barnett argues that "the birth of Christianity and the birth of christology are inseparable, both as to time and essence. Christianity is christology. Certainly N[ew] T[estament] churches grew out of christological preaching and were characterized by christological worship. In time the texts of the NT would arise from christological conviction. Attempts to explain the rise of Christianity by sociological or psychological grounds are doomed to failure. Christ, or should we say christological conviction, was the engine that drove early Christianity."

Formerly the Anglican bishop of North Sydney, Australia, Paul Barnett is a teaching fellow at Regent College in Vancouver, BC, and at Moore Theological College in Sydney. He has written several books on the history of Jesus and Christianity, including Jesus and the Logic of History, Jesus and the Rise of Early Christianity, and Is the New Testament Reliable? (which I have also reviewed). The Birth of Christianity is the first published volume in After Jesus, a trilogy on the history of early Christianity.

How does Barnett argue for his conclusion that "Christ, or should we say christological conviction, was the engine that drove early Christianity"? He establishes three critical "boundaries" regarding the beliefs of earliest Christianity: chronology, activity, and geography. Chronologically, Paul's letters are the earliest Christian documents, with 1 Thessalonians being securely dated to A.D. 50, that is, approximately twenty years after the death (and resurrection) of Jesus. By this time, Paul himself had been a Christian for approximately 15 years. His letters evidence a "high" Christology. He describes Jesus as "Lord," "Christ," and "Son of God." He interprets Jesus' crucifixion as a saving event. And he argues for the historicity and theological necessity of Christ's resurrection from the dead. And yet, as Barnett points out, all these Christological elements in Paul's letters are traditional elements, that is, they predate Paul. This means that Paul did not invent the high Christology of early Christianity. He inherited it.

In terms of activity, the earliest Christians were missionaries. That is to say, they spoke the "good news" about Jesus Christ to others. That message consisted not only of Jesus' teachings, but also of reports about his actions--including his death and resurrection. Peter's speeches in the Book of Acts show remarkable similarities to the Gospels' presentation of Jesus' life, teachings, death, and resurrection--especially to the Gospel of Mark. There is, in other words, continuity between the spoken message of the apostles and the written records of the evangelists. The Gospels do not represent revolutions in thinking about who Jesus was and what he did. Rather, they are evolutions from the sermons of the apostles and early Christian missionaries. Luke says as much in the preface to his Gospel: "Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seemed good also to me to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught" (Luke 1.1-4).

Finally, in terms of geography, Barnett argues that between A.D. 30 and 50, assemblies of Jewish Christians were firmly established throughout Palestine and Syria-Cilicia. Paul had not yet begun to establish churches of Gentile believers in predominantly Gentile population centers. This means that the high Christology of early Christianity developed in a Jewish, not a pagan milieu--contrary to the so-called history of religions school of thought.

In sum, the high Christology of the New Testament is--at its foundations--early, apostolic, and recognizably Jewish. Paul's letters, as well as the other writings of the New Testament, both reflect and develop this Christology. They do not, however, invent it. Since very little--if any--time and space separate the preaching of the early church from the ministry of Jesus, it is not unreasonable to conclude that very little-if anything-separates the Jesus of history from the Christ of faith
