Leaving Marvel Comics, Jack Kirby spent several years at DC Comics producing work that was extremely innovative and inspiring, but which must have disappointed Kirby on several fronts.  Though sales of his DC work were good, they weren't "Kirby good", and that caused DC to cut short his "Fourth World" epic.  Kirby did a few other truly great books at DC after that, most notably Kamandi and the Demon, but it's clear he never got the idea of techno-mythology out of his system.

And so, when disaffection at DC led to a return to Marvel, the King wasn't content just to return to his old characters (though he did a fine mid-seventies Captain America run that restored a lot of the character's luster).  The highlight of Kirby's last go-round at Marvel was "The Eternals", which is certainly a thematic child of the "New Gods" in that it combines mythology with technology.

And on the surface there is a resemblance to the Fourth World.  The stories are populated with many characters with sci-fi variants on mythological names ("Ikaris", "Sersi"), like the New Gods ("Orion", "Izaya").  But "The Eternals" was it's own animal.  While the New Gods of the Fourth World dealt with telling new myths for a scientific age, "The Eternals" concentrated on sci-fi underpinnings for existing myths and legends.  And Kirby being Kirby, he threw everything else he could imagine into the stories: lost civilizations, parallel evolution spawning superhuman cousins to man, human genetic manipulation by godlike aliens, and much, much more.

It's a Kirby classic, so it goes without saying that "The Eternals" is a wild ride.  It doesn't attempt to make as profound a statement about human nature as the Fourth World did, but the characters are more flushed out and likeable, too.  

The other similarity to the New Gods is an unfortuate one: the book didn't survive because sales weren't good enough, so Kirby did a variety of other interesting, short-lived books before again leaving Marvel in the early eighties (and beginning an ugly chapter in Marvel's relations with the man who created most of their universe, but that's another matter entirely).  

Aside from a few very fine creations at Pacific Comics (Captain Victory and Silver Star), this was Kirby's last big original creation for a mainstream publisher.  As always, Kirby was ahead of his time.

NOTE:  The book itself has taken some criticism, but I honestly don't see what the fuss is about.  Yes, seventy-five bucks retail is steep, but who pays full price these days?  And the quality of the book is very nice in my opinion.  The printing is colorful and top-notch.  All pages are easily read and nothing is obscured.  I'm very satisfied with my purchase.

RECOMMENDED
