The theme was never give up on love.  Garrett and Theresa were two people from different worlds who had both been inlove and lost it.  Both of the had retreated back in to their work, shutting out the world, having no hope of ever finding love again until they met each other.  They grew together and experience things that they were never thought they were going to be able to feel again.  When Theresa lost Garrett, she knew now that she would one day love again and that life was still worth living.  She was able to do this because of what she and Garrett had gone threw and learned together.
	This was a fantastic book.  The whole story revolved around Garrett's letters to Catherine.  These letters changed Theresa's life forever.  "Immediately after reading it, she had read it again, then a third time.  What would it be like, she mused, to have someone love her that way?"  (Sparks, Message in a Bottle, pg. 28.)  This showed the beginning of Theresa's interest in finding and meeting Garrett.  With Theresa wondering about Garrett, it kept me reading to find out if they would eventually meet and then what would happen.  After reading a news article that was posted many years ago about a letter washed up on shore, Theresa knew that Garrett had written more than just one love letter to Catherine.  Enticing her even, she couldn't wait to meet him.  "She stopped eating and abruptly put down her fork.  It can't be!  She found herself staring at the words.  It's simply not possible....but who else could it be?  She wiped her brow, aware that her hands were suddenly shaking.  Another letter?" (pg 68)  While Garrett and Theresa grow closer, Garrett has flash back of him and Catherine.  It adds the feelings that Garrett still has for Catherine and the relationship they once shared.  While Garrett and Theresa are sailing, Garrett has the flashback to his and Catherine's last time on the Happenstance.  "Catherine sad at the small table with a bottle of wine already open.  In front of her, a vase with a single flower caught the light  of a small burning candle.  The flame swayed with the boat's motion, casting long shadows across the interior of the hull.  In the semidarkness, he could just make out the ghost of a smile."  (pg 118).  Garrett's flashback of him and Catherine, while he and Theresa are sailing on the Happenstance, showed that Theresa brought out those feelings that he hadn't felt since he was with Catherine.  Just a glance into the future for him and Catherine.  After Theresa found out about Garrett's death, she immediately went to Wilmington.  Once there, Garrett's father gave her a letter that Garrett had written for her.  Theresa read that letter over and over.  Eventually when she was ready, she wrote Garrett back and set out to send him the letter at sea.  After throwing the bottle into the ocean, Theresa smiled because she knew that Garrett would get her letter.  This was showing the true and ever lasting love they had shared.  "When the bottle vanished from sight a few minutes later, she started back to the car.  Walking in silence in the rain, Theresa smiled softly.  She didn't know when or where or if it would ever turn up, but it didn't really matter.  Somehow she knew that Garrett would get the message."  (pg 370).  
