This is a wonderful book because it is so direct and honest. In it, you sense Echo Bodine as a person and you see what she has gone through in order to make her gift public. There is also heartfelt advice about entering into the healing practice.

On the first page, Echo says, "Not feeling worthy is the biggest barrier to receiving healing." I would argue that not feeling worthy is also one of the biggest barriers to being a healer as well. Echo tells of how she began offering healings while she held another job as a barber. Because of her religious upbringing, she felt for a long time that healing was God's gift and should be done for free. But when she was not getting enough rest and her bills weren't being paid, she began to see that God had not given her the gift to live in poverty. As she began to accept the gifts offered by her clients, she realized that God intended for her to support herself AND heal others.

Echo also challenges the idea that you can only heal in person. She tells of times where she was able to send healing via distance. While she tries to do most healings in person, she has found that distance healing works as well. 

In this book she offers support for those giving healings and those receiving them. She warns of patients and healers who have a sexual agenda and she answers questions about self healing and being a healer while still being faithful to God. 

What I love about this book is that it is REAL. There is little to no arrogance here. Just heartfult love and sympathy for her readers and her clients. She is willing to admit her own mistakes and grow from them. 

While I do not agree 100% with everything Echo says, this book is a valuable resource. And if you are a Christian struggling with questions about how healing works with your spiritual upbringing, you will be especially blessed. This is not necessarily a "religious" book, but Echo is a deeply spiritual person and does talk about her personal experience with Christianity and how it has affected her healing.

I think this is a must have book if you are new to healing work and you wish to gain information and support through your process (whether you are giving sessions or receiving them)
