Years ago, when I was working with and around Naval communications, in the course of conversations I would sometimes ask them questions about the work they were doing, not being nosy, but just trying to gain some knowledge about communications in general.  Being good security conscience people, they basically told me that they couldn't talk about it.  But, they suggested I read the Puzzle Palace for some insight.  So a number of years later I did.  It was interesting.  Working around communications for the better part of 30 years plus growing up around D.C., I was very familiar with some of the NSA, Army and OGA sites, which are written about in the book and could take you to those sites today.  But, time and technology has marched on.  Many of the sites from the 60's, 70's and 80's have been abandoned, and in Northern Virginia's march to cover the landscape with urban sprawl, are now shopping centers, housing developments or just plain abandoned.  Even a CG Base in California is the former location of the site where the Army intercepted Japanese communications regarding Pearl Harbor. So, to me the book was great.  It yielded the type of history in communications that marked WWII and the ensuing Cold War years.  Well, with advances in communications, satellites etc... much of the former infrastructure is outmoded and other technologies have taken their place.  For instance...  Norfolk Virginia, once home to a large communications center at the Naval Operations Base, employing hundreds of Navy Radiomen, is now a very large room occupied with a rack or two of computer gear.  Communications are no longer the labor-intensive operation it once was.  Computers do the routing and relaying, computer networks, uplinks and downlinks to satellites have replaced the Radio Communications of the past.  Quite a change from just 30, even 10 to 20 years ago.  The puzzle palace documents specific uses of that telecommunications system, in that it shows the reader the organization of secure communications, electronic intelligence gathering and associated operations.  I liked the book, yes it did read like a text, but I wasn't looking for a novel or a fiction.  As for the writers who claim this was pure fiction.  I believe they are flawed in their "expert" assessments. 
