A pleasant, easy read, I Could Never Be So Lucky Again contains the self-aware reflections of a World War II hero and one of the giants of military aviation, General James Doolittle. The book starts with the real climax of his story, the surprise air raid over Japan a year after Pearl Harbor that was a huge morale boost to America. After pulling you in with that story, Gen. Doolittle starts back at the beginning, and just works his way through his life, telling interesting anecdotes and offering personal reflections along the way.

The book's title is apt: this guy crashed more airplanes and had more close calls than I imagined someone could, without a scratch to show for it. His worst injury wasn't even from flying, but came from showing off some stunt moves in South America, when he fell from a second story balcony. He lived a full life--stunt pilot, doctorate from MIT in aeronautical engineering, military aviator, national hero, business leader.

But don't expect an engrossing thriller that yanks you through the book. At times he goes into excruciating details, especially about air raids during his time in the African and European theaters in WWII. And in terms of excitement, the Tokyo bombing raid is definitely the peak of his life, after which he became a general and wasn't even allowed to fly on missions over enemy territory. How exciting can planning strategic bombing and selling aviation fuel be?

Yet he really lets you into his heart, more than you would expect from a crusty old general from his generation. He loved his wife, whom he knew to be a huge support and foundation for his successes--she shows up in almost every chapter (and plays sweetly in the books final lines). His reflections often turn to regrets and mistakes he made, such as a serious faux pas during his first meeting with General Eisenhower. He allows his humanity to show through, and gives you a chance to learn from his mistakes. As a result, I left knowing that this national hero didn't deserve a pedestal after all--which I almost think is the way Doolittle wanted it
