While "The Essential Drucker" is a great compilation of Drucker's work and is essential reading for anybody interested in management, this book (The Daily Drucker) could be thought of as the essence of Drucker's wisdom or Drucker's greatest hits condensed. The late Peter F. Drucker invented the discipline that we know as Management. He is the undisputed Father of Modern Management and regarded by many to be the Preeminent Business Philosopher. This book is an excellent summary of his teachings, written over six decades and published in journals, magazines and over 30 books. I am amazed at the breadth and depth of this book. Drucker has written on almost every subject related to management and this book covers a lot of his writings. 
However, I do not recommend this book as a shortcut to Drucker or as your first book written by him. To internalize (study in detail and make part of your thinking) his work you would have to read a minimum of five of his masterpieces. I would recommend "The Essential Drucker" or "The Effective Executive" as your first book instead of this one. This book should be used as a summary that you read from time to time, to refresh your knowledge and to keep you thinking. As said Drucker, "Knowledge has to be improved, challenged, and increased constantly, or it vanishes."
Imagine Drucker's wisdom as coffee beans. You need to process (read and analyze) his work to brew your own coffee. The editors of this book have read through all of his work and presented to the world the essence of his wisdom in 366 espresso shots.
As with every Drucker book, there is wisdom on every page. You will be forced to think. I also enjoy the action points at the end of each page. I will not give you excerpts of this book. Instead I recommend you scroll to the top of the page and select "Search inside this book" located under the image of the cover, followed by "Excerpt" and "Surprise Me".
I own this book in Digital Download (Adobe Reader) format. I recommend it highly. When I wish to take a break when I'm on my laptop, I open this e-book and read it. I don't like to read books online. But this one is more like flash cards than a book. Hence, I believe that e-book is an excellent format for this book. I have browsed through the hardbound edition at bookstores. I recommend that highly too, if you prefer your books in print. Whether in print or digital, I recommend this book as a great way to start the day.
Drucker happens to be my favorite author and the only "guru" among management authors. If my review was helpful to you, I request you to select "Yes" so that the rating is improved and more readers will get to read it. For more information on this author please read my "So You'd Like To... Guides" on the best management books and my other reviews (select my username to get to those pages).
