I'm a friend of the author and have been with him in the field for some of the shots in this book. I can say Piotr is a driven man - at the end of a long day of hiking, entomologizing, and shooting - when it's time to quit he invariably pushes on, stretching his words "just 5 more minutes!" into another hour or so. Of course, it's in those last 5 minutes of that extra two hours that he gets the shot he wants - which he will invariably describe as being merely "OK". (He's also terribly humble).

I've been learning macrophotography from Piotr which has given me an insider's perspective on his work. For example, I once spent 8 hours trying to replicate a photograph he had taken 4 years earlier (of the dolichopodid fly on page 165).  His photograph is simply perfect - the light, the resolution of detail - and those flies are both very small and very flighty! My efforts were often frustrated by slight breezes that would ruin my shot (moving the leaf the fly rested on). After the day of shooting (hundreds of shots) my best shot was simply not close to matching the quality of Piotr's. Sometimes he gets lucky with a shot, but most of the photos in this book are the result of incredible effort, patience, knowledge, and vision.

Often books of such great photography have little to offer in the text, The Smaller Majority is an exception. Piotr has written about the subjects of his photographs with authoritative detail. He has also included anecdotes describing some of his experiences with these animals. These explain his passion, for Piotr is first and foremost a biologist.  His masterful photography grew out of his scientific love of biodiversity.

The photographs are stunning but, as Naskrecki explains in the text, it is the animals themselves and their habitats that are truly incredible - and it is these priceless works of evolutionary art that our species is exterminating - due in large part to ignorance.  This book is thus less of a collection of surperb photographs and more of an effort to inform, inspire, and remind people that we have ample reasons to keep on sharing our planet with all of its myriad life forms. 

This book is perfect in every important way - the photos and text are plainly awesome, but the quality of the printing, the paper and even the price are simply remarkable.
