In a serious examination of the dominant mythology in our society, Mack warns his readers at the outset that they face three serious challenges.  First, the notion that one source accounts entirely for Christian origins must be dismissed.  Second, a new theory of religion, one based on social situations must be launched.  This theory must take into account the conditions in which Christian origins emerged.  Third, and most difficult to address, is the need to contemplate the "two millennium sweep of Christianity and into the 21st century".  This triplet means shedding the self-reflexive approach that has dominated biblical scholarship for 1700 years.  We need, he says, to understand the process of social formation and myth making that underlay the foundation of building a church.  Scholars must abandon the "notions of divine intervention miracle" which is such a significant source of how Christians view the world.  Instead, the same academic rigour shown in investigations of other mythologies must be applied to the Christian one.

A major element long omitted from Christian origins scholarship is the upheavals Eastern Mediterranean society endured.  The Jews, never victorious in wars and subjected to incessant invasions and exiles, were amenable to a healer's voice.  Jesus, who probably lived, became the focus of scattered and disparate groups of "students" recording, discussing and distributing his teachings.  Essential to understanding Christian origins are the documents known as the "Q" teachings.  These may have survived for a time as a collection, but incorporated into the Synoptic Gospels in various ways.  Fundamental in this process, Mack proposes, is the redefinition of society found in these writings.  The redefinition uses four devices to accomplish its goal.  He calls them the "Building Blocks of a Monocratic Mythology".

The one god.  Since single ancestral gods are almost a human universal, the transformation of one of these into one, absolute and uncompromising, deity was a major innovation.  While the Jews had adopted, and sometimes cast aside, a variety of deities in their history, the writers of the Synoptic gospels declared such indulgent practices unacceptable.  Now, using the figure of Jesus as an instrument to lever a local concept into a global one - a new, absolute  divinity acting as a canopy over all people.  This approach set off the expansion of intolerance unfinished today.  Mack declares this monocratic method "audacious" in scope.  

In order to further the idea of restructuring society as a divine manifestation, the gospel narratives added the fictions of miracles and resurrection to the earlier "Q" teachings.  By building on widely known stories of "kings' sons" performing prodigious feats, the gospel writers display their knowledge of their intended audiences.  Nothing truly innovative was introduced beyond the idea that this god and his son were actually one.  The one being the universal deity, however, placed it in a position of universal judge of all humanity.  Mack finds the amalgamation and use of miracles as "proof" a "fantastic" stroke of creative writing.

As the various Jesus groups debated just what Jesus said, and what those sayings meant, they exchanged ideas among the neighbouring ones.  These "schools of Jesus", which crossed the recognised cultural boundaries of the Near East, became "communities" of commonly-held views.  Having moved "outside" their traditional allegiances, these communities generated a new "superstate".  As the gospel narratives were circulated among its "citizens" a new social structure, which Mack labels "imperious" emerged within the Roman Imperium.

Finally, and to Mack clearly a major consideration, the bible narratives became the tool for completing the social restructuring.  It became, he says, "an epic charter" by rewriting history while redefining society.  The Jewish bible was transformed into a collection of forecasts of Jesus arrival.  At the same time it condemned the Jews for not reading the signals.  This allowed the Jesus movement to abandon its Jewish roots and embrace the Gentile community.  The use of textual form granted credibility to this approach.  Christian writers were then able to define history to suit their agenda.  By declaring their history the only true one, they used this fiction as a bludgeon for conversion.  Mack's assessment of this technique as "arrogant" is impossible to refute.

At this point, Mack narrows his audience to citizens of his own country.  How does the myth building process of Christianity apply to people of the United States?  He provides a brief swift summary of expressions of the bits of the Christian myth.  This is followed by how it has been applied there. Tracing its roots is difficult, since the Enlightenment, not Christianity, is usually seen as the more significant influence.  Mack contends the Enlightenment idea was "reconceptualised" by the North Americans, incorporating long-established traditions into the new communities from the outset.  Thus, Christianity was considered an essential element in North American society as it expanded.  Public policy is declared, whether or not the assertion is valid, as grounded in "Christian principles".  Mack exposes the fallacies in that declaration, from the theft of the land from indigenous peoples through the hypocrisies of slavery to "manifest destiny".  Mack concludes with the warning that the Christian call for conversion and obedience is invalid in today's "multiethnic, multicultural world".  It's a caution that needs wide expression and acceptance.  [stephen a. haines - Ottawa, Canada
