Rajiv Chandrasekaran's excellent book, "Imperial Life in the Emerald City" is unusually different from the recent books published about what went wrong in Iraq. While others tell of Iraq from an outsider's point of view, Chandrasekaran gives us a look at Iraq from the inside...from the vantage point of the protected American enclave known as the "Green Zone"... and what a look it is!

It has been common knowledge for a long time that the planning for the post-invasion period in Iraq was woefully ill-planned and the author makes it clear through detailed descriptions of how and why this happened. His focus is on Lewis Paul ("Jerry") Bremer III, the head of the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) and successor to the ill-fated Jay Garner. Bremer, nicknamed "the viceroy", was a seasoned diplomat from a preppy background but had had a good deal of experience in the diplomatic world. The choice of him as director, however, was one of convenience after other larger luminaries were passed over for the job. Bremer's yearlong tenure in the Green Zone was marked by bad decisions by Bremer (de-Baathification being the worst) coupled with a personality that didn't exactly help to unite his underlings. Chandrasekaran exposes Bremer perfectly and it is easily the great central theme of the book.

Along the way, the author richly contrasts life inside the Green Zone to the one outside. (The "Emerald City" was a perfect name for the Green Zone as it was an oasis in a deeply troubled country) Detail is never overlooked by Chandrasekaran... it's hard to imagine that Bremer actually wanted $9 million for a national Iraqi ZIP Code project, for instance! Added to all of this was the political infighting of Iraqi leaders, the inability of those in Washington to understand any of the mess they had created and the witness of a quick rise in sectarian fighting and the slow demise of a country the United States had committed itself to save and rebuild.

"Imperial Life in the Emerald City" is smoothly narrated and Rajiv Chandrasekaran deserves lots of praise for this unique contribution to our recent history in Iraq. I highly recommend it
