"Nano-" is a prefix meaning one-billionth (just as "giga-" is a prefix meaning one billion).   A nanometer is one-billionth of a meter, and as the authors illustrate on page 24, a nanometer is about ten hydrogen atoms wide while a typical biological cell is thousands of nanometers wide.  It is useful to understand that nanotechnology is then about manipulating the very small irrespective of the technological field or science involved.

This is an important point and one the Jack Uldrich and Deb Newberry emphasize throughout this breezy and readable introduction to how nanotechnology is going to change our lives over the next couple of decades.  Manipulating the very small, molecule by molecule, and even atom by atom, will prove enormously useful in a wide range of industries, from space exploration and the airline business to the modification of foods to the treatment and prevention of disease.  Consequently what this book is about is not only building ultra-turbo'ed computers and superslick surfaces for airplanes and submarines, but about genetically modified foods and stem cell research.

This book just skims the surface of what is going on and gives the reader some idea about where the action is and what is likely to develop in the next few years.  Starting in 2003, they project what products and services are likely to be available today (Chapter Five: "2004 & 2005: Faster, Smaller, Cheaper, Better"); a few years from now (Chapter Six: "2006-2008: The Avalanche Begins"); a decade down the road (Chapter Seven: "Taking Control"); and on into the future (Chapter Eight: "2013 & Beyond: The World Becomes Smaller and Smarter").  

Their book-business spin is how these changes will affect YOUR business.  The watchword is "disruptive," because a new nanoengineered product has the potential for putting present day businesses OUT of business.  Just as the internal combustion engine changed the landscape of America, and electricity transformed our world in ways that nobody at the time could reliably predict, the products and services made possible by the manipulation of the very, very small, will (very soon) change the way we live in ways we cannot fully predict--which suggests the question, Which are the horse and buggy businesses of today?

Since this book is aimed at readers interested in the possible impact of the nanoworld on their businesses, the authors suggest how many advances will play out:  First, the military or the space program or a large corporation will develop at high cost the new technology.  Then, as the technology is seen to work, it will spread to "very high-end niches" such as in sports and recreation (yacht racing and mountain climbing, for example) where people are ready to pay a high price for just a little improvement.  From there the technology will be taken up by "high-end markets" (fancy cars, expensive cosmetics, etc.) and from there as the price continues to fall "to everyday products (e.g., kitchen appliances, bikes, and toys)..." and so on. (p. 166)

Conservative people the world over are understandably upset at some of the prospects.  By manipulating individual biological cells and their attendant chemistry, we might be able to grow new limbs and organs for our bodies, possibly including a whole new YOU.  Food products will be modified to include imbedded vitamins and pesticides (this is already being done), but also medicines and even contraceptives.  We will be able to wear or have implanted in our bodies super-fast computers.  Indeed, it may happen that we will become the cyborgs of science fiction, making it hard to tell where our genetic biology ends and our enhanced body begins.  We may in fact cross over some unmarked threshold and become something other than human.

While the authors are not looking this far ahead, it is interesting to note that Chapter Seven is subtitled "Taking Control."  The irony here is that with identity tags ("nanosensors") imbedded in every product (and possibly into EVERYBODY) we ourselves will not be taking control.  Rather the technology will be taking control of us.  Remember that biological evolution on this once lifeless planet began with chemistry, and now the products of that chemistry (us) are reaching out to control the planet.  Might not our technology some day control us?

Oh, Brave New World,/ That has such things in it!--to paraphrase Shakespeare (from The Tempest).

In the final chapter the authors do address the ethical, philosophical and social aspects of nanotechnology-enabled advances in our lives and warn that many people will be against them (indeed many people already are against them).  It will not be a case of a technology taking off smoothly.  Whether the best technique or product wins out in the marketplace (as the Qwerty keyboard, VHS technology, and Microsoft showed us) may depend on how resistant people are to change, how intrenched one technology is, and how the politics play out.  The brave new world of nanotechnology will transform the planet, no question about that, but when and how is, as the authors advise, entirely unclear.

Nonetheless the authors emphasize the positive aspects of the great changes to come.  They see nanotechnology giving us cheaper energy, solving our fresh water and pollution problems, enabling us to live longer and better lives, etc.  Personally I welcome the excitement and change to come, and I envy those younger than I who will see a lot more of it
