The last priest of Holy Wood, a sandy little hill near Ankh-Morpork, dies without a successor.

Were his daily chants and rituals actually holding something at bay, or were they the meaningless drivel of a dead religion?

Soon after his death, an alchemist in Ankh-Morpork invents the moving picture--the difficult part was to keep the film from exploding.  Victor Tugelbend, perpetual student-wizard and "the laziest person in the history of the world" sees the first moving picture projected on a sheet in an Ankh-Morpork square.  The next thing he knows, Victor is on the road to Holy Wood, along with C.M.O.T. Dibbler, low-life purveyor of 'sausage inna bun' and Gaspode, the Wonder Dog (the only one of the three who was smart enough to hitch a ride in a lumber wagon).

Holy Wood is now a ramshackle town, thrown together practically overnight and overflowing with humans, dwarfs, and trolls who want to make moving pictures.  Companies like 'Century of the Fruitbat Moving Pictures,' and 'Floating Bladder Pictures' are cranking out two-reelers like 'Sword of Passione,' 'The Third Gnome,' and 'Turkey Legs.'

Victor falls into the role of leading man.  Dibbler extorts his way into the role of leading producer.  Victor's leading lady, Ginger keeps dreaming that she's standing on a grate with hot air blowing up her skirt---that is when she's not walking in her sleep and trying to wake Something slumbering in the cave beneath the brand new city.

Reality is stretching thin between worlds.  When Dibbler decides to make a moving picture about Ankh-Morpork's Civil War, called 'Blown Away,' Holy Hell breaks loose.

"Moving Pictures" is Pratchett's satirical look at everything Hollywood, with puns and allusions rocketing overhead like shooting stars.  Many of his references are way over my head, e.g. 'Floating Bladder Pictures' and a moving picture called 'Turkey Legs,' but movie aficionados should nail down every one.  At least I figured out the golden statue named Oswald (or Osric), and the gigantic woman climbing the Tower of Art with a tiny ape clutched in its hand.

Basically, a good time is had by all in "Moving Pictures."  Although it is not as deeply philosophical as some of Pratchett's Disworld novels, Gaspode, the Wonder Dog does have some great lines, especially when he's shooting the breeze with the Rabbit, the Mouse and the Cat, and the Duck (waack waack waack waack!  Sorry Walt).
