Do not view this book as merely a "defense of the resurrection" - a number of more slender volumes can accomplish that feat. This book is instead a significant historical and theological treatment of the idea and doctrine of the resurrection within a wide variety of ancient sources. While it does result in an affirmation of the historic Christian position that Jesus indeed rose from the dead, this book also serves more broadly as an historical and theological reference work. 

I have found, in particular, Wright's discussions of the gospel accounts to be some of the most useful contemporary commentary on Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John available. In exploring the final chapters of each gospel, he provides insight into each gospel's individual purpose and also the unity of the four. And DO NOT MISS Wright's discussion of Mark's abrupt (or not?) ending! Whereas many scholars are all too happy to view Mark as a gospel without a resurrection account, Wright offers crippling critique against this modern view and provides compelling evidence that the resurrected Jesus of Matthew and Luke is likewise the risen Lord of Mark.

I offer this example because some will not wish to read this book cover to cover, yet you should know that large sections of this book will still prove helpful. My example (the gospel accounts) comes near the end of this large volume; there are numerous other issues explored that I haven't begun to discuss here! (Old Testament view of resurrection, intermediate state, Jewish understanding of resurrection in Jesus' day...)

I suspect Wright will be (or has been) dismissed by liberal theologians unwilling to allow to the table someone who would indeed call Jesus "Lord." Yet as one whose nose has been in plenty of more skeptical volumes, whether biblical commentaries or works on the "historical Jesus," I find that Wright's scholarship is as rigorous as anything I've yet to see. Surprisingly, he is also quite readable: a rare and fortunate combination.

I should note that I don't agree with some of Wright's views concerning Jesus as expressed in his earlier work, "Jesus and the Victory of God."  But this book has given me tremendous respect for N.T. Wright. (His newer volume entitled "Simply Christian" is also a gem.)  But for a work of this magnitude, with so much that is useful to the historian, theologian, or (for that matter) evangelist -- I must give this 5 stars.
