Those who read PERSUASION by Jane Austen tend to view it as a book primarily concerned with marriage in the typical Austen romantic comedy sense of young ladies seeking to marry upward and young men also seeking partners--but not necessarily to each other.  While much of Austen's novel deals with precisely that, to view this solitary strand of thought as Austen's most telling point is surely to miss that point totally.  In PERSUASION, Austen took her earlier PRIDE AND PREJUDICE and sought to show that her view on how single women relate to their families, their friends, their proposed husbands and to society at large underwent a significant change from the latter to the former. 

In PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, Austen places Elizabeth Bennett squarely in the traditional role of the 18th century woman who sought somehow to gain economic equality with men in such a way so as not to upset or circumvent the established social order that dictated that women must obey their parents and marry the men whom they selected as suitable candidates.  Miss Bennett uses reason and general smarts to cause changes in Darcy that would in turn cause changes in the larger social order that acted as a behind the scenes puppeteer. The comedy then was a function of a small change in Miss Bennett causing a larger one in Darcy. In PERSUASION, Austen takes the similar plot of a young woman breaking up with a man that perhaps needed breaking up with and updated it to include Anne Elliot doing much the same thing with Captain Wentworth. In Elizabeth Bennett's case, Darcy determined not be chased away.  In Anne Eliot's case, Wentworth made no such determination and left the scene for eight years.  The difference between the two acts of breaking up and their respective reconciliations did not lay in a profound change in the social order.  What changed was Jane Austen, who became more finely attuned to the winds of Romanticism that were then wafting from one country to another.  The relentless focus on rationalism that dominated the Augustan Age had slowly morphed over just a few decades to one in which human feeling and emotion trumped human reason.

Austen, in her choice of "Persuasion" as the title, subtly implied that what was at stake was not simply potential marriage partners waltzing a predictable if unstable dance towards the altar.  Rather, she wished to point the reader in the direction of seeing not only how and why persuasive rhetoric might impact on lovers' lives, but also to ascertain the consequences of treating emotional people as if they were devoid of those emotions. In Miss Bennett's case, "persuasion" was used in the context of rational discourse used to alter the world view of Darcy. In Anne Elliot's case, it was used to fortify the existing social order at the expense of using "right reason" to convince Anne to break up with Wentworth on the grounds that he was simply too low on the economic and social pecking order to marry a woman who is supposed to be a few rungs higher than he.  Actually, Austen satirizes Anne by implying that, if anything, her loftier position in society, exists mostly in her and her father's eyes, not at society's at large.  Anne differs from Elizabeth Bennett in that in PERSUASION, Anne sees that she has erred in being falsely persuaded but is allowed to show and vent emotion in re-establishing accepted marital order even if the somewhat stodgier and old-fashioned social order balks.  As Anne Elliot uses both head and heart to win back the love of a man who felt rightfully scorned for no good reason, Jane Austen focused attention on basic human romantic entanglements that for many frustrated lovers remain tangled even today.
