This story of youthful conversion strangely remains the most famous of Merton books, and is usually called a "classic spiritual autobiography"  though it is really neither.  Which is not to say it lacks value; it is evident that decades after publication it retains its original power for many.  Doubtless its status owes a lot to its partial inarticulateness, and the obvious youth of its subject.  Others at about the same stage of life may justly understand it and prize those qualities, and gloss over its faults. It has a certain unabashed personal quality that cannot be faked.

Truth is, the Merton who penned this book was somewhat self-dramatizing, a quality that cannot be attributed to his order, his abbot, censors, etc.  He came indeed to recognize this later.  His sins, such as they were at this stage of life, have been documented in Michael Matt's authoritative biography, and are not significantly out of the ordinary for a son of Bohemian parents and an orphan at early age.  The self-chastisement for wine, women, and song is way overdone; all his youthful friends male and female grew up to be solid citizens and they really were not that far off the beam from the start.  

So much for straight autobiography; as far as its spiritual side it demonstartes a refreshingly candid acceptance of Catholic devotional life, but nothing of the dimensionality and erudition the writer later became famous for.  The dismissal of certain Protestant spiritual paths is superficial and arch, and later embarrassed Merton himself.  Yet again, this is what he himself wanted to put in; no one forced him to do it.  The funny thing was that young Merton was simultaneously doing some good straight journal writing, some remarkable modernist fiction (My Argument With the Gestapo plus some lost manuscripts) and interesting poetry.

Simply, the effort was an early attempt to reinvent himself on paper.  He later (and not greatly later) discovered this was impossible.  The appeal in its own day was that it struck a chord in many in the immediate post-World War 2 world, emblematic of a second "lost generation." 

But where lies its continuing appeal?  One can only surmise that it strikes a continuing chord.  In many ways, the 2nd world war never ended.  The materialism and consumerism that became more evident in its wake never let up, and is now in hyperdrive.  People know in their gut there is much more; a few will always leave the pack and go exploring in that direction.  Most will excuse a few unsightly warts for a personal statement that is still broadly honest, where it counts.  And finally, there is the singular facet of the choice for a devotional life.  Although of course this will never make sense to many, even many Catholics from those days or from now, still this is a definable chunk of any human population that will never go away -- that remnant who will follow this true sort of "call of the wild" and follow the lamb anywhere
