Baldacci was a journalist for the Chicago Sun-Times and served on their editorial board. Among other things, she wrote about the shortcomings of the Chicago Public School system. Then she decided to put her money where her mouth was (quite literally, she took a two-thirds pay cut), signed on for an alternative teacher certification program, and began teaching in an inner-city grade school.

I admit I was skeptical at first. After all, here was someone who'd been telling the schools what to do from her journalist's ivory tower, probably thought she knew it all, and could cut and run back to her well-paying career if teaching went sour. Well, she didn't. She's still teaching.

All those folks who think teachers should be paid according to how test scores improve, who blame the teachers because kids can't read or are uncontrollable, need to read this book. It's been said before, but it needs to be heard. 

You try it. Take a class of 36 kids, some of whom are homeless, or live in a home with crack addicts, who don't get enough to eat (except at school). Don't have supplies except what you buy yourself. Have the room be too hot in summer and too cold in winter. Do this in a school where the administration doesn't care about whether kids learn as long as they're quiet. Be downgraded for initiative. Teach to the test. Spend your free time and weekends grading and making lesson plans. Never get what you need until it's too late. Don't forget to learn all the different gang signals, and be sure to duck when there's shooting outside the classroom window. Get paid $24,000. Then talk about it.

It amazes me anyone is still teaching. But then there are folks like Baldacci, and the teacher named Donna who asked her why she took a two-thirds pay cut.

"Because a voice called and I answered," I told her. It was the first time I'd admitted that out loud to anyone outside my family and a few close friends. Although I did not know her well, I felt she would understand. She jerked her head and looked at me in surprise. Then a smile spread across her face.

"My sister," she greeted me, as if meeting me for the first time. 
