This is a fascinating true story about the sudden and mysterious disappearance of backcountry ranger Randy Morgenson in the Sierra Mountains somewhere near his assigned area. What is remarkable is the detail about Morgenson and the lives of the backcountry rangers who live isolated for much of their summer assignment up in the high country living in primitive cabins alone many miles away from hard surface roads and permanent camps and seperated from each other by 20 miles or more by rough trail in the mountains. What is particularly mystifying is that Morgenson was a highly dedicated and seasoned mountain ranger with 28 years of experience. Knowledgable  about aiding and saving the misfortunate on the trails and in seruous cases, recovering bodies. Morgenson suddenly disappears in July 1996 and a focused manhunt in the wilds of the mountains takes place without a clue as to his diappearance. The bulk of the center of the book is a detailed biography of this virtual mountainman and of his very supportive wife and fellow backcountry rangers. By learning of his dedication and virtual obsession with the mountains it seems more unbelievable that something could happen to Morgenson. A highly personal look at the man and his family, his wife and the rangers he served with, his marriage begins to fracture in spite of the faith of his wife to endure long periods with him away and as he suddenly disappears there are some questions that are never quite answered until most of the mystery over time is solved. I had wished there were more maps as  the pages turn to help focus on how the landmarks fit geographically and at times the long deviations from the search can be disruptive but it also  made me read more frantically to find out what happens next. A very interesting book and a tremendous view of the hardlife but dedicated rangers who work in rough country isolated except through the ocassional contact with a hiker/climber, delivery of stock supplies and the radio contact that relied heavily on the condition of the radio and its batteries.    
