I read "Back When We Were Grown-Ups" a few months back and did not enjoy the novel much.  I found the characters to be boring and annoying and the theme pointless.  But I loved the tone Anne Tyler writes in.  It's somehow so calming and lyrical so I decided to take another stab with Anne Tyler's "Saint Maybe." And I am so happy I did.  Not only did I get to once again experience Tyler's great writing style, but I cared about the characters and was interested in the plot.  I especially enjoyed the earlier part of the novel.

Did anyone else love the funny yet sad scene when Agatha tried to clean Daphne's diaper and ending up breaking the tiolet?  Or when Thomas was trying to remember their old life in the trailer and thought the best way to find their old home was to find the rainbow that was over their trailer.  Or later on in the novel when the children were trying to fix Ian up with their teacher and mischevious Daphne recalled "her dream" at the dinner table to upset another dinner guest they viewed as a threat for Ian's attention.  Sprinkled throughout this novel are such great little funny moments.

And equally prevalent are the sad moments.  And not just the death of Ian's brother Danny and his wife Lucy.  But when the children do not want to be sent away and don't "know or recall" names, dates, places, to elude their relatives from being found.  Or witnessing their mother's basic breakdown and her desperate solution to find a new man (the typewriter man).  Bea's death, the family dogs death, etc...

When I first read the description of this novel, I thought Ian was going to become entangled with a zealous Christian cult, a subject I am not interested in.  But instead of finding this Church of Second Chances ludricious, (although some rules were) their basic message to work for forgiveness I thought was a sound one.  Like life, trust, relationships, work, forgiveness also takes effort.  Although I don't think I could have given my entire life as Ian seemed too but at least he was noticed for doing so.  Agatha, Thomas, and Daphne genuinely loved him and he them.  

My only complain about this book revolved around the swift changes of time.  All of a sudden it was 1988 and Ian was having his own child.  In the latter part of the book I did not feel as connected with the characters as I had in the beginning and middle. 
