Having read this and the other LBJ books by Mr. Caro, I recently revisted this book.  While I do agree with other reviews that Mr. Caro seems more comfortable dealing in absolutes and not shades of grey, I also suggest that in doing so he shows up the dichotomies of Lyndon Johnson.  He does bad things to get power (and in fact profits from some practices both in more power and in dollars), then uses power to help.  His Great Society was not just an attempt to out-do FDR, but to continue to assist the poor as he had while a young congressman fighting for rural electrification.  Perhaps at sum LBJ simply was of the same cut as Willie Stark in "All the Kings Men", who said "we are born in the stink of the dydie and die in the stink of the shroud.  Good comes from bad because there is nowhere else for it to come from."

Mr. Caro does paint a harsh picture of LBJ, but at the same time brings to light aspects of LBJ's life that had not previously been examined in depth-especially his relationship with his father.  While Mr. Caro is not a licenses therapist, his estimation of how that relationship shaped LBJ seems on target.

The biographical section on Sam Rayburn is wonderful, and I remember when this book came out that this section was considered to be the closest thing to a solid Rayburn bio until D.B. Hardemann's bio of Rayburn almost ten years later.

The place where Mr. Caro really excels is in describing a place and a time, then framing events in that perspective.  My understanding of the crushing need for rural electrification was greatly enhanced by his lengthy description of what the women of the Texas Hill Country had to endure to can food given that they had no electricity to use to run refrigerators.  This ability, in addition to his reasearch, is the reason why this book is essential for a full historical record of LBJ's life, but also critical for understanding the world LBJ grew up in and that shaped him.

A great book.  Buy it, and read it over and over again
