I read the Earthsea Trilogy as an adolescent. I remember loving it, although the experience was, even then, very different for me. I was a fan of C.S. Lewis, Tolkein, Lloyd Alexander. But Leguin felt really differrent. Part of this was that the novel was more intellectual in focus, more about what lies at the heart of her characters and less about overt action, heroics. I remembering being surprised that the plot moved so quickly away from the obvious. In this novel the hero, Ged, very early on makes terrible mistakes. Instead of being brave and untarnished, he's afraid and for some time runs away from the evil he's unleashed. This is not obvious fantasy fare. It doesn't fit the formula, and for that I loved it. Adolescence was, for me, a time of much uncertainty and doubt and sometimes outright fear. I really connected with Ged and appreciated being able to read about a troubled, damaged hero who wasn't always perfect. Also, I did note that LeGuin is careful to describe her character's racial diversity. This is a world of brown and black people, with a few paler ones living at the margins of society. I think people often miss this, but I didn't then.

And I didn't when I reread it recently. All the things I admired in the first place are still there on the page. That cultural diversity is still a part of it, although LeGuin may have been a little too subtle - as many people don't seem to notice this at all - including the filmakers adapting her work. Another thing I noticed now, though, that I didn't when I was younger, is how solid the craft of LeGuin's writing is. Sentence by sentence, description by description, dialogue by dialogue: she's a very good writer. She lean and economical and moves her story forward like a fine craftsperson.

This is a wonderful novel of a wonderful series. I've got quite a bit to do these days in my adult life, but it's quite a pleasure to know that at some point in the next few months I'll be able to pick up the next in the series and carry on a little ways. I look forward to it
