This all started with the publication in 1993 of Thompson's, "Early History of the Israelite People: ...," followed by a denial of tenure by Marquette University and his sacking by the institution.  Although, Thompson's current resume shows him heading directly to the University of Copenhagen after leaving Marquette, Thompson alludes to a period of academic unemployment and house painting for a living.  Some reviewers here feel he should have stuck with the house painting.  I think that is mean spirited, but the entire discussion of history and the Bible has become rather uncivil of late.  With the publication of this book in 1999, a war of words began between his detractors in and out of the academy and Thompson and his supporters.  

Marquette is a Roman Catholic institution and had every right to deny tenure to Thompson and then fire him. A private sectarian institution has no obligation to maintain the employment of a party that does not subscribe to the basic doctrines of the employer when adherence to such doctrines is a term of employment. This was a bad situation for both the institution and the scholar.  From Marquette's point of view, they are probably happy they concluded their relationship with Thompson  expeditiously.  One needs look no further than the example of Robert M. Price at Drew University to understand what happens when a scholar is allowed to operate outside the doctrinal boundaries of an institution for an extended period of time.

This work by Thompson is cranky in its own right as has been pointed out by others.  He is dismissive of those who do not agree with him.     However, to a large degree, his analysis has energized the discourse both scholarly and otherwise on the Bible and history.  The four star rating by me of this work is based on its influence on this discussion. This is an argumentative essay as has been pointed out by a previous reviewer and should be judged as such.  His scholarly output is immense and I find it of varied quality.  His "The Historicity of the Patriarchal Narratives: ..." is magisterial in my opinion while his latest work, "The Messiah Myth: ..." is not going to convince many which I have stated in my review of it here on Amazon.  As to his analysis of the ills informing the interface of archaeology, history, and biblical literature as presented here, it has needed to be engaged by his detractors not merely dismissed.  There are nuggets of truth in this work that will just not go away.

As to his detractors, they have gone way beyond cranky.  Dever's assertions of anti-Semitic motivations on Thompson's part are reprehensible and unjustified.  Others have said worse of this man and his work, and you can find it right here in the reviews of this book.  The degree to which the archaeology of ancient Israel has become a football driven by the needs of religion is scandalous.  Furthermore, it has a political dimension within the state of Israel.  Recently a discovery of ruins in Jerusalem was announced as the palace of Solomon.  As Israel Finkelstein put it, we should be ecstatic that these discoveries push back the date of Jerusalem's urban habitation without the gratuitous speculation as to their use in the past.  In large measure Thompson and his work has become a "lightning rod" for the discontent of the orthodox with modern scholarship.  If that was his intent, he has done his job well.  Regardless of our own thoughts on this book, it is an important work in my opinion that deserves sober consideration.    

        
   
