Before you're even halfway through this trim volume (a collection of homilies on a wide variety of subjects) you'll realize that the author has a firm grasp of orthodox theology as well as a broad and compassionate sense of mission for all believers. She tells of positive encounters with people of other faiths, and she comes away from the experiences with a clear sense that anyone seeking God, no matter what their path, is moving in the same direction as she is. What's particularly amazing is that she treats these people as her equals and relates these encounters without resorting to Christian triumphalism. She possesses a very clear vision of Christ's mission and works daily to live it by example. 

I was particularly impressed by the way she tries to deal with anyone she doesn't understand, doesn't get along with, or doesn't agree with, no matter whether they're family, or someone of a different faith or belief system that she encounters half a world away. She reminds herself that no matter who they are, they're still a child of God, even if it's not easy for her to see that. She prays, "Oh God, let me see your image in this person, and may they see your image in me as well." It's a simple yet powerful prayer, and one that we should all take to heart.

As an Episcopalian, I'm well aware -- from a number of comments made in the press over the years -- that some prominent Christians have judged the Episcopal church as being too welcoming, too ecunemical and sometimes too tolerant, but that's an oversimplification of the situation, and something Schori attempts to address through the passages in this book. The Episcopal Church has broad shoulders, and she appears to believe it operates in part on the notion that it would rather be judged for being too compassionate than be judged for being too judgmental and divisive through legalistic interpretations of Scripture, such as using some of the 613 Old Testament laws to condemn others while overlooking our own inablility to follow them all. I was very pleased that at no time in this book did she ever let her message get dragged down in strict legalism, doctrinal disputes or political issues, instead choosing to focus nearly all her energies on teaching us how to become living examples of the greatest commandment, that we strive to love one another. 

The new presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church reminds us that God came in the flesh for everyone, and responds to anyone who truly seeks Him. She points out that in the Book of Isaiah, God makes it abundantly clear that when the Kingdom arrives, people will come from all the world and all the nations, and the most important thing we can do on our watch is to be good ambassadors for our faith. In this wonderful little book, she lays out her vision and introduces herself to a world that's certainly in need of more like her. This book will allow you to get to know her on a personal level, and I hope and pray that she has a impactful and fruitful term as our new Presiding Bishop. Shalom
