I enjoyed "Chore Whore" and think that this should be on your beach read summer list.  It's a look into the life of being a personal assistant and although it is fiction, the author knows firsthand since she was herself a personal assistant for some twenty odd years.

Corki Brown is a great assistant to many of Hollywood's stars but like Hollywood these stars are fickle and unloyal.  Corki does everything except wipe these client's butts at the expense of her 10 year old son Blaise who is constantly crying out for attention in his behavior.  Blaise is one of my favorite characters, a little boy that is wise beyond his years but still a little boy which is what Corki sometimes forgets in her never-ending need to please.  She works for clients that don't understand the word no, it's foreign to them.  What does she get in return for over twenty years of service?  Well, no work from clients at a moment's notice, no health benefits, and very little sleep.  She's also aging in a town of women that don't want to look over 25.  Her main client Lucy lets her boyfriend practically replace her with two girls whose only previous assistant experience is being part of a foursome.  I respect the fact that Corki stayed true to her beliefs until the end in not giving her client's lives to the tabloids although that would have been the easy route.

Heather Howard's descriptions are dead on of L.A. and the attitudes that go with it.  I suspect Ms. Howard may be fielding movie offers right at this moment.  If this does go to the big screen hopefully she'll stay true to all the characters and make sure they're cast exactly like their descriptions in the book.

This book jumps around a lot, you actually feel like you're zooming around town with Corki but I think this was intentional.  Ms. Howard really wants you to feel what it's like in the life a personal assistant.  These employees feel gratification in pleasing their employers at no cost no matter how degrading the request.  I suggest that those thinking of going to L.A. or New York to be an assistant because they think it's glamorous to read this book.  You'll find out really fast that all that glitters isn't gold.  Good job Ms. Howard!
