Dear Ms. Willman (and other readers/reviewers),

It is my habit to check online reviews two or three times a year in hopes of keeping tabs on the thoughts of the reading public. I came across your review and immediately pulled a weather beaten copy of She's Gonna Blow from my office shelf and turned to pages 68 and 70. Indeed, in the first sentence of the third paragraph it reads, "I lived with my two younger sisters..."

You, my observant reader, have managed to catch an editorial oversight (also referred to as "an error") which up until this time has managed to slip by the eyes of countless editors and myself.

Ms. Willman, the authenticity of my personal character and writing is of utmost importance to me as a writer and woman. My passion for communicating via spoken and written words was, is, and forever will be, built upon a core foundation of authenticity and truth...even when revealing it is personally painful or less than flattering.

I want to assure you, as well as the hundreds, even thousands, of men and women who may read these review pages, that the personal stories I reveal in my books are far from "manufactured sad scenarios," being used in a manipulative attempt to prove something.

No, Ms. Willman, I have no need to make up stories for my real life is filled to overflowing with twists and turns, losses and gains, heartache and redemption. Rest assured, save for the typographical error you found, the story you call into question was indeed true--as were dozen others. I did lose my older sisters at a very young age. I did watch them leave my foster parents home without me. I did (still do on many occassions) mourn their absence. Their leaving had a profound effect upon my heart. I reveal and peel away these places of my heart and life in order to let other women--other mothers, know that they are not alone. No matter how hard that may be to believe.

Please know I have contacted my publishing house and the typographical error will be corrected as soon as possible. I trust you will accept my response with the same measure of grace by which it was offered. Should you wish to contact me, please feel free to email from my web site, juliebarnhill.com.


Warmly,
Julie Ann Barnhill
