Possibly what keeps Barth Tarkington from going the way of the Magnificent Ambersons, completely rolled over and forgotten by history, is that this novel is on the Modern Library's top 100 list of books to read.  A quick look at the imdb movie database shows that a number of his works were made into films and starred such pantheons of the golden age of movies as Orsen Welles and Rudolf Valentino.  An amazon check shows that he won the Pulitzer Prize--twice!  As I was sick in bed without a book of interest at hand Tarkington was perfect: his was a free ebook easily downloaded. It is a regrettable that this towering novelist of another time has become rather obscure today.
The Magnificent Ambersons excels in highlighting a rapidly changing time in American history: dress, language, style,  breeding, importance, aristocracy and more all went through transformation as cities grew, fortunes were made and lost and life changed.  These changes, seen and experienced by the author, an Indianapolis resident his entire life, are narrated from the living room (or parlor, or "reception" room) outwards.  In the case of the Amberson family, the city they helped grow now thrives beyond them and their faltering fortune can't maintain the family as it swirls into obscurity and is surpassed by the modern motor car and sooty grime that defines the city.  A touching scene occurs when the proud grandfather, stooped and aged, sits at his desk in his once impressive mansion going over ledger books to a gaslight while the boarding houses all around it have electric lights, and cars speed past the old stables where his rather now shabby carriage sits. Turmoil, Tarkington's previous novel that serves as a prequel to The Magnificent Ambersons, describes a midwestern city scene that could easily find a place here:

 	And then, as the car drove on, the chimneys and stacks of factories
came swimming up into view like miles of steamers advancing abreast,
every funnel with its vast plume, savage and black, sweeping to the
horizon, dripping wealth and dirt and suffocation over league on
league already rich and vile with grime.

The book's center is the grandson George Amberson Minafer, who grows up spoiled, proud, selfish and limited, and views those around him as riffraff.  His goal to "be" rather than "do" prepares him for nothing, and his world view works to destroy him and undue his mother's last chance at happiness.   The town in earlier years always wanted to see him have his "come uppance", (to get what was coming to him), and it comes casually, slowly, as his family is forgotten to poverty, and his own self importance is  eventually shared by no one.  That he is only 24 when this occurs, and has nothing to combat it but frayed pride, is pathetic. Amberson regrets that the new section of the town cemetery doesn't take into account that the older section holds the most important names, and views his uncle's entry into Congress for its ability to make family members ambassadors, allowing for easier family travel abroad.  He takes all as his due, and offers little but arrogance in return. In the hands of a lesser writer George might be unbelievable or a caricature, but Tarkington makes him real, and George's failure to see beyond his own point of view is tragic.
The book's only weakness is its ending.  Those who can help him do so only when his mother "speaks" to them during a seance, and its wraps up the novel too quickly.  George has by this time shown some redemption, but his lifelong obstinence is still intact, and his faltering attempts at apologies should not hide that the kindness being shown him is not due so much to a light at long last glowing in his soul, but rather the pity being shown by others whose character is far surpasses his own.        

	
