This was a very good analysis of the later Roman Empire and it's 'fall'...yes fall....not transformation!!  

Before reading Ward-Perkins' slim text [less than 200 pages](it could have been twice the size and still too short)  I had not realized the revisionists, postmodernists, post-structuralists, relativists [ists, ists, ists...ahhhhhh!!!!!], had made their way into this field...but it hasn't surprised me.  Yet, rumors, indirect and vague, have been surfacing about the elevation of Germanic Europe over, at least, the last 10 to 15 years.  

Well, back to the book.  Ward-Perkins looks at the material aspects of civilization (another word he rescues from the 'accommodators') such as pottery, economics, writing, trade, etc.  Items/things that may be measured, weighed, tested...the quantifiable in our lives and the lives of a complex society and the things it makes.  The book and its analyses were very good and I would higly recommend it as a brilliant respite from the metaphysics of the revisionists and their tortured logic (if you want to think of their rationalisations as such).  

There is only one negative that weaken's the author's thesis and that is he has been too 'open' to the position(s) of the 'Other'.  One of the hallmarks of a strong and compelling thesis is a bold and provocative stance on an issue.  It makes for a more compelling and thought-provoking read.  Ward-Perkins is here rather weak...most especially in his final chapter (All for The Best In The Best Of All Possible Worlds?).  Here he wants to argue, to a greater or lesser extent, both sides.  When, in point of fact, he needs, in his conclusion, to take the revisionists out behind the woodshed for a mighty good thrashing.  It was an interesting chapter but too watered down...too nice...too understanding.  

The book's language and style are accessible and the pace set by the author is brisk, smooth, and knits together, well, the disparate threads of late antiquity (especially in the Western Empire).  

Highly recommended.  Misses out on a 5th star because he is too accommodating of the revisionists. 
