"Tao: The Watercourse Way" is the last book written by Alan Watts. It was one of his best. Though it is specifically about Contemplative Taoism it contains a distillation of wisdom garnered from a lifetime of learning about the nature of reality from many different traditions. Wisdom has no boundaries. This book deserves a place in the smallest of personal libraries. The Tao is the fundamental first-cause behind all of the ways of the Chineese masters of old. The Way of ways, the pathless path, the watercourse way. The Tao is like a river, a river of nonduality. A great river banked by duality, yin and yang. Watts states that Taoism is neither a religion nor a philosophy though it has aspects of both. Taoism is about living a balanced life. Even Confucianism has an element of Taoism about it so fundamental is the way of the Tao to the Chineese. Taoism is a way of life that may appeal to you if you are tired of vacillating between such vexing polarites as absolute doubt and absolute certainty. The Watercourse Way is a way of moderation in all things. A way of life that goes with the flow of natural and supernatural forces. The Way of Wisdom. Watts was my kind of Taoist. 

In the chapter on "Te-Virtuality" Watts offers us an overview of the contemplative way of life. A life of freedom from constraints and extremes. Watts had come a long way from the stuffy England of his youth. He had found an unforced way of living life that agreed with him. An artful way of being true to himself by living naturally; of being free to scream, or cry, or most especially to laugh, whatever is appropriate to the flow of the moment.  

In the "Wu-wei" chapter Watts reminds us of the words of Lao-Tzu concerning wu-wei: "The Tao does nothing, and yet nothing is left undone". Wu-wei, the principle of "nonaction" is not inactivity. Wu-wei is the right action of letting nature take its course. A minimalist way of finesse rather than force. A way to roll with the punch, to swim with the tide, to go with the flow. Thus wu-wei is not so much the absence of effort as it is right effort, effort used wisely, such as in the art of Judo. Wu-wei is poetry in motion. Balance is not static.

The chapter on the "Yin-Yang Polarity" describes the fundamental principle of Taoism. The eternal Tao is an underlying unity which manifests itself as a duality of seeming opposites that ebb and flow in and out of each other in an ordered manner. The Tao creates yin and yang; male and female, day and night, positive and negative, subject and object, self and other. Within each opposite is the seed of its seeming opposite, or opposite non-opposite. No yin or yang is pure. Only Tao is pure. Only source never changes. To make an ideal of any extreme is to disrupt the natural give and take of the interplay between yin and yang, the dance of life. Day dissolves into night dissolves into day... Nature is whole. A rope has two ends but is a whole rope. We can only know the things of duality in contrast to their opposite. We have a tendency to put too much emphasis on the apparent polarities around us and not enough on the underlying unity. Lao-Tzu: "The Tao that can be decribed is not the eternal Tao". Nonduality, not two, not yin and yang, is an ineffable whole without a second. We can never know nonduality, but we can experience it. Thus dogma is secondary to experience where the Tao is concerned. I AM THAT I AM. Duality is a different matter. We can know yin from yang. Good from bad for one without the other is meaningless. Day without night is a shadow. Life without death is dead. Such is the nature of duality and nonduality, of yin and yang and the Tao. Such is the nature of Nature.    

Watts chapter on the "Chineese Written Language" is one of the most eye openning essays about the Oriental mind I have ever read. The Chineese language is written in ideograms, pictures. Think of a DO NOT ENTER pictogram, a circle with a diagonal slash, a type of ideogram. It tells you what to do or not do, but not why. The why is part of a larger context, a bigger picture. Such is the nature of the Chineese language. Simple yet complex. Pictures within pictures. Combine this with trying to write about the unwriteable nature of nonduality, the Tao, and the pedantics of Kant can seem rather simple at times. The Tao that can be described is not the eternal Tao. I AM INDESCRIBABLE. 

In Watt's "Prolegomena" to "Tao: The Watercourse Way" he discusses the inherent problems of pure communication where Eastern wisdom is concerned. Watts, ever the gentleman, points out his strengths and his weaknesses for such an effort. Watts forthrightness and integrity is apparent. He readily admits that his first priority in his translation of Chineese to English, he includes the translations of others with credits,  is to the 'spirit' as opposed to the 'letter' of what the old masters had to say. A bias I can live with. Watts is great at painting pictures with words in a most entertaining and enlightening way. He speaks to us from his heart. I am truly sorry that this was his last book. He passed away before he could complete it. His good friend Tai Chi Master Chungliang Al Huang did a yeoman's job of finishing and then bringing Watt's "Tao: The Watercourse Way" to print. Wisdom leaps off every page. At times it takes quantum leaps. A picture can indeed be worth a thousand words.
