Of all the Laura Ingalls Wilder "Little House" books, FARMER BOY is, hands down, my very favorite.  

The book covers a portion of the boyhood of Almanzo Wilder, who was to grow up to become Laura's husband.  Almanzo grew up on a thriving, successful farm in New York state.  Almanzo's father was especially known and respected for raising top-quality horses.  Almanzo's mother had her own home business ventures and was known for making top-quality butter, fetching top dollar, to be served in some of the finest restaurants in New York City.    

I could probably write a book about this book and why I love it so much.  Through the examples of the Wilder family, its strengths and limitations, the author puts forth some enduring lessons about hard work, mutual respect, the value of time and money, hope... and more.  FARMER BOY stands out among the other "Little House" books because: a) it is about Almanzo, long before he ever met Laura, ten years his junior (so Laura was not even born yet at the time this book starts its story); and b) the Wilder family, like the Ingalls family, faced hardships, but not to the relentless and ridiculous level that the Ingalls family seemed to do so, leaving more room to delineate normal, day-to-day life, which itself was incredibly rich and interesting. 

During the time that Laura, many miles away, was an infant and young child, Almanzo was growing up in New York, developing his love of horses and skill in working with them.  During the time he was a young man venturing out west, Laura herself was developing her love of horses and skill in riding them.  That they were both "horse lovers" provided a lovely and important common ground later when they met, courted and married.

Almanzo James Wilder was born February 13, 1857 and died on October 23, 1949, at the age of 92. Laura Elizabeth Ingalls was born on February 7, 1867 and died on February 10, 1957, at age 90. They were married on August 25, 1885.  These details mean that Almanzo was very much alive in 1933 when FARMER BOY was published, and presumably, very much available as a resource for his wife Laura, the author.  To me, that is precious and relevant, for it attests to longevity (both of their marriage and their lives) and to the presumption of authenticity regarding this wonderful book.  Highly recommended!    

