Being a vacationer who has been on numerous cruises, this book recommendation looked like a certain fit...  Devils On The Deep Blue Sea by Kristoffer A. Garin.  He does a very good job in revealing how the cruise industry works, and the forces that have shaped it along the way. 

The story starts in the late 1950's, when the cruise industry was really nothing more than a way to transport passengers from one location to another.  The rich often had a lavish experience, while the "steerage" passengers were cramped and confined to the lower decks with restrictions on where they could go and what they could do.  But in both cases, it was still a case of traveling from point A to point B.  The airline industry quickly made cruise ships obsolete for rapid travel, and the shipping lines were becoming a footnote in history.  But a few people thought that cruising could become a destination in itself, a way to vacation, see other lands, and then return to where you started.  But the appeal had to be broad, and the luxuries of first class had to extend to all the passengers.  Thru visionaries, financial risks, and mergers, what we have today is a $13 billion dollar industry that is truly global in numerous aspects.  But behind the glitter and glamour, there are some less appealing items of interest...

Garin talks about how the cruise industry is largely staffed by impoverished workers from third-world nations who sign on for low base wages and whatever tips come from passengers.  To many of us, these base wages wouldn't even support poverty, but they are considerable in the countries where the workers come from.  The hours and rules aboard ship are harsh, with 12 to 16 hour days with little time off the norm.  The industry also pays little in the way of taxes due to their ship registration being out of country to take advantage of international treaties preventing retaliatory fees.  The laws and rights of the United States are not always in play either, as the ship is actually foreign territory.  And if that's not enough, many of the tourist destinations are unable to get additional fees from the industry to support their infrastructure, as the industry will threaten to pull out of the port and destroy their tourism.  It can be capitalism at its worst...

Personally, this book was better than I expected.  I thought it was going to be a muck-raking, "boycott cruises" diatribe, and one that I wouldn't necessarily agree with.  But the balance between the story of the cruise lines and the less-savory parts of the industry was just about right.  And even the "expose" part wasn't hypercritical.  I came away understanding  the abuses, but (in many cases) understanding both sides of the issues.  And really, it's not much different than what most other industries would do in the same circumstances...

Yes, I'm still going to go on cruises, and I'll still enjoy them.  But I'll be even more considerate of the staff that makes it all work, and more in awe of what it takes to pull off the experience, week after week after week..
