I just got the book 3 days ago.  I am only on day three, but the information in this book is eye opening.  Jillian covers everything from hormones and metabolism, supplements like hoodia, even the master cleanse.

I saw the review below and can't help but wonder if that person actually read the book.  There ARE in fact 3 separate 30 day menu plans.  One for each oxidizer type (slow, balanced, and fast).  For that reason, 1 plan will ask for non-fat cottage cheese and another will ask for low fat.  Those two ingredients are not on the same meal plan and they are also on separate grocery lists (of which there are 3, one for fast, balanced, and slow).

Jillian goes on to explain that the recipes make up to 10 - 12 servings for the following reasons: Most women don't want to make separate meals for their families.  Also, the book allots each reader with and individualized calorie allowance.  As some of the recipes are very low calorie, some people doing the plan will require up to 5 servings of each recipe.  Last, if you are like me, always on the run and finding it difficult to cook every night this book will solve your problem.  This way you will have healthy food prepared when you are pressed for time.  All that said, she specifically mentions in the book that if you want to make less food you can simply cut the ingredients in half and the meal will still come out perfectly making half the servings.

With regard to the workouts: There are over 100 separate exercises in the book and less then 10 of them require gym equipment.  The workouts seem predominantly designed to utilize body weight exercises (no gym required).  

The workouts do seem tough, that is for sure.  However, you can easily modify the exercises to accomodate your fitness level.  Jillian offers over 8 variations of plank exercise, 11 different variations of lunges, 8 variations of push ups, and 8 variations of squats just to name a few.   For those that don't have a treadmill accessible she offers up over 10 different types of cardio intervals that require no equipment like mountain climbers, butt kicks, squat jacks etc. 

As for not being able to tackle weeks 3 and 4 of the workouts on day 1, I think that is the whole point.  In order to lose weight quickly you must progress your fitness level quickly.  For example, the contestants on Biggest Loser couldn't walk around the block on day 1 and by day 7 she seems to have them running miles and doing push ups.  This is why she instructs you to follow the plan religiously.  I assume that by doing the workouts from week 1 and week 2 you will be ready to take on weeks 3 and 4, hence the books promise of delivering "the best shape of your life".

I love Jillian.  I have been a fan of hers sine season one of Biggest Loser.  I listen to her radio show religiously and trust her advice.  I use her dvd's and have gotten amazing results.  I love this book so far and although it's no walk in the park, I welcome the challenge. 
