Garlow and Jones soundly refute the charge that the church was and is antisex. But then again, this is an age-old trumped-up charge, going back to ancient pagan Rome, and still leveled against those who do not agree with the hedonistic and libertinistic practices of the accusers. The same holds for those who accuse the church of being sexist or misogynist (anti-woman), as the Da Vinci Code does. It is routine for feminists to call anyone sexist or misogynist who has the temerity to disagree with their ideology or their policies.

Garlow and Jones show that there was no such thing as a matriarchial society. They also expose the irony of the fact that the Da Vinci Code presents the Gnostic writings in a positive light even though Gnostic writings contain obvious misogyny! 

Garlow and Jones elaborate on the persecution of witches. It turns out that most instances of such persecution were instigated by secular rather than religious authorities. What's more, witch-baiting is a great exaggeration. The number of victims was quite small--perhaps 50,000 witches executed over a long period of time, certainly not millions. What Garlow and Jones do not mention is the fact that the persecution of others by the Christian church is dwarfed by the persecution of others by atheists. The hundreds of thousands of victims sent to the guillotine by the Jacobins during the French Revolution and the tens of millions of innocent people murdered by the atheistic Communists come to mind. 

A major shortcoming of Garlow and Jones' book is his failure to contextualize the DaVinci Code trash as a manifestation of overt anti-Christian bigotry--yes, a form of bigotry that would never be applied to any other religion. After all, the DaVinci Code (yes, I have read the book) not only attacks the Christian faith as an error, but accuses the church of being a deliberate conspiracy that is attempting to conceal a fraud. The fact that it is admittedly fictional does not change the fact of this bigotry. If Hollywood made a fictional film accusing the Prophet Mohammed of being a fraud and concocting a conspiracy to hide the true origins of Islam, it would be widely denounced as Islamophobic bigotry. Were Hollywood to make a film that positively portrays the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, even as fiction, it would be universally condemned as anti-Semitic. The real lesson of the DaVinci Code that needs to be stressed by Garlow, Jones, and others is the fact that anti-Christian bigotry is now just about the only acceptable form of bigotry, and that this is an ominous portent for the future. Christians, wake up!
