Here stands a girl named Lori, 11 years old with a disease called anorexia. Her mother eats on diets; here friends eat on diets; and every girl at her school are on diets except for her. Her mother reads all of these books on diets and is always telling her, "Save the dessert for your father and brother. You don't need all of this food." And of course this poor little girl kept wondering why. A little while later her family went over to some relative's house to have nice meal with them. Lori sat next to her cousin Kate. Lori thought Kate's legs were so skinny and wondered how Kate kept her nice figure. Then Lori looked down at her legs; she thought, boy they look humongous. They are so wide and fat. Then she looked how much food Kate took on her plate; there was barely anything. Lori then she looked at hers; there was so much. After that Lori started not eating breakfast and saying that she didn't feel like eating. It started growing in to a bigger deal with her parents about her not eating. Lori had lost so much weight over the past couple months, so her mother started getting concerned so she took Lori to the doctor. She had lost at least two pounds in just a week or two. After telling the doctor that she wasn't eating breakfast and starting not to eat much of anything, he wanted to see her the next week. When Lori came in the next week she had lost even more weight. That's when Lori's doctor said she needed to talk to a counselor about what was going on. And boy, Lori wasn't happy about that. The first day of going to see her new consoler was weird. He asked her to draw a picture of herself and how she thinks she looks and then to draw another picture what she wants to look like. Lori drew a stick figure. Then after she drew those pictures Lori played chess with her counselor. Just plain old chess. Lori started buying diet books and reading how many calories were in food because she thought she was so fat. Then she started doing laps in the night to burn calories and then foot lifts. After a couple of weeks Lori's family, doctor and counselor thought it would be best if she was to be hospitalized. She had to be watched when eating her food and had to eat 75% of her food, otherwise she would have to have a tube down her throat to feed her if she didn't. She had her life at a risk. Would Maria be in the hospital the rest of her life? Would she start eating and get out of the hospital and recover? Or would she die in the hospital because she wouldn't eat anything? If you want to know read the book and find out!
I thought the authors writing style was okay. It was in a journal form and the book showed how much she was going through. She kept explaining how she was feeling in the moment. But one thing was that the book wasn't very descriptive. It would tell some things descriptively but not that many. 
  I really enjoyed reading this book. It was so attaching. You wanted to know what was going to happen next. The chapters aren't very long so you can read quite a bit in just a half hour. I really recommend reading this book. It teaches you a lesson that being thin isn't that good, and going on diets can be dangerous. I hope you read this book
