Many people remember the battle of Midway as the turning point of the war in the Pacific due to the sinking of four Japanese aircraft carriers, and rightly so.  But would the American success at Midway been possible without the heroic actions of their torpedo squadrons?  Probably not.  In this eye-opening account of the battle, author Alvin Kernan sheds much new light on these intrepid airmen who, flying obsoloete aircraft and using defective torpedoes, cleared the way for the SBD Dauntlesses to deliver the crushing blows on the Japanese carriers.

After sighting the enemy carriers, the three American flattops began launching their torpedo bombers, dive bombers, and fighters in the hopes of making a coordinated attack on the Japanese fleet.  However, while en route to the target, almost all of the squadrons became separated and the USS Hornet's contingent of fighters and dive bombers never even made it to the Japanese fleet. Its aircraft either returned to the carrier or ditched in the sea.  Meanwhile, ,the planes from USS Yorktown and USS Enterprise were not able to coordinate their attacks.  Thus, the torpedo planes attacked without fighter protection.

These planes were thrown into a virtual meat grinder of anti aircraft fire and pursuit from Japanese fighters.  Out of a compliment of 51 planes, 44 were shot down.  One man, Ensign George Gay, survived from Torpedo squadron 8.  Not a single American torpedo hit the Japanese fleet.  However, this sacrifice was not in vain, for a few minutes later, the SBDs found the Japanese and in the span of a few minutes sent three Japanese carriers to the bottom.  The fourth followed later in the day.

The author brings up some interesting points in the book.  For example, he mentions the confusing flight plan of the Hornet's commander Ring, who, for some reason, chose to fly a course which would take him well north of the Japanese fleet.  He then failed to write an after action report upon returning to the Hornet.  The author also describes the inferiority of the American aircraft, specifically, there extremely limited range which, in the end, caused the American fighters to turn back.  Also, the fighters that did make it to the Japanese fleet never flew down to help out the lumbering Devastators.  In all intents and purposes, the SBDs happened to end up in the right place at precisely the right time.  If they had not, the battle could have turned out much differently.

This is a fascinating book.  I've read several books about the battle of Midway, but none have went into the depth of exploring the destruction of the torpedo planes as this one does.  The writer, a former member of the Enterprise's air group, describes the battle as only a true eyewitness could.  He raises some alarming quetions which I had never thought about before reading this book.  Although the book itself is somewhat short, it does a masterful job of covering the plight of the torpedo planes.

I highly recommend this fine book.  If you've read anything previously about the battle of Midway, you must read this book.  It sheds some new light on the heroic sacrifice of the American torpedo squadrons and how their actions paved the way for the American victory
