I bought "Alliances" thinking it was the first in the new SG-1 series, since according to the product details, this book was published January 2006, prior to the other novels. However, the book itself is stamped with #8... and in the back are ads for the first seven books. Much to my relief, however, the book stood alone -- it did not matter that I hadn't read the rest of the series, it was still completely enjoyable.

For anyone wanting to read them in order:
#1. "Trial By Fire" by Sabine C. Bauer
#2. "Sacrifice Moon" by Julie Fortune
#3. "A Matter of Honor" (part 1 of 2) by Sally Mslcolm
#4. "City of the Gods" by Sonny Whitelaw
#5. "The Cost of Honor" (part 2 of 2) by Sally Malcolm
#6. "Siren Song" by Holly Scott and Jaimie Duncan
#7. "Survival of the Fittest" by Sabine C. Bauer
#8. "Alliances" by Karen Miller

The novel started out slow, and I found the initial plot setup rather contrived. The event that sets everything else in motion did not seem realistic to me. The characters were out of character, so to speak, and there were some inconsistencies. But, I realize that the author needed some way to have it necessary for SG-1 to be out of the way for a while.

In the beginning, there were many little things that drove me crazy... Like Jack calling Daniel's artifacts "doodads" *seven* times just in the first three pages. Or Daniel saying that Sam was "making love to the naquadah generator" with Jack soon confirming that she "was indeed making love to the naquadah generator"... a cute expression, except that they gave no indications that this was just a figure of speech, and Jack's saying, "No accounting for taste..." made it seem disturbingly literal. Plus, there were a few places where things contradicted themselves, usually on the same page or within a few pages, but these were mild and not critical issues. 

Because of the uneven beginning, I was expecting to have to endure the rest of the novel, but happily, once the Tok'ra got involved, the plot started picking up. And when the undercover mission began, I was seriously hooked. I read the entire novel in about three hours! The author did an excellent job of capturing the characters' personalities, mannerisms, and interactions with each other. The storyline had plenty of variety to keep things interesting, with enough peace in-between disasters for you to catch your breath.

It is obvious that the book was written by a British author, even though she took pains to Americanize it. Every so often, a strange expression would appear, a word I'd never heard of, or a strangely spelled word. It happens often enough to remind you of the book's orgin, but the story itself is good enough that it shouldn't distract too much.

Overall, I was very pleased with the book. *Much* better than the original Stargate SG-1 novel by Ashley McConnell. I'm glad they decided to start over and release a new series! I give Four Stars only because of the trouble in the beginning, otherwise it's great! I am now looking forward to ordering the rest of the series
