This is a detailed and uneven biography of an interesting military leader who became a celebrity. The narrative is rich in detail and attempts to both tell Patton's life story in addition to providing an analysis of his personality, leadership style, and provide insight into some of Patton's very nasty prejudices. The verdict appears to be that Patton was an excellent Battle field tactical commander as well as one of the first to recognize the value of the tank and its impact on the battle field. But he had a hard time when it came to understanding the strategy of the larger campaign and being a team player. His anti British, anti Jewish, and anti Russian prejudice impacted his disastrous attempt to govern and de-Nazify Bavaria after the war. And Hirshson points out that the effects of Patton's "kill the bastard" speeches was disastrous leading to as many as five atrocities including the murder of civilians. And Patton's famous slapping of the soldiers in the field hospital is well explained from all points of view. So why did Eisenhower but up with Patton? Simply because he won! And victory in total war was more important than style points.
	I found the early pages of the book most entertaining and interesting as they cover Patton growing up in San Gabriel Valley in Southern California. His father ran for Senate as a Democrat and Patton then married into a rich Conservative (very right wing) family and adopted their views and prejudices as he got older.
	This is not a great book. For a really great book turn, for example, to William Manchester's "American Caesar". American Caesar  demonstrates that Manchester is a most extraordinary writer. Hirshson is not a very good writer. But I do think Hirshson has a lot to offer in his controversial very detailed biography of General Patton. (From reading other reviews posted on Amazon I wonder if I read the same book as many others. Are so many so desperate for a hero without flaws?) I'm glad I never had to serve under someone like the REAL Patton when I was stationed with 14th Armored Cavalry in Germany. Decide for yourself and check this one out.
