From Acupuncture Today, July, 2004, Volume 05, Issue 07

By Gregg St. Clair, LAc

Most of us practicing acupuncture and Oriental medicine are excited about what we do. Helping others, performing acupuncture, using herbs, working with the mind, body and spirit, and giving hope are some of the reasons we get into the profession. Unfortunately, we are not always the greatest bunch when it comes to what goes along with all of these - running a business. In fact, many choose Oriental medicine as a change in careers to get away from the business world. Once we start, we are eager to begin practicing all we've learned, not to waste energy worrying about which font to use for our first ad.

The truth is, no patients in the waiting room means just that - no patients in the treatment room. Promoting ourselves and what we do is an inescapable part of our career. For me, building a practice and uncovering some new opportunity has unexpectedly become almost as exciting as a successful breakthrough with a difficult case. But even with a whole class on practice management and some seminars, I still felt as if I was making it all up as I went along.

The recently published Points for Profit helps remedy that. It is the first book of its kind to create such a complete picture of running a practice. I was lucky enough to study practice management with one of the authors, Marilyn Allen. Many of the ideas in the book were touched on in class. I took notes, there were handouts and I felt ready, but quite honestly, once I got out into practice, it was all rather vague. To see all of these concepts down in writing to use at my leisure over and again made them all very concrete.

Authored by three professionals, Points for Profit gives us a multiangled perspective of how to run a successful business. Honora Lee Wolfe is an experienced acupuncturist, the author of many books, and the co-founder and marketing director of Blue Poppy. Marilyn Allen teaches practice management, is the marketing director of the American Acupuncture Council and editor of Acupuncture Today. Eric Strand has a marketing and management background that he is applying to a growing clinical practice. These three perspectives are blended throughout the book, creating a complete guide useful not only for the beginning practitioner, but the seasoned veteran, as well.

And when I say complete, I mean complete! The book includes practical ideas for all aspects of running a business, from starting up to insurance billing and marketing. Included are detailed analyses and recommendations for business basics, setting goals, different business models, writing a business plan, creating a budget, setting fees, record keeping, dealing with staff, workers' compensation, PI, no-fault, legal advice, working with partners, working in Western medical settings, and specialization, to name a few. And yes, there is even everything you need to know about HIPAA.

One thing I like best about the book is that it is organized so that just scanning through it is informative and inspirational. It is rare that someone would read a book like this straight through from cover to cover, as it is riddled throughout are points to ponder, power points, quotations, bold type, and useful links. At the end of every chapter is a review that summarizes the main concepts. Resources include Web sites for doing taxes, legal guides, finding jobs and marketing, all the way to becoming an entrepreneur. What more could you ask for? It even comes with a CD-ROM with 100 pages of downloadable forms, letters and worksheets.

Points for Profit should be in every practitioner's hands before they graduate school. It sets the standard for professional practice management and will probably become the standard textbook for all such classes. However, I feel the book can benefit any practitioner. The resources, the legal advice and HIPAA are just some reasons, but ideas for different business models, running a clinic, marketing, avoiding burnout and managing a practice ready to burst at the seams makes it invaluable.

I found the book inspirational and I know you will too. It came for me at a time when I was revamping my office procedures and forms, and I became excited about what I thought was going to be a tedious undertaking. The book has everything you need to know about starting a practice or bringing your current practice to another level. Success, however, is about more than making money. Points for Profit sets a standard for success on every level.

Mr. St. Clair's rating: 10 out of 1
