  Anthony Trollope is the least know of the great Victorian
novelist. His series of books on the social life of the Church of England clerics in the Barsetshire novels and his keen examination of British parliamentry live in the Palliser books are works of genius.
  In the Way We Live Now Trollope examines in microscopic detail the world of Victorian high finance. His chief character is a roguish foreigner Melmotte who makes the baddies at Enron look like schoolboys in duplicity and mendacious dealings. Melmotte is one of the great characters of British fiction and his novel deserves wider readership!
  Along the way in this massive three-decker we meet Lady Carbury the literary lady seeking mates for her prodigal son
Felix (a thoroughly detestable character!) and her sweet daugher Hettie who is torn between two lovers-her cousin Roger and her
younger swain Paul Montague. Montague has had a long affair with the dashing and beautiful American Mrs. Hurtle. She shows up in the long tale Trollope tells adding to our reading enjoyment to say nothing of creating all kinds of lovemaking complications!
  Trollope who enjoys romantic triangles also tells the tale of Marie Melmotte who is pursued by the wretched Fexlix Carbury and 
Lord Longstaff a ninny without the sign of a brain!
   We also meet Ruby Ruggles who is in love with Felix Carbury while her country lover John Crumb seeks to win the fair Ruby and save her from the clutches of Felix. 
   The modern reader may find the complicated details of the business being conducted somewhat tedious and difficult to understand. The work if written today would have been edited.
As the book was released in serial form it often is repetitious.
Trollope is in no hurry to tell his interesting, complicated survey of Great Britain at the zenith of Empire.
  Trollope's tale resonates today in our materialistic society where money and power reign.
  He has a plain style that draws the reader into turning to the next page to find out what will happen. Trollope has been a good friend of mine for many years. I have never read anything by him which has failed to interest me. Mr. Trollope could tell a story, keep us interested in the characters and draw a vivid portrait of a society in social flux.
   This books is representative of Anthony Trollope at the height of his considerable powers. Well recommended
