John Grisham has quite a reputation as being a very prolific author.  Being the best selling author the 90's means you've got quite a reputation.  So I wanted to see what all the fuss was about and I picked up "A Time to Kill."  Needless to say it was a good book, but there are a few moments where it glares.  As it is Grisham's first book (and believe me, in some areas it shows), I'd expect a lack of substance.  Surprisingly, there's substance.  But there are times when the book really rambles on for a very long time.

When a ten year old black girl gets raped by two drunken high racists white men, the father is outraged and decides to take justice into his own hands.  So he gets a hold of an assault rifle and guns the two rapists down.  Now Carl Lee Haily is on trial for vigilant justice, and the whole world is watching.  The lawyer to defend Carl Lee is a young man named Jake Brigance.  

A reoccuring theme in the book seems to be the question, "What if it were your daughter?"  It posses a pretty thought provoking question, and whatever you decide on isn't wrong.  It's your interpretation.  The book touches on a lot of touchy areas.  Not just rape, vigilante justice, and the court systems, but it also touches on racism as well.  If you're easily offended by racism, this book is not for you.  It IS uncensored, but a lot of people tend to forget it's fiction, and doesn't express the authors true beliefs (any time an author touches race they're immediately labeled racist, you can usually find these accusations in one star reviews).  There are moments where it is offensive.  Even more so, the KKK plays a huge portion in the book.  There are a lot of common stereotypes, but it's nothing to get worked up about.  Again, it's fiction. 

Second, the book really does ramble from time to time.  Grisham himself even admitted it in his notes.  The book is fantastic, the story even better.  The problem is... there's too much mumbo jumbo and not enough story.  Also, as it nears the end, a lot of stuff happens that either doesn't make much sense, or is totally unbelievable.  

Grisham has a good story, but his characters are also a little flawed.  Very stereotypical in their roles.  Jake Brigance is the dashing hero, Carl Lee Haily the man in distress.  There's even one character he sort of forgets about.  In fact, he forgot about the character so much he never made it into any one page of the last two-hundred.  And there was no end to his story.  

So yes, it's a good book.  However, it does ramble.  It's a great story, perhaps one of the best works of fiction I've read in a long time.  Some characters are cliched, and if race-relations aren't your thing... this book isn't for you.  I'm not offended by the book (I am an African-American), but I seem to notice others are.  

Great story.  Rambles a bit from time to time, but overall, a good story.  One where you can get to end, disagree (or agree) and still say to yourself it wasn't bad.  It's definitely worth the time, despite the fact that it could be a little shorter. 
