I would first like to state that I am not a member of the Mormon church, however, I have studied western US history and am quite familiar with the church and its beliefs. That said, it would seem that there is some venting going on in the review section!
From what I can gather there are a few "anti-mormons" out to besmudge the reputation of a great and God-fearing man, and quite a few members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who are trying to strike back. May I remind you that this is a book review, not a religion review?
Ok, so my review of this book.  I found it to be, as many others have, a simple and delightful read outlining what Mr. Hinckley believes to be the virtues most lacking in society today.  I have to agree with Mr. Hinckley in that those virtues are sorely needed in our world.  I did not feel that it was PR fodder or that it is to be respected more than a book by Rev. Billy Graham simply because of who wrote it.  I am sure that in some circles, most notably the Mormon community, it will be revered for that very reason, but I feel that the rest of Christendom should respect it as much as any book written by a good, upstanding, pious, self-respecting individual.  I also feel that people of other, non-Christian faiths or creeds should find most or all of this book to be applicable in daily-living.  
In response to some of the attacks on the character of Gordon Bitner Hinckley, his beliefs and actions, I will say this: I truly believe that Mr. Hinckley "stands for something," that which he believes.  I truly think that he believes that he speaks with God, I believe that sometimes I do as well.  As an example, I feel that when I pray with a concern about somethin in my life, I feel God telling me that all will be well, even if it is not the way I planned or would prefer.  As for the question of blacks and the priesthood, I have read accounts and interviews with Mr. Hinckley in which he expresses the anguish he felt in earlier days when this was the practice.  He tells of Spencer Kimball praying over and over for it to be time to include all.  I can see where this practice may have begun.  In early days of the Mormon church, members suffered great persecution.  They were accused of stirring up slaves against their "masters" on more than one occasion.  I feel it is possible that intense persecution could have led to this policy.  
As regards the financial accusations against Gordon Hinckley and the church he leads, he lives on a very modest stipend.  The money from the book would not be lining pockets already heavy from tithes collected from the members.  I would remind you of the great humanitarian aid contributions made by the church to the rest of the world.  I personally have met with many recipients of this aid including hurricaine refugees, families in poor countries who have been helped by the Benson Institue, and indiviuals down on their luck needing aid here in the USA.  None of these people were members of the church that so willingly helped them.  
I have met members of the Mormon church who I didn't like.  Some I REALLY didn't like, but in my work and studies I have met people of all faiths that were crass or rude to me or my associates.  I feel that many churches have great values and that when the members live by them they are wonderful people, caring and kind, and that there are members of all of those churches who do not and are difficult to be around.  I think that Gordon Hinckley understands that.  I also know that he knows that his book is about an ideal that would be hard to achieve as a society.  I don't think it would be possible for a man to live for 95 years and not know that there are unethical people out there, of all faiths and creeds, and that to expect everyone to live by the virtues he outlines in his book is unreasonable. 
