     This book is a work by Steve Martin known as a film actor, writer, comedian, producer, composer, and musician, and his first try of writing a fiction has let this work turn out to be a little bit bitter, but heart-warming story.  Once start reading, its readers will find themselves unable to put the book down until they finish and feel as if they themselves were characters being described in the story, since Steve Martin has succeeded in keeping every character, regardless gender or age, so lively and vividly that the events they are going through come to look like what happens in our everyday life.
     Mirabelle, a twenty-eight-year-old ordinary girl whose hobby is painting and feeding her cats, works in the glove department at Neiman's in L.A. to "[sell] things that nobody buys anymore" (1).  Her days are just to go back and forth from her small apartment to her workplace, plus meeting up with her forgetful-of-their-lonely-friend fellows only when they are in the mood, and showing up at the town's art galleries occasionally.  One day she gets to know a twenty-six-year-old guy, Jeremy, who gets interested in her.  But the feelings are not mutual, which leads Mirabelle to the next stage of her life where she meets a gentle millionaire named Mr. Ray Porter about twice her age.  The more frequently they meet, however, the deeper and bigger the gap between their feelings toward the other becomes; the sweet, vulnerable girl "gives him a little more of her that he cannot return" (77), while he has no idea what he is doing to her, just considering himself as a bachelor taking a course in intercourse 101 and trying to find out what love really is.  The two main characters struggle in finding who they are and how they should live their lives through their experience.  At the very end of the story, Jeremy appears again after an outstanding transformation and looks back on things in the past, which lets him realize how he was once immature in that he did not notice the nature beauty in Mirabelle... 
     The interesting part of this novel is that the author portrays men's and women's way of approaching love not only in a stereotyped way.  While Mr. Ray Porter keeps struggling to decipher the language of love till the end, Jeremy changes so dramatically that Mirabelle and he get into a relationship that they never imagined before.  The author describes men with wits as stupid creatures who think nothing but themselves, which might provoke male readers who believe they are never as silly as the guys in the book.  However, an introduction of another female character named Lisa who, "with all her power, never feels quite good enough for anything beyond her ability to create desire in men" (57), gives the readers the idea that there are this kind of foolish women besides innocent types like Mirabelle, making even what might have discredited men.       
     Love and the difference between men's and women's mind about it are something that attracts the readers' attention easily, because it is a topic everyone considers at least once in their life.  Steve Martin teaches us skillfully with the familiar topic that everyone has struggled with interaction with others, but they can learn something important from it and make it change into a chance to grow up.  Mirabelle's line at the very end of the story, "it's pain that changes out lives" (130), allows the readers to realize they can become stronger than before every time they face difficulty.  This book, shopgirl, is something you should keep on your bookshelf and open when you need the words of cheer for life.
