One reason the story is so powerful is because it is NOT an adrenaline-packed  full-bodied cry against social injustice.  It's a quiet, beautiful story, and these very qualities highlight why slavery was such an insidious institution.

Some reviewers claim the book is slow.  They are right, but let's examine the slowness in a little more detail.  First of all, the book is intended to be a realistic look at a fictional person (not a biography as reviews state), which forced the author to cut back on the "page-turner" syndrome we're affected with today.  (I'm going to sound preachy here, but most people don't lead perilous lives!!  We aren't secretly spies, we don't get lost on islands populated by enigmatic others, and we don't become pop stars on American Idol.)  

The book lacks whips, and bloodhounds, and chases across Southern swamps in the moonlight with a baby strapped to the hero's back.  

But that doesn't make the book any less of a voice against slavery.  

The sheer genius of the book is that it shows why slavery was an accepted part of life, and also shows why slavery is wrong.  Juanico (he's referred to by a child's name for almost the entire book) is well-fed, he's loved, he's taken care of.  He's a model slave leading a perfect life of servitude.  At the time people would point to slaves like Juanico and say slavery clearly wasn't evil because Juan was well-treated.  

As privileged readers, however, we know Juan doesn't like his permanent childlike state.  He wants to paint.  He wants it bad enough to steal from a man who has served as his father figure.  Bad enough to risk death.

That's what slavery is all about -- limiting someone's life based on the color of their skin.  By showing us Juan's pain Tervino shows that even the mildest form of slavery is wrong.  

Juan writes his memoir after Vasquez's death, but (if memory serves) we never know precisely how long after the death.  Personally I think the death is recent, and Juan is still processing the injustice of what happened to him.  Without modern therapy to help him touch his inner rage he might never rail against Diego Velasquez, who he loved.  

Other reviewers don't like how Velasquez "forgot" to free Juan.  To me that is one of the most realistic parts of the book.  Velasquez saw Juanico as a child, as a slave, for almost the entire book.  He never frees Juan because he doesn't see Juan as a man and an equal.  This mindset lasts right up to the point when he sees Juan's paintings.  At that moment their relationship shifts.  Diego suddenly sees Juan as an equal, and in that moment he frees Juan.

Several reviewers also seem to want some retribution; a better, more climatic ending.  I personally like the ending because it's realistic.  Juan comes to terms with what life has dealt him, maintaining the quiet dignity that makes him such a strong character.  
