Thomas Paine's The Age of Reason was the deciding factor in my decision to reject Christianity as a truthful world-view. I struggled for years, growing up in an evangelical church, with the idea of accepting the blood of a god-man as the ultimate resolution to humanity's shortcomings. I am so thankful for the enlightenment that Paine's work introduced to me. I couldn't personally affirm the Bible's accounts of prophecy and miracles were works of fiction until I read Age of Reason.

Paine writes in such a manner that is sometimes impetuous, but always guided by common sense. This is why Paine is so fun to read! While reading (more than twice) I would frequently slam the book down and exclaim "That's so true!". This work has survived the test of time. It continues to speak to fresh generations of free-thinkers. Age of Reason is an excellent introduction into other works of higher Biblical criticism, like those of Dr. Robert M. Price, who, if you haven't heard of him, is a brilliant scholar. 

If you loved Age of Reason, try The Incredible Shrinking Son of Man, by Dr. Price. It's far more researched, and provides further insight into many of Paine's arguments. 

My only hesitance to the Age of Reason is that I get the sense that Paine honestly believed that the church would crumble after he wrote his book. For example, he wrote "I have now gone through the Bible, as a man would go through a wood with an axe on his shoulder, and fell trees. Here they lie; and the priests, if they can, may replant them. They may, perhaps, stick them in the ground, but they will never make them grow." and "Certain as I am that when opinions are free, either in matters of government or religion, truth will finally and powerfully prevail."

Although I vehemently agree with Paine in both cases, and I hope that TRUTH will finally prevail, it seems the world is growing more in superstition and not less. Paine's success in instigating a revolution of government certainly encouraged him in attempting a revolution of religion. No free-thinker can blame him for hoping, but for being so certain I may have to. Although the time-period in which the book was written may excuse his overconfidence.  

Age of Reason is a great classic, and a work of genius. If you don't own this book you should.
