     To become disillusioned is "to realize that an idea is false or a belief is mistaken (Webster's dictionary)." Disillusionment exposes the unseen, the denied, and the seemingly impossible.  And it happens to everyone.  The adolescent realizes his dad isn't perfect as he walks in on him looking at porn.  The teenager who trusts his perfect girlfriend with all his heart finds out he's been cheated on.  Disillusionment can be devastating and life changing.  
     In the novel Inexcusable, author Chris Lynch powerfully tells the story of the main character Keir as he goes through a series of intense disappointments.  The majority of the book is laid out in chronological order, strategically interspersed with chapters describing the effects of one final disappointment.  
     Through using Keir's voice as the narrator, Lynch gives the reader a glimpse into Keir's psyche.  Keir seems to be trying to convince the reader as well as himself that he is a great kid who would "rather stay at home on a Saturday night to play a board game with his dad than go to a party (5)."  The reader sees Keir's life change and a shift takes place in Keir's character.  His "good guy" mantra continues, yet he begins to slowly creep into "bad guy" behavior.  He takes a few drugs, and he begins to drink a bit more with the rest of the football team at parties.  Keir fits right into the bad guy mold, yet he adamantly believes that he's still "good guy" and continues trying to convince the reader until the final page.  
     This typical adolescent internal conflict between who one wants to be and who one really is, is lived by Keir.  Just as many kids his age, he experiments with different things, not realizing what he is doing.  He takes small steps closer and closer to what he once thought of as inexcusable, and soon arrives there himself.
Over the course of this personal battle, we see Gigi Boudakian, one of the only semi-moral characters in the story, taking Keir under her wing.  Keir adores Gigi, and is boarder line obsessed with her.  They go to parties together and, after their graduation night filled with drinking and drugs, together drive three hours to see Keir's sisters at their college.  As a loyal friend, Gigi sticks by him as his view of life as he's known it is traumatically shattered by his sisters, who tell him that "Ray", their father, is an alcoholic and not exactly perfect.  After the horribly traumatic day, Keir misreads Gigi and in a date-rape scenario, has sex with her, thinking it has been consensual.   	
	Throughout the course of these revealing events, the construction of Keir's world has fallen to pile of sticks.  He has no idea who he really is.  He realizes at the end of the novel that reality has been contradicting his proclaimed self-concept and he is disillusioned.  Many adolescents go through these times of disillusionment, which have also been known as "rites of passage" or "coming of age" situations.  The readers find themselves questioning the guilt and remorse of Keir.  The book does not leave the reader with a happy ending, but rather leaves them with a cloudy image of right and wrong.  The ending of this novel is not substantially conclusive, but what can we expect from a novel dealing realistically with a world composed of so much gray matter?  
