Easterly's overarching plan for development is that no top-down plan will work for development. Here is his summary: "The success stories do not give any simple blueprint for imitation. Their main unifying theme is that all of them subjected their development searching to a market test....Using the market for feedback and accountability seems to be necessary for success." 

His primary targets are the development planners: Jeff Sachs ("The End of Poverty"), the World Bank, the IMF, and several Western governments. Easterly spends hundreds of pages showing that big plans have never worked, but that what does work is individuals searching for what works to solve specific poverty problems in specific contexts. He also shows that most development successes have been in the absence of significant aid flows. His arguments against the big plans are fairly convincing. Of course, some problems require broad efforts (disease eradication, for example); but broad efforts in development have largely come to little, and he gives myriad examples of people he calls "searchers" finding solutions to local poverty problems and expanding upon those.

He infuses his often scathing analysis with a fair amount of humor. Angolan rebel "Savimbi was to democracy what Paris Hilton is to chastity"; the principal benefit of the Vietnam War for the United States was the "explosion of Vietnamese restaurants in the United States." And his willingness to self-deprecate is gratifying (for example, recognizing the irony that he built his career at the World Bank and now continues his career critiquing it).

The chapters on Postmodern Imperialism and Invading the Poor [Countries] provide interesting suggestive analysis, but the topics therein are worthy of full books and seem marginal to this books central thesis. The book feels long, but Easterly is an enjoyable writer and makes many valuable points, including a number of specific suggestions for improving the aid industry. If you read Sachs's The End of Poverty, this book is a valuable response: Easterly speaks directly and convincingly to many of Sachs's propositions. And if you want to know more before reading this book, I recommend Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen's review in Foreign Affairs (March 2006, "The Man Without a Plan," available online)
