Finally I've found a book that express my strong inner feelings about the huge device for manipulating ideas in our world.

It was a very important book for me, because it is the very first time that I see all stuff concerning skepticism reunited in just a single book that, by the way,  was very well written and focused in all audience, with funny and enlightening stories. (As the author has commented, cases for the normal people is more impacting than statistics)

I recommend that all people interested in clear a little bit your mind from the big mountain of biased ideas that are spread all around  the world, should reading this book. It's a easy and pleasant reading.

It's important to tell, as a other reviewer has commented, that the children magical thinking (fairies, monsters, etc) it expands for the adult imaginary world. Just the fantasies are different and seems more real.

But there is another important fuel that  was not cleared told by the author or other reviewers. MONEY.

There is a millionaire industry that fools people in all areas (ideology, cosmetics, business consulting, democracy, medicine, etc.) because it produces more money (and all your branches) for some people.

Sometimes, this books turns a little bit repetitive or exaggerating. I cannot  agree that all investment analysis, including fundamental analysis, is scrap or that self-esteem in working environment is not related to productivity or that intuition in some people is not powerful. I consider the arguments that the author uses falls into the same thinking errors categories that he  appoints in other questions. You cannot defeat a thesis with just few and naive claims. 

Investments is a very complex question. Funds are also interested in transaction volume, because is a easy way to win money. I think the reason why some funds outperforms is a mixture of random and real talent in different proportions. So it's dangerous put all funds in the same bucket in any research about this.

A working environment is a case that are several simultaneous intervenient factors besides self-esteem, but proves that self-esteem and productivity are not related is so difficult as prove the opposite statement. 

Finally, the intuition is not mysticism. First, everybody thinks that your self intuition is good and it is not. Second, intuition born from experience, like a neural networks. You only learn to ride bicycles when you forget how!
