I loved this book. I mean I LOVED this book! It probably took me longer to read it than it took the author to write it, because I kept underlining it and pausing to consider the concepts! 

My only two concerns were this: The book should be marketed to ALL followers of Jesus, not just those people who work in full time humanitarian aid! Every follower of Christ is called to make disciples--and we need to recognize that this means holistic discipleship--promoting the advancement of health in every area of life: spiritually, physically, mentally, etc. That is primarily what this book is about, and every follower of Christ can benefit from it. 

The other issue I'd like to bring up is that the book refers to having to work with the local institutional church, and how even though that is often difficult, it has to be done. My concern here is that there are other ways to integrate "church" into community development--like discipling the people to start their own simple fellowships. Too often institutional churches provide perpetual spiritual "relief" rather than "development". By that I mean that the pastor or leaders just "tell people how it is" rather than helping new Believers dig into the Bible on their own. It's like a spiritual "welfare program". Is it reasonable to suggest that since holistic community development means helping people to help themselves spiritually as well as in other ways, then we should promote/facilitate the kind of churches that model this? The house/simple church movement that encourages "every member ministry", church as a lifestyle, shared responsibilities, dialogue over monologue, etc., should at least be a strong consideration. I pray for the day when Christian humanitarian aid workers and church planters recognize that their work is identical if truly done holistically! IE discipling people in life-giving lessons that can be easily transferred to others (II Timothy 2:2), while alternating topics from day to day or week to week. One day the lesson may be about oral rehydration solution, and the next day it's on forgiveness, etc. Both are vital lessons for the health of the community, and both can be easily passed on by the local people, while working in a field or sitting under a tree, etc.! Holistic teaching IS promoted in this book, but it's not seen as empowering the local people to lead their own simple, reproducing churches. 

"Church Planting Movements" by David Garrison, "Houses that Change the World" by Wolfgang Simson, and "Going to Church in the First Century" by Dr. Robert Banks are helpful books on this topic.
