____Clark Pinnock is one of the most productive theologians in the 20th century. Contrary to some of the other critics, this book is less about open theism and more about God's dynamic relationship with us.  It is a master work that no classical theist has to date come up to with respect to raw theologizing in defending God's dynamic work "through" His Spirit in our world in "classical" theism.  Many classical theists can complain--and they do with a vengeance--but let them provide some substance. On open theism itself, Pinnock has now weighed in with his Most Moved Mover that blasts through the settled God of classical theism with far more kindness, erudition, finesse, and "Christian" spirit than Pinnock's adversaries (Bruce Ware and John Frame in particular, and I take these two to task in the appendices of my own book, Heart of the Living God, seen at www.preciousheart.net). 
____What Pinnock has done, as one author has said, is look seriously as all of the Bible believing traditions.  Pinnock is certainly not Roman Catholic (RC), but that also does not mean that RC theologians do not have a lot to contribute (even classical Protestant theologians quote and profit from sterline RC theologians).  We don't have to agree on every point to see God working in many traditions, and the Bible is the authoritative guide. Pinnock takes us to new levels of sophistication--even daringly so--with just what the Holy Spirit's activity means in our lives today.
____I say some of this to my own chagrin, for in my schools (Criswell College, SWBTS, NOBTS, from 1978 to 1997) Pinnock's work was not given a fair shake.  I know now why.  I read his Flame of Love for the first time just a little while ago, AFTER having been taken in and hugged by his Most Moved Mover (and sloppily slapped around by Ware's and Frame's lackluster critiques).  I had to see more.  One does not have to be a full open theists to appreciate those to defend our living, real-time, and dynamic relationship with God--my goodness no--and the classical critics should be ashamed that they have not come up to speed themselves in just what is open or truly dynamic in our relationship besides their own complaining about openness.
____Having said all of that, even though Flame of Love is already a little dated--it is still ground breaking in many ways and deserves far more the mere tribbling complaints.  Most especially since the critics of it have hardly weighed in with ANYTHING as substantial on what "dynamic living relationship" with our heavenly Father means.
____What is Love?  What is the role of the Holy Spirit in Love?  This book gives some insights from a master theologian's hands, punctuated throughout with solid quotes from other masters.  Heck fire and tickle my innards, read this book just for the quotes and references--that would be worth the price--but Pinnock has a pithy, rich and direct voice all his own
