This is in response to an earlier reviewer, who stated "b) the "answers" are so convoluted and weak, nobody can remember them or make sense of them enough to repeat them." In a summary of the answer as to why God will stand by and watch a child be raped and murdered, I would say - God created the world with free choice. If a child is being raped and murdered, that is the free choice of the person who is committing the act, an act of evil, and he will ultimately pay for it. The child, who suffers, will [probably; I can't really pass judgment on this and I am a little bit unsure of concepts of heaven etc.] go to heaven and have everlasting peace, through this bit of suffering [and remember, all people suffer at some point or another. There is no one who passes in and out of this world without suffering, and there is no way to quantify or qualify suffering, and to say which kind of suffering is "better" or "worse," because it is all suffering.] 

People have a choice to either be good or evil. Because there is free choice, there are such things as love, real love, and yes, hate, real hate. But the free choice makes life worth living. If we were all automatons in a world where nothing bad happened, we would not be capable of really loving, really cherishing what we have in this life, and really looking forward to the better life that comes through death, or the paradise that Christians refer to. If God intervened when one child was being abused, then He would have to intervene when all people are abused ever, and that would require qualifying pain/suffering/etc. People are dying every second. Car accidents, drug abuse, AIDS, you name it. But death is a fact of life. No death is a "good" death in the sense that all lead to the pain of the self as well as loved ones. So, if God intervenes when someone is about to experience suffering, then he should intervene whenever anyone ever is about to experience suffering, and that would make life false, and remove the quality of free choice that is inherent and important to human existence, and actually separate humans from God, because they would not understand death and suffering, they would love this life too much, and not recognize that this life is temporary and that a better life will follow.

[This actually ignores the possiblity that God DOES intervene, through prayer. Many people believe that when they have prayed, God has intervened in their lives. But that is a whole different issue.]

I remember being young, and wishing I had a magic pill that I could give to a boy to make him "like" me. Imagine if that actually existed. We all want love. So, someone loves you, but not because it is really love, but because he has been tricked/drugged/brain-washed into loving you. That is not real love. It would be depressing. We can look at human love for God in the same way. God created us hoping that we would find Him, love Him, and need Him. Not so that we could be little robots who would love and honor him without a thought, for no real reason.

I can't make a historical summary of why bad things happen in the name of religion. Yes, bad things happen in the name of religion, love, or whatever else that is, on its own, "good."  But killing in the name of a religion usually has political motivations that have nothing to do with the religion, and are rooted in evil, and the people who perpetrate these things will ultimately pay for it; those who were the victims of these things experienced the pain and suffering that all people will endure [to greater or lesser degrees, at some point or another].

Since I haven't addressed my views on Strobel's book, I will do it now. I think a lot of it is very informative, for a Christian or non-Christian, and certainly any uneducated atheist or Christian who throws around terms like evolution, spontaneous generation, big bang, etc. etc. Most people don't realize that there is a HUGE difference between macro and micro evolution, that Darwin's vague notion that macroevolution was even possible was based on misconceptions about the development of life that are now understood via technology, and microevolution and Christianity are NOT mutually exclusive. 

I would also disagree with someone who thinks that Strobel's book goes against the basic principles of faith. Yes, faith is supposed to be something separate from reason. We have faith in things that cannot be determined empirically. We have faith that someone loves us, we have faith in ourselves, etc. etc. In religion, though, a lot of people, especially today [with so much information out there, a lack of education, and people being much more reason-oriented than centuries ago] people have so many mental/intellectual barriers, that it's difficult for them to allow themselves to feel faith. So, Strobel gives reasons to remove those mental barriers, to explain the flaws in Darwinian theory, to explain how unbelievable is the theory of spontaneous generation without intelligent design. Removing this barriers alone will not bring one to faith, but will help someone ultimately find faith, if one wants to.

My main complaint about the book "Case for Faith" would actually be that it's slightly too chatty. There are narrative qualities that almost detract from the book's credibility, but make it much more readable. So, this is probably good for the typical reader, who doesn't want to be bogged down by philosophical/scientific arguments without a soft/chatty/entertaining narrative quality. Also, yes, this book is not a great historical text for scholars. It is not meant to be a book for scholars. It is a book for the typical person who battles with the idea of faith in God, and it is probably more useful for the person who *wants* to believe in God but has too many questions. For the person who does *not* want to believe in God, I am not sure how convincing the book would be. To have faith requires, usually, a desire to have faith. Someone who actively does not want to find God will probably not find him. One must seek in order to find Him.
