This is not a conventional biography of Pol Pot.  As Short comments in an appendix, it is the history of the Khmer Rouge experiment from the point of the view of the Khmer Rouge leadership.  Given the absence of adequate documentary material, a conventional biography is impossible.  Short has utilized a large number of interviews of the Khmer Rouge leadership and associated figures plus some documentary material and published secondary literature to assemble a group portrait of the Khmer Rouge leadership with Pol Pot as the central figure.  Short presents the early history of the men who became the central figures of the Khmer Rouge, their careers in the turbulent world of Cambodian politics, the process of the rise to power, the triumph of the Khmer Rouge struggle for power, the horrible period of Khmer Rouge dominance, and their fall from power under the pressure of the Vietnamese invasion.  
Like many, but not all, of the Khmer Rouge leadership, Pol Pot emerged from a relativaly privileged background and benefitted from the French educational system.  Quite a few received additional education in France, where they often fell under the spell of Marx, partly because Marxists were the most prominent voices of anti-colonialism in France.  Short has a nice narrative  of the brutal Cambodian politics from the early 50s through the Khmer Rouge accession of power.  He devotes quite of bit of effort to analyzing the Khmer Rouge ideology, a strange compound of heterodox Marxism and Cambodian nationalism.  Short presents this ideology has having very peculiar origins.  Pol Pot, for example, attended secondary school during the semi-fascist Vichy period and would have been exposed in school to the Petainist emphasis on the need for a dominant national leader, bias against cosmopolitan cities, and the fascist cult of violence.  As a student in France, he was taken with some of the writing of the anarchist philosopher Kropotkin.  Several of the Khmer Rouge leadership had some education in Buddhist temples and Short indicates that the Khmer Rouge ideology had structural elements borrowed from Theravada Buddhism.  
On his own terms, Short is successful.  He provides a clear and narrative related to Cambodian politics, the background of the Khmer Rouge, and some insight into the nature and sources of their ideology.  In other respects, however, Short's analysis is unsatisfactory.  He has been criticized for his comments that the Khmer Rouge were not trying to commit genocide.  Short is certainly not trying in any way to exculpate the Khmer Rouge or minimize their amazing crimes but his comments in this matter are excessively legalistic.  Perhaps more important questions arise about his efforts to ground the ideology and actions of the Khmer Rouge in specifically Cambodian origins, thus for example, the emphasis on the Buddhist features of Khmer Rouge ideology.  Short has a good series of points.  It is clearly true, that Cambodian politics had a brutal character dating back to early efforts against the French in the 1940s.  The government of Lon Nol, which the Khmer Rouge overthrew, practiced large scale pogroms and ethnic cleansing against ethnic Vietnamese.  Short, however, is not a historian and his lack of broad perspective shows in some of his analysis.  His attribution of some features of Khmer Rouge to Theravada Buddhism may be wrong; some aspects he describes as having probably Buddhist sources are true of almost any successful popular ideology.  Ultimately, his explanation of Khmer Rouge murderousness is unsatisfactory because such events have occurred in a wide variety of socities in the course of the 20th century.  Short's focus on Cambodian causes may blind him to useful comparisons.  There are clear and potentially informative analogies between events in Khmer Rouge Cambodia and the early history of the Soviet Union.  Both the great famines that followed the effort to impose revolution from above on the countryside and the purges of the party are clearly similar features.  In the case of the purges, Short emphasizes the paranoia of the leadership, particularly Pol Pot.  This is fair, but Stalin used the purges as a means of destroying potential competitors and by promoting disorganization, making his personal authority indispensable.  It is likely that Pol Pot the same.  
This is a useful and informative book but readers have to keep its limited perspective and limited analysis in mind. 
