

Grace Lin's debut novel, "The Year of the Dog", centers around a little girl named, well, Grace Lin. The author admits this book is based on her childhood as a budding artist and Taiwanese American growing up in Upstate New York.

"...this is the book I wished I had growing up," Lin relates on the back cover flap.

The clever storyline interweaves old traditions with new ones. The book is structured with stories inside of stories. Interludes such as "How My Name Changed from Pacy to Grace" and "Mom's First Day of School" meld backstory with the plot of a remarkable little girl with a big heart.

What makes this book highly relatable to young girls is the protagonist's real-life quest to find herself. Using the Chinese Year of the Dog as the framework for the story, Lin builds the book around an entire year filled with celebrations, school projects and relationships.

I would have liked to see more external dialogue about how others viewed the little girl, Grace. The author made it sound as if only the protagonist herself was conflicted. I was left wondering if her non-Asian classmates, teachers and community were always as accepting of her as she portrayed them to be. She dismissed this topic by creating her best friend, Melody Ling, the only other Asian-American girl in school.

As a non-Asian American, I found the illustrations enlightening. For instance, Lin depicts her grandmother with her tiny feet which, according to Chinese tradition, had been bound as a child. She shows the picture of a pioneer doll which no doubt had blonde hair and blue eyes. The classic misunderstanding of what both mother and daughter mean by a china doll underscores the painful realization of being caught between several cultural worlds.

This book is instructive and empowering for young girls. I recommend it as a resource for anyone struggling to find herself in today's motley world.
 
Christine Louise Hohlbaum, American author of "Diary of a Mother" and "SAHM I Am: Tales of a Stay-at-Home Mom in Europe", lives near Munich, Germany, with her husband and two children. Subscribe to her parenting newsletter at http://www.diaryofamother.com. 
