In bringing through "If God Hears Me I Want An Answer!" Barbara has offered an incredible tool for awakening our Divine connection of communication and guidance with our higher selves.  As you will learn this connection is our birthright and has been with each one of us since day one.  

Many of us share so many of the same struggles and hardships in life and search through our five senses to find resolution and a better way.  This can lead us all into an endless cycle of searching and trying to fill the void in our lives with so much from the outside, leading to not only more emptiness and lack of resolution but the addition of so many more questions and issues to clear.  Barbara has brought through to mankind the guide book and understanding to learn to receive divine guidance in every area of our lives.  The truth in the book "If God Hears Me, I Want An Answer!" Is delivered with complete honesty and clarity, you can feel the goodness and power of the message from the very first page.   Without delay, anyone from any background or life experience can immediately use the tools given in this book to receive perfect pure guidance to heal and transform the issues they are facing and the life they live.   This process once learned is available in every moment on every issue that weighs on your heart. 

I personally have experienced the power of transformation doing my own writings using the tools and instruction given in this guidebook.  Its impact is immediate and the healing so pure and powerful on all levels of any issue or situation that I have faced in my own life.  I cannot recommend it enough to anyone and everyone who wishes to transform and heal their lives to become all that you are and lift you to the highest good you were brought into this life to contribute.  It is real and available to you now all that is required is a pure heartfelt request.  You will be amazed at the wisdom that you hold and have always held waiting to be released.   

Thank you Barbara for bringing through, for giving us this tool, this return to who we truly are and the guidance, wisdom and love offered to us all in every moment.  There truly is no greater gift.   
