The typical minority household in the United States now owns less than one-tenth the wealth of a typical white household. Even worse, this gap is actually growing, an increase that's confounding America's mainstream public policy analysts.

These analysts treat racial inequality as purely a function of unequal access to jobs, skills, and education. The more access, the less inequality.

That certainly sounds reasonable. But if this analysis were correct, then racial inequalities ought to be narrowing, since Americans of color today have far more access to jobs, skills, and education than they did just a generation ago.

So why is racial inequality, as measured by net worth, expanding? Thomas Shapiro has an answer in his insightful new Hidden Cost of Being African American. Racial inequalities are widening, he argues, because Americans continue to ignore our nation's incredibly unequal distribution of wealth.

That maldistribution, Shapiro contends, has essentially trumped the expanded access to jobs, skills, and education won through years of civil rights struggles.

Consider two young people. Both study hard in high school. Both go on to attend college. One has parents with enough wealth to foot the bill for college tuition. The other graduates with thousands of dollars in student loan debt.

These two young people get hired by the same company. Both make the same income, and both look to buy their first home at the same time. But only one has parents who can help with the downpayment. The other, still burdened with student debts, gets dirty looks from lenders -- and ends up with a mortgage at a higher monthly rate.

Our lucky young person, buoyed by abundant parental help, can afford to buy a home in a nice neighborhood with good schools. Our unlucky young person can only afford a home in a considerably less desirable neighborhood.

Fifteen years later, the home in the nice neighborhood has appreciated nicely. The other home has not. Our two now-no-longer-young people still make the same income. But they are not equally wealthy. Only one lives in financial security. One is white, the other black.

How can we begin to turn this dynamic around? Shapiro sees "no means of seriously moving toward racial equality without positive asset policies to address the racial wealth gap." And Shapiro also emphasizes the importance of leveling down privilege at the top of America's economic ladder. 

"What is really at stake," he writes, "is the power of very wealthy individuals to assure succeeding generations economic success and material comfort through unearned advantages, regardless of any achievements or contributions they may make."

[Excerpted from a review that appeared in Too Much, the online weekly newsletter.
