This was the first Ian McEwan book that I read, and overall I was quite impressed. McEwan has a definite knack for illustrating the complexities of his characters and his prose, though sometimes tedious, is overall quite beautiful.

Atonement is divided into 4 sections. The first, and longest book, takes place several years before WWII. This section, which comprises nearly 170 pages, takes place over a single day at the Tallis household in the English countryside. The main characters are Briony, a precocious 13 year-old, her older sister Cecilia, who is home on break from Cambridge, and Robbie, the cleaning lady's son, who, despite his humble origins has managed to graduate from Cambridge thanks to the beneficence of the Tallis family. There are also a number of peripheral characters. The plot of this first section consists of Robbie and Cecilia discovering that they have feelings for one another. Briony in her youthful naivete misunderstands Robbie's intentions toward her sister, and this misunderstanding, plus a fair dose of class prejudice, contributes to Robbie being convicted of a crime which he did not commit.

The first section, although it starts a bit slowly, really picks up as the narrative gathers steam, and I found it hard to put the book down. This section ends on such an intense note, with Robbie accused of this crime, that the reader wants an immediate resolution to the conflict. However, Book 2 does not offer such gratification. It takes place several years in the future, during the war. Robbie is in France trying to make his way to the shore in order to be evacuated back to England. Only very gradually do we find out what has happened in the interim years and how the various characters that we met in the first book have been transformed. Book 3 also takes place during the war, from Briony's perspective. She is now a nurse and we find out that she has come to realize that accused an innocent man. The question hanging over the whole narrative is whether Briony will in the end seek forgiveness from Cecilia and Robbie.

The main problem I had with the book and the reason I deducted a star is the disconnect between Book 1 and the subsequent books. Books 2 and 3 stand very well on their own. McEwan does a masterful job of conveying the horrors of war, from the vantage point of both the soldier and the nurse, and their are some moments that are genuinely memorable (such as Briony's efforts to comfort a dying soldier). However, Book 1 ended on such a furious note that the reader wants a quick resolution. The numerous pages detailing Robbie and Briony's respective travails during the war often just seem like an interlude. When the atonement does finally come, I will leave it other readers to decide whether it satisfied their expectations
