For many, maybe most, modern life just is. There is little understanding or even interest in the forces that shape, or more perniciously control, lives. That ignorance in no way disestablishes corporations as the most powerful, self-serving entities of the modern era. However, this book is not particularly concerned with all of the ramifications of their immense power to influence and control society. 

The book primarily examines the profound change in the legal standing of corporations that occurred in the last half of the nineteenth century and into the first decades of the twentieth. Though not heavily argued, the author contends that Americans in the colonial period were very leery of corporations. After the founding, corporations came into existence only via state charters that specifically detailed and limited a corporation's activities with the real possibility of charter revocation acting as an effective incentive for compliance. But business interests began to battle those limitations, especially on the legal front.

The Santa Clara County case decided by the Supreme Court in 1886 was the case on which the subsequent legal empowerment of corporations was based. Though not specifically stated in the opinion, it is commonly held that after that decision, corporations would be viewed as "persons," the subject of the fourteenth Amendment, whereby all persons are entitled to due process and the equal protection of laws. Even the great John Marshall in 1819 had asserted that corporations are an "artificial being ... existing only in the contemplation of law." Now the artificial nature of corporations was being disregarded, clearing the way for consideration as the equal of any citizen with all of the same rights. The fact that corporate resources overwhelm those of any one person appears to not have been considered. 

In the laissez-faire, Social Darwinist atmosphere of the early twentieth century individuals were left to compete with their corporate "equals." Time and again legislation that sought to ameliorate dreadful workplace conditions was struck down as interfering with liberty of contract, ignoring the one-sidedness of employer-employee exchange. 

The same thinking is seen in decisions regarding participation in the political process. The author shows how the courts have subtly distorted the meaning of the First Amendment as protecting corporate "speech." In actuality, the amendment protects speakers - real people, not entities. The real speech of corporate stakeholders, such as customers, has routinely been suppressed. For example, a quarterly consumer's section in an energy utility's newsletter was disallowed, despite the utility's monopoly of the region.

The author shows that legal decisions regarding corporate personhood have since Santa Clara been very inconsistent and even contradictory. One would have thought that the author would have weighed in on the "strict construction" arguments that have been the  rage over the last few decades. The reading of corporations as persons by the courts is a definite distortion of original intent. Moreover, the original intent of constructing a nation of self-governing citizens has been seriously eroded by allowing monolithic entities to dominate arenas where citizens participate, like elections. 

The author notes that several movements at the turn of the nineteenth century attempted to counter corporate power, namely the Populists, the Knights of Labor, the IWW, and the socialists. Virtually all of them ran into the power of the state and reactionary forces that contained and eliminated the movements. Some of this material is rather sketchy. 

In recent years corporations have gained tremendous advantages by being able to relocate internationally facilitated by any number of trade agreements. Through the WTO and other bodies, corporations are able to force nations to rescind legislation that they see as impacting their profitability. The modern anti-corporate movement often takes the form of anti-globalization, perhaps best seen in the Seattle demonstrations against the WTO. In addition, the author hopes for cooperatives or economic democracy as alternatives to corporate power. Such efforts have had little impact. 

Any number of authors have addressed the dominance of corporations, such as Bakan, Greider, Hartmann, Korten, Schweickart, etc. This book is less comprehensive than those by the authors mentioned. It is a reasonable and readable overview of the legal shenanigans and rationalizations that have occurred concerning the rightful place of corporations in our society over the last 125 years. In an era where conservative movements have gained ascendancy, it is doubtful that any of this literature has a wide audience.
