As the book cover clearly states, "Little Miss Dynamite" is about "the life and times of Brenda Lee".  That it is, in fullest detail.  And a certain amount of details are absolutely required since Brenda has had such a long, versatile and varied career. According to Billboard, BL had 29 Rock n' Roll chart songs from 1960-1967 and 19 Country hits from 1957-1985.  None are listed as crossover hits, meaning this girl was truly and uniquely versatile. Age-wise, her chart success spans ages 13(!) to 41. Her touring life is far broader.  She has fans around the world and may still be performing today. This reviewer clearly remembers Brenda on the late, lamented "American Bandstand" and the old "Dick Clark Show" on Saturday nights on ABC.  Give yourself 10 points if you remember the sponsor! Her songs are easy to rate, but this written effort is far more difficult. BL met a lot of folks along the way, some decidedly more savory than others. She has been hurt by dishonest agents and cheated of royalties by record companies. She is no stranger to reinventing herself or picking herself up after a nasty professional fall.  A girl obviously has to watch her back in the music world.  Happily, her family life remained intact through it all.  If there is a problem with LMD, it lies in the sheer heft of songs recorded, folks of all stripes encountered, friends gained, friends lost, concerts worked, grueling tours endured, back stabbings,  betrayals, family pleasures, celebrities (lots!) and tidbits, tidbits and more tidbits.  It's all a little wearying. The best solution here would have been for that proverbial stern, no nonsense editor with a sharp blue pencil to chop a solid 50 pages from the text. But those types don't exist anymore -and one of the co-authors is Brenda's daughter!  How does one tell Mom she went overboard? Besides the length, LMD suffers from a constant upbeat, optimistic tone! Is BL REALLY such an optimist after what she has been through?  For a rating, this reviewer is giving this hard working girl a break and rating LMD 4 stars, perhaps based on those "Bandstand" appearances when he was in the 7th grade. The best way to appreciate Brenda is not to read about her but to listen. Amazon has an ample selection of her alums. Especially recommended is "The Brenda Lee Story" which ably covers BLs wonderful rock years on Decca records.  Listen to "Fool # 1" and become a Brenda convert.
