True, the author does make a few snide remarks and inserts quite a bit of opinion into the book but just because one doesn't agree with it does not make it wrong.

I really read the NYC chapter pretty carefully looking for use of the word "fascist" after reading Jem's take on the book and I could not find any example of the author using that word. Maybe I missed it, but probably not. He does refer to some people as being skinheads, but also makes the makes the distinction between skinheads and actual Neo-Nazis and so do many people quoted in the book. Ian McKaye even refers to him and his friends as being skinheads, but makes the arguement that they had beliefs that were the complete opposite of Neo-Nazis.  Maximum Rock N' Roll is talked about in numourous aside from being fascist, which I don't remember him calling them.

Blush does portray some of the early hardcore scene being a way for the middle-class to blow off steam, but he also gives the lower-class and the upper-class recognition for the parts they played in hardcore. He talks about plenty of bands and uses quotes from plenty of band members who come from all social classes and there is plenty of talk about it and who came from a good background and a bad background. It is fairly comprehensive in this regard, and it is really interesting to read how hardcore was fairly accepting of any social background.  There is also plenty of talk about where that steam comes from, be it from being outcasts in their communities, feeling frustrated and helpless about the political climate (Reagan, the cold war, the excess spending and vanity of the 80's) they were faced with, boredom with the sterileness and fake attitudes of the popular music of the times, being poor and feeling hopeless and being rich and hopeless, or just being completely wacked out on drugs.

I was very young during this time, way more interested in Sesame Street and completely unaware of hardcore until much later. I also listen to many different types of music, not just punk. This book, to me, was quite informative and I learned a lot about what was going on across the nation with this musical movement. For someone that was a part of the original wave of hardcore music, they might have their own opinions and views that differ from the author's. It's good to take into account that when Blush offers his opinions on bands or scenes, that is all they are and he makes sure to add a lot of factual information as well to counter any bias he had.

The only flaw is that at times it reads like a text-book, when he goes through various bands it can start to get repetitive. There are typos, but this can be the case in many books of this length and scope, particularly collections and text-books, and it is also an indie publisher so I cannot say I did not expect typos. I consider this to be a survey book on the subject of early American hardcore and it does a good job on it, no easy task for a first time author.

My only other gripe is that, while calling the Boston chapter "This is Boston, Not L.A." after a song of the same name by The Freeze, it does not mention the song or the meaning behind the song which was a commentary on how Boston bands were starting to sound like clones of each other like the bands in L.A., I believe. Again, opinion but worth noting, especially if you're going to name the chapter after that song. Good band, The Freeze
