As I read, my main feeling was de Lint was either talking down to me or wasting my time telling me things I already knew. Either way, I couldn't wait to get past him and into the characters, the story ... but he wouldn't let me. Even so, getting to know a few of the characters more than made up for the frustrations of his technique.

If you haven't read any others of de Lint, especially the ones centering on "Newford," don't start here. Read Trader or his anthology Tapping the Dream Tree first to get your feet wet, get used to characters which'll pop up in later novels with gossipy, small-town regularity. (Newford's a little like the spirit of Vancouver transplanted into eastern Canada.)

I'd recommend Forests of the Heart most highly for the sole reason of getting to know the character Bettina San Miguel -- she's my sole reason for the stars. Full of spirit (and spirits), a heady mix of Spanish, English, Indigena culture roiling around in her like a pack of dogs (you'll see what I mean) and a tongue sharp as a beak. What a heart, and like a lot of us what she lacks in courage she makes up for in determination (one of the lessons in the novel). She reminds me of one of those people you're gonna love and probably misunderstand a lot as she gets older, she's brimming with mystery. Her story alone is definitely worth the effort of the rest of the novel.

It's really an OK book, a lot better toward the end when less slowed down by pedantic asides and over-explanation. But even then, it was manipulative -- the trick of cliff-hanging the audience to heighten tension. Earlier, it was hard for me to get engaged in reading. It felt like watching one of those horror movies where stupid people get on your nerves doing obviously stupid things. The plot's obvious, so you need to *like* the characters. Yet some of the characters are incredibly dense, stubborn, and I thought far too stupid to be who they otherwise are in the mileu of this novel. Let alone deserve to *be* in a novel. I'd sigh, "Who cares?" Sure, they're characters ... but they'd not become people. They seemed tacked onto the novel, devices, as if the author had designed the book via an outline, thinking if it was complicated enough, if they were, it would show "depth of charater." Paradoxically, this is a work of the mind trying to show the heart.

Every character had moments, which drastically slowed down the story's pace, where they seemed to be given "flaws" (complexity) of character to make them "more human" ... but all it did was show the messy hand of the author. Sometimes it seemed de Lint would drag a character on stage just in order to have an excuse to explain some plot line. The author did a lot more telling than showing in this novel.

There's one good philosophic point he makes, though -- the crucial distinction between power and luck, and why to chose one over the other, how that makes a difference. And I liked how all the characters needed heart healing of some sort, and how that dove-tailed them together.

But it was weary (and faintly embarrassing) to wade through tedium: the author seemed to feel the need to keep having some character or other step up to elaborate. Maybe de Lint's gotten gun-shy about readers who've just "fallen off the turnip truck." Maybe he got hit with loads of "fans" asking him dumb questions at fan-coms. But I wish he'd give his readers more credit. Sometimes the authorial voice was fairly preening, pedantic, and showing off -- trivia, arch ironic wit, "insider's wisdom," all sorts of wink-wink-nudge-nudge stuff. Please. He threw everything into this one.

I sense there's a rabid fan base he writes these stories for. I wish he respected them for their knowledge more. But I couldn't shake the feeling of looking in on a clique, an in-crowd, faintly incestuous for all its mish-mashing of world myths. (And, boy, what mish-mashing!) Perhaps de Lint is their only window on the larger world of the imagination, but I think that's just his conceit.

For all that, though, the injection of the American Southwest is a welcome zest in the Newford series. And Bettina, her lobo, the cadejos, as well as the Creek sisters -- he made them live. They are the stuff good stories are made of. Memories, too
