I admit it--I'm hooked on Cedar Cove.  It's my new soap opera and I can't get enough of Olivia, Justine, Charlotte, Grace, Maryellen, and all the other residents.  Debbie Macomber has done a superb job of portraying a small coastal town in Washington that lies midway between Mitford and Peyton Place on the sex and sin meter.  

The book centers on Grace Sherman, the town librarian, who was deserted by her husband of thirty-five years in the previous book, 16 LIGHTHOUSE ROAD.  Readers who were as mystified as Grace about where Dan went will finally find closure when the mystery of his disappearance is solved in a most unexpected way. 

Another mystery presents itself when a mysterious stranger who looks vaguely familiar to B&B owner Bob Beldon shows up on a dark and stormy night looking for lodging.  In the morning, the stranger is dead and the police are mystified.  

Olivia's romance with newspaper editor Jack Griffin continues but is stalled when ex-husband Stan reappears on the scene.  The life of Grace's daughter Maryellen is also explored in this novel, revealing her past sins and focusing on her current attraction to a reclusive photographer cum chef.  Also, Rosie and Zach Scott file for divorce after bitter battles and receive a surprising child custody arrangement from Judge Olivia Lockhart, owner of 16 Lighthouse Road and best friend of Grace Sherman.  Olivia's daughter Justine reappears with her new husband Seth and they overcome newly married separation blues and decide to open a restaurant.  Their chef, of course, will be Maryellen's secret lover.  Get the picture?  

Lives intermingle, old secrets are revealed and new ones are hinted at.  It's grand soap opera and hard to turn away from.  So, if you'd like to know who the mysterious stranger was, if Olivia will choose Jack or Stan, if Grace can find a life with Cliff, if Maryellen will allow Jon to play a part in her future, and a dozen other things, you'll want to pick up 311 PELICAN COURT (that's where Rosie and Zach live).  I know it'll be next on my list.


