I have always enjoyed cooking, but had never read this book.  I thought that traditional French cooking would be difficult to master, high in fat and unnecessarily time-consuming.  Also -- I'm an Italian-American -- I thought that Hazan was the last word in cooking.  Boy, was I wrong.

A few months ago, my teenage son returned from his first trip abroad raving about the meals that he'd had in Paris.  I knew from experience how great those meals could be and, to please him and provide my family with a new dinner experience, I bought "Mastering" and tried a few recipes.  I am now totally hooked.  Julia's recipes are clear, well-organized and easy to follow.  The book is exquisitely -- and logically -- organized, with each section beginning with a master recipe and continuing through several variations on that theme.  This method of organization teaches the structure as well as the ingredients of each recipe, thus encouraging further experimentation by the reader.  In other words, by following the recipes, you learn to cook. (Having recently read "My Life In France," I now know that this was Child's intention: "Mastering" took years to write, with each recipe tested and refined many times.)  

Some recipes contain too much butter or cream for modern diets, but these recipes may be easily modified.  The techniques, however, are flawless:  my pie crust was flaky and did not shrink; the ratatouille (which is low in fat) was perfect and beautiful; the swordfish provencale was so good that my son, who never eats leftovers, ate the leftovers cold out of the refrigerator.  Indeed, the pastry dough recipe works so well that, after turning it out into the pan, I exclaimed aloud, "Julia Child is brilliant!", much to the surprise of my plumber, who was working in the house at the time and had walked into the kitchen to ask about a leak.  In sum, if you have been afraid of this book, don't be, and if you think that it has become dated or irrelevant -- a mere collector's item -- you are very wrong.  I still love Hazan, but "Mastering" is the master class
