BOLD SPIRIT:  HELGA ESTBY'S FORGOTTEN WALK ACROSS VICTORIAN AMERICA is an unforgettable story of Helga and Clara Estby's trek from Spokane, Washington to New York.  The book is an interesting biographical and historical narrative of the mother and daughter's trip because it is about ordinary people, and how their lives paralleled the historical past in terms of women's history, social and cultural history, and immigration history.  Hunt stresses the restrained lives in which Helga and Clara lived, but emphasizes their desire to walk cross-country within the contiguous United States to raise funds to save their farm; a challenging and unusual feat during the late nineteenth century especially for women and the roles they lived.

The major argument about the book is that Hunt lacked enough primary documents in order to provide a complete account of the Estby's journey.  However, the crux of the story involves women's suffrage, and the Estby's struggle for acceptance within a patriarchal society that looked down on women's progressive activity, especially Norwegian immigrant women who also experienced severity as well.  Hunt successfully weaves a story and history about two women who lived during one of the most tumultuous periods in American history, which is closely connected to the family. With inspiration from a history essay written by eighth-grader Doug Bahr, grandson of Thelma Estby, and the remaining sole document of the Estby's trip, a scrapbook owned by Thelma, Helga's granddaughter, which reveals the remaining account of their trip from two newspaper articles from the Minnesota Times, Hunt was able to tell the Estby's story with the addition of research and a compilation of secondary sources.  Despite the limited personal accounts from Helga and Clara, the articles reveal their adventure of scenic views of their trip, which consisted of the fading American frontier of pioneering days of the past and the somewhat fearful encounter of Native Americans amidst a transformed modern America constructed Union Pacific Railroad, and the beckoning cityscapes of Chicago and New York.  Ironically, upon the completion of their journey, the women would have to face further personal hardships in terms of returning home and the deaths of two family members.  

BOLD SPIRIT is an insightful and visual narrative that shows the fabric of America.  Linda Lawrence Hunt proves that a story that has been hidden for centuries as a result of familial strife that involved social and cultural norms that was expected during the nineteenth century, finally can be told.  Thus Helga and Clara's history is a shared history that is worth reading and understanding.    


  
