This book, the first published by Adam Smith, was very favorably received when it was first appeared in 1759.  Within a few generations, however, it was largely neglected due to various turns taken in moral philosophy.   Smith's approach is to paint the moral aspect of living in vivid colors, so  that it literally inspires virtuous conduct.  But in doing so, Smith never  preaches; instead, he illustrates the beauty of virtue even over the  practical advantages of living as though one were an &quot;Ideal  Observer&quot; or spectator. This perspective plays a large role in his  work, for according to Smith the moral perspective, and indeed conscience  itself, is largely a function of adopting the point of view of the  &quot;person principally concerned&quot; in morally relevant situations,  and subsequently sympathizing with the perspective of the various parties  involved.  Sympathy for Smith is not soft-heartednes (nor headedness), but  is instead identification with the motives and feelings of the parties  involved.  The volume includes one part devoted to an examination of the  history of ethical theory, interpreted through the lense of Smith's own  sentimentalist theory. One thing that should be noted about The Theory of  Moral Sentiments is that it goes a good way in correcting the impression  that Smith was a laissez-faire capitalist, and indeed the sentiments  expressed here make it clear that the popular conception of Smith as first  and foremost an economist concerned with automatic regulation resulting  from an &quot;invisible hand&quot; (a phrase used only twice in all of  Smith's writings, as explained by the editors in the excellent introduction  to this volume), do not mesh well with the historical facts.  He was a  professor of Moral Philosophy at Glasgow University, and is reputed to have  declared himself most proud, not of his most (and justly) famous, The  Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, but of this book instead.   Indeed, his headstone reads, &quot;Here Lies Adam Smith, Author of The  Theory Of Moral Sentiments and of The Wealth of Nations.&quot; The book's  major shortcoming is its ultimately unsatisfying appeals to human nature at  junctures where people clearly have disagreements.  Smith's defense of  retributive justice is an example, for today we might well see ourselves as  involved in a struggle to move beyond such a conception of what constitutes  appropriate behavior, despite the natural propensity that we may have  toward it.   Despite its age, this book will inspire and challenge people  now struggling with moral dilemmas, and the comparatively confusing moral  climate of our own time.  It is good to see it in print, and it is good to  see moral philosophers and others beginning to discuss its significance  once again.  I recommend it highly
