'Faith of My Fathers' is the story of three men - the grandfather and father of John McCain, who created a legacy of a life in service for McCain (the third man) to follow.  It is their legacies that led the young John McCain to the Naval Academy and to a career in the Navy.  Yet the legacy of these two men is wrapped up in morals, values and patriotism - exactly what makes John McCain the great leader that he is.

This book is divided into three sections.  It begins with the stories of McCain's grandfather, an admiral in the Navy who fought in WWII.  His grandfather is depicted as a true seaman, complete with the language.  He then goes on to talk about his father, another Navy admiral, who went on to serve as commander of the Pacific and entire naval force.  Greatly influenced by his grandfather and father, McCain received a commission in the Navy and sought to distinguish himself through serving the United States in war.  Unfortunately, that war happened to be Vietnam.

The third section of the book deals with McCain's experiences at the Naval Academy and his time as a prisoner of war in Hanoi.  McCain recognizes that because of his 'celebrity' status (due to his father's top position), he wasn't mistreated as severely as other prisoners.  His accounts of the heroism of these men are extraordinary; the pain they had to endure and the pain that broke them.  POWs were forced to make fake confessions, to listen to their former comrades condemn them in public, and to pretend that they were being treated humanely for the world audience.  

Throughout his political career, McCain has been known as a POW of Vietnam, yet this is not how he distinguishes himself.  He took what he learned from his time as a prisoner and set about living his life, grateful for his experiences.  At times the book fluctuates in time periods, which can get rather confusing.  Besides the stories of his grandfather and father, and his time as a POW, McCain and co-author Mark Salter, weave in the world events - what went wrong in Vietnam, what could have gone right.  McCain lets his opinion be known, but recognizes that terrible responsibility that comes in waging war.  He has proven himself to be a hero worthy of admiration and the responsibility of leadership. 
