While the title of this book may be The Naked And The Dead, there's very little nudity yet a substantial amount of death. This is to be expected, however, as the book takes place in a war zone during World War II. The story, by Norman Mailer, tells of a group of American soldiers invading the Japanese island of Anopopei. Rather than single out a certain character as a protagonist, the story shifts perspectives between a vast array of characters to give the reader a view from many aspects of the war. Tellingly, with so many characters to remember, this is not a book you want to spend long intervals away from between readings.
	Mailer's is a simple and direct, yet powerful writing style. His precise attention to detail gives The Naked And The Dead the feel of a sort of literary documentary. Such is the reason Mailer is often heralded as one of the pioneers of "journalistic fiction", a highly realistic account of fictional happenings, almost as if reported by a journalist who was present. It's doubtful you can remember the last time you were substantially involved emotionally with a documentary, but there's no need to fear in this instance as Mailer imbues his characters with a very empathetic human quality. However, in order to come across these traits in the characters, one must venture deeply into the novel. You can define "deeply" however you'd like, as the novel weighs in at a sizable 721 pages. 
	One device Mailer uses to help readers get to understand his characters better is to intersperse "time machines" throughout the story. The time machines show things that happened to the men before they were sent to war and gives insight as to what shaped the characters into who they are now. If not for the flashbacks, the book would come dangerously close to lapsing into the sort of soulless informative prose that a novelization of a documentary would suggest. Whether showing the intense rush a soldier feels while in the midst of gunfire, the guilt of capturing an enemy only to find out he's a human being much like everyone else, to the alienation a lower-class troop feels amongst his peers when the general shows favoritism towards him, Mailer never loses sight of what's most important to a reader: feeling what the characters feel and having a sense of being right there with them,  bullets whirring past your head or hungering for battle in the still tension of the night. I would actually give this book 4.5 stars, if Amazon would let me do such a thing.
