Apparently this book was written for me as the author states this was written for "A generation of college students in Europe" in the year 2005. Well, I happened to be a California University student doing a year at the University of Tuebingen in Germany that very year.
I found this a facinating read, difficult to put down and I was sad when I finished reading it so I may read it again.
Highly recommended for any student of the European Union which happens to be one of my interests.
This book mixes political, philosophical history with geo-politics and "mid-level" futurism. The author supports his arguments very well although as many of his generation do, he finds American "Gen-X-ers" lazy. I wonder where that ever came from? Every '"Gen-X" young person I ever knew worked very hard. They just possesed a cynisism towards what consitutes the values of success in American society which this author ought to understand.  "Inconveneint Truth" ought to explain Gen -X angst to a great degree.
Gen-Y on the other hand..seem to be more ensnared in the gambling-minded, short-fused and violent set of attitudes that some population scientists see as symptoms of overpopulation and economic tension.
Perhaps this review is veering off the subject. This is definatly a book to get one thinking. Rifkin does go on a bit on the dangers of Europe's population decline as does the author of "Menace In Europe" (I would be very curious to know what Mr. Rifkin thinks of that book) when authors such as Paul Ehrlich ("One With Nineveh"p.99, a great read along with this book) say that..well...as rich developed countries devouring our small planet's resources like rabbits on Easter Island, we ought to thank the Europeans for not breeding so much. I'm sorry, some of us fail to see the crisis there. I'm sure this book will offend someone. Yawn.
But..the comparisons between the US and the EU are a great deal of fun for someone like me who feels much safer walking in muslum neighborhoods abroad than I often, sadly,do hanging out with other Americans
