"The idea of a universal mind or Logos would be, I think, a fairly plausible inference from the present state of scientific theory." Sir Arthur Eddington 
"Then we shall be able to take part in the discussion of the question of why it is that we and the universe exist. If we find the answer to that, it would be the ultimate triumph of human reason - for then we would know the mind of God." Stephen Hawking

Universe, Life and Deity:
In Paul Davis terminology, this is an inquiry in the mind of some very prominent scientists. It is a matter of great relevance to inquire how contemporary scientists visualize the relation between religion and science; the origin of the universe, life, and the existence of God. the 'Time Magazine' nominated the book as; "the year's most intriguing book about God was produced not by theologians but by 60 world-class scientists, 24 Nobel Prize-winners among them." 

The Questionnaire:
Although the idea of the book is not new and may have been motivated by the initiator faith, yet it presented scientists' unedited responses, which are uniquely stated, thoughtful, and revealing. It is said that the questions that deserve be asked are those which could not be answered.
Those metaphysical inquiries were about theological/natural sciences, the cosmological question on origins of the universe, life, and Homo sapiens, and their approach to these quizzes, and thought on the concept of God.

The Responses:
In his introduction which summarizes the spectrum of responses, Roy Varghese quotes Einstein, Plank, Heisenberg, and Hawking.
"Stranger than the strangest concepts and theories of science is the appearance of God on the intellectual horizon of twentieth century science,' deducts Varghese with reference to their statements. In 'A brief history of Time' Hawking declared, "We ought to know the mind of God', while Paul Davies is quoted to argue that, "the very fact that the universe is creative, and that the laws have permitted complex structures to emerge and develop to the point of consciousness- in other words, that the universe has organized its own self-awareness, is for me powerful evidence that there is 'something going on' behind it all."

Eccles' conclusion:
according to sir John Eccles the origin of consciousness is relevant to the origin of Homo sapiens: "The only certainty we have is that we exist as unique self-conscious beings, each unique, never to be repeated. This I regard as outside the evolutionary process. the evolutionary process gives rise to my body and brain but, dualistically speaking, that is one side of the transaction...So that brain and body are in the evolutionary process but yet not fully explained in this way. But the conscious self is not in the Darwinian evolutionary process at all." 
