J.K. Rowling moves her epic story into fresh territory in this mammoth addition to the Harry Potter series.  Along with new characters comes a new direction, as things become more hectic and dangerous for our beloved Harry.  Due to the length of this fourth novel (it exceeds 700 pages), my wife and I decided to check it out on CD at the public library.  We weren't disappointed, as Jim Dale did a marvelous job imitating the variety of characters that inhabit the tale.

In the beginning of the novel, Harry Potter finally seems to have a grip on things.  He is growing more accomplished in the field of magic, he is able to stand up for himself against his dreadful relatives, and he finally has a father-figure in the fugitive Sirius Black.  Harry even has the pleasure of accompanying his best friends to the Quidditch World Cup.  However, Harry's dreams grow progressively worse as Voldemort inhabits them.

During his forth year at Hogwarts, Harry is mysteriously selected to participate in the Triwizard Tournament, a competition between magical schools.  Though he is under the required age limit, Harry is forced into the tournament where he must use all his skill and know-how to survive.  During this time, Harry comes to question who he can really trust as the relationships with old friends and new are strained to the max.  Ironically one of the few people he feels he can depend on is the scary new defense-against-the-dark-arts teacher, Mad-Eye Moody.

This is the first book in the series that I've given less than five stars.  It was midway through the book that did it to me.  A lot of the story seemed to repeat itself over and over again: another argument with Ron, another class with "Blast-Ended Skrewts," and yet another annoying visit by the reporter Rita Skeeter.  While the darker tone the book has taken is probably necessary, it doesn't seem as quirky and fun as the first three.  However, the book is brought to a very satisfying climax as all the clues are brought light and the dark evil that has been dormant is finally unleashed.

All in all, I found Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire to be a great story.  J.K. Rowling has created something truly special here that will not go away.  I look forward to reading (or listening to) her future installments in this remarkable series.
