Harrold's personal story intrigued me on so many levels.  I worked as an English teacher on the southern half of the Korean penninsula during almost the same exact period he was in the North (1987-1993 for me).  Much of the xenophobic experiences that he attributes to ideology and politics, is rooted a culture that values much that the West does not:  tradition, stability, respect for authority, hierarchical relationships, conformity and consensus.  Of course, the DPRK's strident self-reliant communism, coupled with its constant search for "positive strokes" from outsiders greatly exacerbated the author's experiences, relative to my own.

It was especially fascinating to read how Harrold and North Koreans digested many of the incidences from that era--the South Korean "radical" who went illegally to North Korea; the visits to the North by Billy Graham and Rev. Moon; the drama surrounding the 1988 Olympics, and what, if any, role the North might have.  These and other anacdotes had me thumbing through the pages late into several nights--a true testament considering that we have three young children in the house!

Some have complained that Comrades and Strangers is thin on actual information.  However, part of Harrold's thesis is that a foreigner could be intelligent, observant, easy-going, willing to give up many personal liberties, and gain a working knowledge of North Korea's language, culture, history, and political workings, and still--after seven years--come out having barely scratched the surface.  Those who want details might do better reading Bradley Martin's "Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader."  However, this diary gives you an insider's feel for the North that Martin cannot match, despite his 800+ pages.

Having praised the content of Harrold's offering, a few minor issues.  The book comes across as a diary that's been organized for publication.  As such, it is occasionally uneven, sometimes a seeming collection of "random thoughts," and somewhat overabundant in mundane personal details.  While I enjoyed the work for its personal first-hand information and story-telling, I'm wondering if more revision and editing might have improved this effort.  Another concern--Comrades has a very narrow audience niche.  Those interested in things Korean, and in the particularly intriguing system that permeates the North--as learned and told by an expatriot with limited Korean language skills will likely prove few indeed.  

Bottom-line:  I loved this book--but mostly because I could relate to so much of it.  The writing is anecdotal, very personal, and it covers the enigma of North Korea from the perspective of a British national, employed by an official foreign language organ of the regime.  The mass market appeal for this work may be limited, by I personal thank Michael Harrold for giving me some truly enjoyable and thought-provoking reading
