Mander was working on two books, one on the negative effects of technology on our culture, and the other of the continued exploitation of native cultures in the U.S. and around the world. He says that, somewhere along the line, he realized that these two issues were one in the same. IN THE ABSENCE OF THE SACRED is the result. 
	The scope of this book is incredibly ambitious. It reads like a wandering survey of many of the most important issues that face our globe. I agree with much of what Mander says. A lot of it I disagree with. And a fair amount of it seems tangential and unrelated. To cover everything would take a book in itself. But here are some of the highlights.

On Technology and Corporations
	Mander's view on technology is that we should be skeptical of it. Technology is presented to us in a biased manner; namely, by the people who want to sell it to us. True. But he suggests that technology should not be viewed as neutral, but guilty until proven innocent. He says that the only way to balance current "technology worship" is to view it negatively. I disagree. Technology has many negative aspects -- a devaluation of people, an increase in environmental hazards, an increase in psychological disorders related to the overuse of television and computers, to name a few -- but it also has positive effects, most notably in the field of medicine and person-to-person connectivity. 
	Mander lists several reasons, mostly potential but unrealized dangers, to be skeptical of computers. Some make sense. For instance, using computers in warfare dehumanizes the effort. We are not killing people, merely blips on the screen. But some of his arguments against computers are ludicrous. For instance, he cites that computerized radar systems often mistake birds for enemy aircraft, as if this proves that technology has a negative impact. He is confusing the precision of our technology with the concept of technology itself. It's like arguing that because some books have typos that books in general are bad.
	There is a considerable amount of space devoted to the evils of television, the negative effects of the consolidation of the media, and the psychological ills television can create. While again Mander makes a few dubious assessments, overall his arguments against television are pretty solid.
	Mander also makes an important point about the nature of public corporations: profit is the top motive. Always. So to think that a corporation will act in an altruistic manner, or in the interest of the environment alone when it is not in alignment with the profit motive is naïve. This is key when it comes to environmental issues or issues involving native cultures. 

On The Indian Nations
The second half of the book is an overview of the dire situation many native cultures find themselves in. It is sickening to read about the continued exploitation of Native Americans by the U.S. government and U.S. corporations with very little, and typically mis-represented coverage by the media. In general, Native Americans hold lands with valuable mining, timber, and other resources (even those tribes that have been run off to the most useless, remote corners of nowhere find their lands now sought precisely because it is in the most remote corner of nowhere -- so the government can test weapons on it). The typical modus operandi is that the government creates a committee "representing" native "interests." They then offer the tribe money for land that the U.S. has "wrongfully taken" from the tribe. This is in effect a purchase of the land. If the tribe accepts the monetary reward, they lose rights to the land. If they refuse, the money typically goes into an account for the tribe and the government takes the land anyway. Meanwhile, the committee "representing" the tribe works to iron out the deal with the government while most of the tribe shows their disapproval in the common Indian way-by dissociating themselves with the process. It is a difference in cultures. To outsiders, it seems like they are abstaining from voting, but to them, that is how they show their disproval. Thus, the only people involved are the minority that favor giving over their lands. 
	Mander gives a whirlwind around-the-globe tour of oppressed indigenous people and discusses the various ways and degrees to which these ancient cultures are persecuted and misrepresented in many parts of the globe. It is shameful to read, and surprising to hear how big of an issue it continues to be, since we rarely hear of it in the mainstream media.

Like I said before, I agree with much of what Mander says. His environmentalism, skepticism of corporations and technology, and concern for native cultures are all important issues that should be discussed. But I have three major criticisms with how Mander presents his argument:
A) He makes statements that he fails to adequately back up with factual information. He does this most often in his arguments against technology, making blanket statements that couldn't possibly be proven. Among other things, he correctly argues that television centralizes power, but also argues that the Internet does the same thing. This book was published in 1991, so whatever Mander says about the Internet is prediction (an inaccurate one, in this case) and he had to know that at the time. 
B) The book feels like two different books: one a critique of our technologically-driven society, and an great, but not completely relevant, overview of the predicament of native cultures. Rather than summarizing the plight of indigenous cultures around the world, it would make more sense to focus on what the native cultures understand that we don't and what we can learn from their stewardship of the Earth. 
C) Mander offers little in the way of solution. He recognizes this, saying that this is the most common criticism of his arguments. But recognizing it doesn't mean you don't have to address it. To think that someone would read 400 pages outlining some of the planet's most important problems and not look to the author for a hint of a solution seems odd. And while this book is a good overview of the problems we face, I would think there is a better wrap-up than the rather obvious statement that we must "do something." Mander provides us a list of organizations whose aims align with his, but how about some concrete examples of what we can do? Not just individually, but as a movement. What should our strategy be? Paul Hawken, in his ECOLOGY OF COMMERCE, does a much better job at describing the change in attitudes that must take place to make progress.

Overall, this is a great book for the myriad of issues it raises. And what the arguments lack in cohesiveness, they make up for in scope. Though a little dated, this book is a good starting place for anyone interesting in environmentalism, the plight of native cultures, or both
