I started reading Heinlen when I was eight, and didn't know that some of the books he wrote were written for kids while others for adults until AFTER I had read both Time Enough for Love and Friday at the age of eleven.  Due to this, a large chunk of my social and political views were molded in a slightly different cast as my peers as Heinlen is,as my father put it, "the only man who could ever start a cult I would join" (which would have proably horrified him).  Having said that, take my review with a grain of salt.  

This is proabably my LEAST favorite Future History series of books, if only because it seemed to have the least point.  The rampant incest, free love, pokes at organized religion, and general snubbing of societal rules bothers me not even a little.  However, unlike most of Heinlen's books, I didn't finish this one feeling like I had figured out a little more about the world I live in, or the world I want to live in.  There are aspects of Mama Maureen I take to heart in my own life, but unlike TEFL which I quote at my friends ad naueseum and attempt to work into the way I live my day to day life, I finished To Sail Beyond the Sunset feeling oddly empty.  While I greatly enjoy the later Heinlen's, I don't enjoy when there is an Us/Them mentalitly to them.  The thing I like most about TEFL, I Will Fear No Evil, and Friday is that I can get wrapped up in the story without worrying about who wins and who loses.  To Sail Beyond the Sunset attempts the same feeling without being quite as succesful.

Having said that, I would kill to have Ira Johnson in my life, be one of Mama Maureen's children, and I'm still a hoping deep down inside to get to go travelng with Dora and Laz and Lor, and of course Lazarus.  I live by the Eleventh Commandment and try to emulate Maureen's definition of a lady at every chance, and parts of this book have stuck with me between readings as with every Heinlen novel I've ever read (and as of last week I have read every piece of fiction he ever put into a book).  I've read this book easly twenty-five times, I'm just saying it is ABSOLUTELY NOT the first or even fifth Heinlen to read, if you didn't like TEFL stop now, and be prepared to put the pre-imprinted notions of society to the side while reading this one, and expect to be a little uncomfortable if you can't
