Like the original MEN ARE FROM MARS AND WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS classic book, this is the best spinoff from that series, in my opinion; and if you want to focus on the topic of dating, then this book is even better than the classic original book.

Sometimes you will laugh out loud when you recognize the things that the author points out about dating. You will probably also read quite a few things that you will immediately recognize as doing or not doing correctly in your own dating experiences.

The author, John Gray, points out many little and big differences in how men and women think and react, and these things kind of snowball into major problems or successful relationships.

He explains 5 stages of dating through getting married: 
1. ATTRACTION--How to attract the right person, and not unwittingly turn off that person
2. UNCERTAINTY--Picking the right person and keeping them interested
3. EXCLUSIVITY--Be yourself ON YOUR BEST BEHAVIOR, and bring out the best in your partner
4. INTIMACY--How men and women react to intimacy differently, why hooking up and one night stands are retarded if you're looking for someone to marry, creating elements of lasting chemistry
5. ENGAGEMENT--different reasons why men and women decide to marry, how to prepare for a successful marriage 

This book ends at getting married, but still gives quite a few good tips about how not to goof things up after getting married, anyway. There are differences since during dating you can still bail out, but after you're married, it's til death do you part, if you're serious about marriage in the first place.

This book also explains what to do when your relationship is NOT going well, like backup to a prior stage, or how to exit gracefully.

Having the stages defined and explained, among many other aspect in this book, really helps for keeping things in perspective, and not unwittingly trashing your relationship accidentally, no matter how well-intentioned you might be.

Perhaps the best tip that has stuck in my mind the most, since reading this book years ago, is that the more time and effort that you invest in a relationship with someone who is wrong for you, the less time and effort you will have to invest in someone who is right for you. This sounds simple, but I needed to have it spelled out before it stuck in my mind, and I have applied it often since reading it in this book.

Some people really resent the concept of the FACT that there ARE natural differences between how MOST men and women think and behave, and what motivates them, and what turns them off. But there ARE differences in these categories between men and women, after all, no matter how much the gender confused people demand that there aren't any differences. 

The only thing I didn't like is his concept of allowing sex before marriage, which goes against what the Bible teaches, and weakens your long-term dating success by sleeping around. This book is not the Bible, but it is the best non-religious guide for understanding the opposite sex while dating with marriage in mind.

These days I refer to the Bible concerning improving my life and human interactions, and that is the best book, of course; but before I became a Christan in 1998, these Mar & Venus books were a huge help and influence that I applied towards life, and used to help myself and to help others get along better with the opposite sex. 

The Bible is best to learn from, of course, but these Mars & Venus books are probably the best, non-religious books about how to understand and get along with the opposite sex.
