Murder on the Orient Express by Agatha Christie

	This is one of Agatha Christie's most recognized works. Like most of her mystery works, the plot is built around detective Hercule Poirot. An uncanny sequence of events leaves Poirot on a train on route to London from Istanbul called the Orient Express. The train is forced to make an overnight stop in the middle of its tracks because a snow storm had left a pile up of snow in the upcoming tracks that disallowed the train to continue on its path. That morning, wakes up to find that Ratchett, a man to whom he had refused protection services earlier in the trip because of his reputation of being an evil man, had been stabbed to death. Poirot takes the case and is determined to solve it. As clues, he uses the many peculiar noises that had disturbed his sleep that night and things marked with names and initials that seem to have been left behind by the murderer. But Poirot later finds out that these things are only proof that Ratchett was living with a double identity, a scheme that would have be motivation enough for someone aboard the Orient Express to kill this two-faced man. Who really was this man? And what atrocity could he have committed that required him to change his name and hide his real identity? Before Detective Poirot identifies any suspects, he has to answer those questions.
 	
	 The setting, the lead up to the murder, and the never-ending twists make this the great murder mystery that it is. Christie sets up the murder to take place pretty much in the middle of nowhere but at the same time in a civil society. This gives the novel a thrilling and suspenseful ambience of being amongst a murderer in the train in the middle of a snow storm. Christie also makes this novel a page turner by giving each of the characters in the train detailed and consistent characteristics but making it possible for the characters to perform twisting unexpected behavior without losing the reliability of the author's character descriptions. Without telling the reader directly, Christie is able to instill the idea that no one on the train may be trusted. Christie makes vivid images of each scene and does not state much directly. She only narrates the character's actions and allows the reader to imply that character's characteristics. By doing this she does not throw off any suggestions at who the guilty or the innocent may be. 

	Of the three Agatha Christie novels I have read, I find Murder on the Orient Express to be the best one. When reading this I felt that I was another detective Poirot on the scene. Because all the facts and details of the plot are not stated and can only be assumed by the reader, I felt that as a reader I was to judge each event as I thought was more logical. It is really the kind of book that grabs you and will not let you go.
