After the fall of Communism, East Europeans are so anxious to become like their Western counterparts that every city and town has a Caf Europa, that is, an imitation of similar establishments such as in Paris and Berlin. The once unimaginable became reality in 1989, and for many people what was a large problem was seemingly solved; almost a decade later, however, the freedom and hope that the end of Communism in Europe had proven itself to be a superficial Western ideal has little relevance to Eastern Europe. In Caf Europa, the reader is carried from Croatia across Western Europe during the few short years since Croatia emerged from war as an independent state. Slavenka Drakulic, a Croatian-born novelist and journalist, discusses in Caf Europa, the troubles of a "freed" Eastern Europe, and the legacy that its corrupt past has left for the new Europe to deal with. 
In Caf Europa the book deals with the attitudes of Eastern Europeans for hiding and forgetting the past, thereby avoiding responsibility and missing the opportunity to learn from it. Slavenka Drakulic depicts the forgetfulness of the Eastern European past through her own mother who fears  for the sacredness of her husband's grave, marked by a communist star vulnerable to those who would destroy symbols of forty years of communism. Slavenka Drakulic states: "This is where my father's guilt meets my own - both of us have been too good at that" (159). Eastern Europeans are trying to deny a part of their history even though it exists. In addition, Slavenka Drakulic's message to the reader is that countries that lived under communism should not try to rename streets and squares in order to avoid any public recognition of historical figures whose views put them on the wrong side of today's political life; they should recognize them the way it was presented. Moreover, it is this same failure of history that forces Slavenka Drakulic to ask simplistic questions during an interview with Dinko Sakic, a nefarious concentration camp commander. Slavenka Drakulic is infuriated when, on a visit to Israel, she is barraged with questions about Croatia's fascist role during World War II: "To grow up under communism means to live forever in the present. Once the final social order had been established, there was no need to look backwards - or forwards, for that matter.... Perhaps this is the reason why we are now, with this recent war, sentenced to live in the past. Sometimes I ask myself whether this is the punishment for our lack of interest in history, for our fear, silence and irresponsibility towards ourselves. For our ignorance" (138) She realizes that Croatia as a society has failed to examine and integrate the lessons of its fascist period. In addition, Slavenka Drakulic states that this failure and stubborn forgetfulness of communism in Eastern Europe is itself the root all evil, including the new crisis and the high-tension ethnics that was evoked during 1991. She and like many other East Europeans are the product of this system and are therefore, constantly haunted by the effects of communism in present day life.
Slavenka Drakulic in Caf Europa examines how post-Communist Europe has shaped up to be nothing close to what many people, especially the Eastern Europeans, expected it to be. The glamour of the West, with its wealth and capitalistic ideals, was an enormous difference to what the reality of Eastern Europeans was. Under the rule of Communism, Eastern Europeans lived with shortages and a lower quality of life. When the Iron Curtain fell, the Eastern Europeans began to integrate the Western way of life into their own. But this transition was not easy or preferred; the end of Communist rule did not mean the end of Communist thinking, nor did it change the general worldview of many who did not easily reject their Communist past. In addition, Slavenka Drakulic mentions in the first chapter of the novel, her relentless overuse of the words "we" and "us" when she actually talks about herself: "I constantly use the pronouns `we' and `us'. When I am speaking in my everyday life I rarely do so - quite the contrary. I can see that they come to me naturally...Clearly, in the context of this book, `we' and `us' mean the people of ex-communist countries" (1). Slavenka Drakulic ponders on the subject of "we" because of its communist implication. Post-Communism in Eastern Europe still psychologically engraved the words `we' and `us' into the people which leads to the conclusion that the western concept of "I", of independence and modernity in a democratic country, is a belief still to be embraced in Eastern Europe. With the return of the past and old animosities, Eastern Europe began to move away from the path it was expected to take. Through Slavenka Drakulic's insightful writing, we learn that prosperity in Eastern Europe after the fall of Communism was not to be had after all; and now, a decade later, the East and West are still far apart from each other. The boundaries between the post-Communist countries and the West, is the resulting effects on people's feelings of freedom. Slavenka Drakulic mentions what the continent of Europe is meant to be as supposed to its current state: "Europe is not a mother who owes something to her long-neglected children; neither is she a princess one has to court. She is not a knight sent to free us, nor an apple or a cake to be enjoyed; she is not a silk dress, nor the magic word `democracy'. Most likely, Europe is what we countries, peoples, individuals - make of it for ourselves" (13). Identity is a significant aspect of everyday life and Slavenka Drakulic conveys to the reader that East European countries deserve Europe just as much as everyone else.  Even though, Slavenka Drakulic and the rest of Eastern Europe know that it will take many years for them to overcome the inheritance of the Communist era.

Furthermore, Slavenka Drakulic in Caf Europa also blames the post-Communist countries for their inability to develop like the capitalist West in Europe.  In Romania, she comments on the deplorable state in which public toilets are maintained: "The standard of Romanian toilets reflects the nature of the communist system of which it is a legacy...the absence of any improvement is...a warning for the future of democracy" (36). As mundane as it may seem, East Europeans standard of living is at a much lower quality than that of a West European. Slavenka Drakulic's argument is that since the fall of Communism, the nations in Eastern Europe still lie under the downsides of the Soviet bloc. Her native land of Croatia has gone through many changes recently and yearns to be considered part of Western Europe. However, there are still the constant humiliations of having to cross borders and have to show her Croatian passport. Slavenka Drakulic mentions her disgust towards this attitude when she states: All I know is that I cannot wait at the boarder with my new vacuum cleaner until my country becomes a member of the European Union or a real democratic country" (117). Slavenka Drakulic is appalled by the way East Europeans are treated upon entering a Western country in Europe.   The ways she and other Eastern Europeans are mistrusted is something far greater than just simply crossing a boarder. The west in Europe often feels dubious about East Europeans, as they constantly smuggle materials across the boarders. Like Slavenka Drakulic, she also faces the option of either to smuggle a vacuum cleaner to Croatia or be willing to buy it at home and pay an inflated price. The prices in Eastern Europe still remain high and therefore, people depend on smuggling goods across boarders - a failure of the "freed" Eastern Europe. Slavenka Drakulic who has the privilege of traveling a lot also picks up a thoughtful insight when visiting Bulgaria. When she visits Sofia, which is the capital of Bulgaria, she is notices that nobody smiles: "Here, receptionists, bellboys, lift attendants and waitresses do not smile, not even when you are paying the $260 a night that makes the Sheraton in Sofia probably the most expensive hotel of its kind the world" (46). To smile, in that culture, is looked at as a sign of subordination and weakness. Slavenka Drakulic further states that this is just the opposite in the United States, where everyone smiles and thanks you for your matter even though a phrase like "how are you today" does not mean that anybody really cares. In the "smiling culture" to smile is legitimate; it is legitimate to feel happy or just good, and to express it with a smile. This is definitely a failure of the post-Communist countries to grasp this idea, as it allows people in Eastern Europe to express themselves as free souls.
Slavenka Drakulic in Caf Europa: Life after Communism makes powerful relations and connections that allow the reader to see more opportunities for insights about how the people have in many ways stayed the same, and yet how the changed in Eastern Europe. Caf Europa is intended for Western Europeans to read in order to gain a deep understanding and appreciation to the Eastern European world and some of its political and social problems that face the daily life of its residents, their emotional lifestyle, and their fears and dreams.
