"In the Shadow of the Law" is not your typical legal thriller.  Most of the story surrounds the day-to-day drudgery of legal practice, which is a welcome change from the 'lawyer as James Bond' formulation used in legal thrillers. This leaves Roosevelt plenty of room to explore the characters he introduces in the novel, and the mental state brought on by interaction with the modern legal system has plenty of space to be explored. 

The characters that take center stage are the partners and associates at this powerhouse law firm. Each comes with their own baggage and methods for coping with them. The partners have devoted their life to the firm and are struggling to come to grips with the implications of that choice. Are all of the missed dinners, birthdays, and vacations worth the rewards the firm offers? Each partner comes to a different conclusion on that question. The power of the novel comes from Roosevelt's ability to make the reader feel the stress the partners go through as they answer this question and struggle -- or not in one case -- accordingly.

The associates are not yet struggling with a life that is passing them by. Instead, they are attempting to determine how they fit into a large, complex law firm and world. The reader comes to understand that each thought they had "made it" when they landed the big firm job. They have realized over time that the transition from law school to practice was a major change in their life, but it didn't change who they are. I felt as if I had shared the same feelings as these young associates, which led me to empathize and care about them in a way I couldn't with a John Grisham character. Who hasn't felt the next transition in their life would be a pinnacle -- graduation, marriage, children -- only to realize there are still many hills left to climb?

The preceding discussion of character development shouldn't give the impression that this novel has not plot. The story and character development are moved along through two cases currently confronting the firm: a pro bono death penalty appeal and a massive, class-action lawsuit against one of the firms clients. For most of the book the two cases do a good job of moving the book along and serving as catalysts for the character development. Unfortunately, the plot takes over from the character development at the end of the book. Roosevelt must have felt he needed a dramatic ending for readers to be satisfied. Instead, it left me unsatisfied and feeling as if the ending was bolted on rather than a natural conclusion to the novel
