Graham Greene presents the story of a priest and his trials and tribulations in a Mexican Socialist state where Catholicism has been outlawed, priests are executed, and the mere possession of a religious article results in imprisonment and hard labor.  In the midst of this turmoil we find a self-professed "whisky priest", the last priest in his state, on the run from authorities.  The state has turned its peasants against the church through propaganda and terror.  The current reality for the priest is one where most shun him and refuse to help.  And when he does have the opportunity to perform a religious ritual, there must be constant surveillance of the police, for once in police custody he will be shot.

Greene does a brilliant job of allowing the reader to enter the priest's innermost thoughts.  This is not a typically pious priest.  He is a drinker, a fornicator, and an absentee father.  He comes to grip with the reality that he is a "bad priest" and laments the fact that he cannot do more to help.  Indeed, he realizes that it was his pride and sense of self-importance that prevented him from leaving the hostile state.  He is filled with self-doubt and self-loathing.  Even as he awaits his execution, he never considers himself a martyr, but merely a failure who will meet God with "empty hands."

However, the priest may be too self-critical.  His religious duties and devotions are a powerful force that brings him back into harm's way when the opportunity to escape persecution is open to him.  Indeed, after an arduous journey across the rain-soaked jungle mountains into a safe state, he nevertheless journeys back into the hostile state to hear the confession of a murderer he has never met, knowing full well that this is a trap from which he will not escape.  It is this sense of duty and inevitable death that lifts the priest above the morality of the villagers and his captors.  Although he may not be a typical martyr or saint, he does hold considerable power with those he meets, although he may not realize it.  Indeed, this "whiskey priest" has changed the lives, subtly or directly, of scores of people he has encountered.

Although Greene, a devout Catholic, portrays the priest an imperfect sinner, I would not call this book anti-Catholic, as did his contemporaries in the church.  The priest is certainly not perfect, and has fathered a child, but he can still be a useful minion of God.  Greene shows that even those with weaknesses and past sins can still achieve glory in life.  Through the eyes of others, Greene shows how this self-loathing priest has done more than he could ever imagine.

Overall, this is a superb book and a fine addition to any reading list.

