This book on the life of William the Conqueror (ca 1028 - 1086 AD) was a college textbook for me. (...Which I read much longer ago than I'd care to admit.) I recently read it again, with a much greater appreciation of the quality and depth of Douglas's research and writing.

This work is a readable, well presented and interesting analysis of Duke William of Normandy's life from his early childhood as the bastard son of the murdered Duke Robert of Normandy, living precariously under the protection of various noblemen loyal to his father; through to the zenith of his career as the most powerful and successful ruler in all of Western Europe: noting the challenges he faced as he fought to maintain his position and power in his later years, and ending with his death and the impact he had upon England, France and most of the rest of Western Europe.

You will come away from readng this book with a much greater appreciation of William, and how his intelligence, courage, military and political leadership and ruthlessness enabled him to attain the pinnacle of European society and politics of the time, and forge a legacy that endures down to the present time. You will see how his success had a huge impact upon the development of Feudal society and institutions throughout Western Europe and England. You will understand the complexities of the political, social and religious institutions and relationships of the time, and will have a solid understanding of William's influence upon the leaders and personalities who helped create and lead those same institutions.

It's clear that Professor Douglas is equally comfortable with researching and explaining events and circumstances on both sides of the English Channel. He carefully avoids biasing the reader either for or against the English or French points of view on the life of this controversial man, and succeeds in providing a holistic view of William's life and the world in which he lived.

I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book a second time, and was impressed with Douglas's encyclopedic knowledge and careful use of original sources from not only in England and France, but Denmark, Germany, Rome and elsewhere in Europe. 

My one reservation about the text is the lack of maps. Near the end of the book there is good map of Normandy and another showing Normandy and England. Yet, maps would have been helpful within the main text to give more detail about spatial relationships and movements at the scenes of battles or major events. Given that the book was written about 45 years ago, having two maps would be about average for that time, so I guess I won't put too much emphasis on this point. The charts showing the familial relationships and lines of descent of the Duke and his contemporaries in France, England and Denmark, and various other appendices, were very helpful and interesting.

Any student of History looking to learn more about the life of William and other great rulers of the time, seeking to learn about development of Feudal society and culture, or interested in learning about the foundations of Anglo-Norman society and impact of the Normans upon Anglo-Saxon England (following William's victory over Harold at Hastings in 1066), will find this book to be very informative and useful. On that basis; given the quality of Douglas's writing and research; and this book's enduring reputation within this field, I have no hesitation in rating this book as 5 stars: well worth reading!
