This book should be reviewed on it's merits, irregardless of one's political persuasion.
Two facts should be cleared up before I write my review.
1) FDR inherited the Depression from the previous administration(s).
2) FDR did not start WWII, Japan did.

With that out of the way, I believe that the author did a remarkable job in laying out the groundwork leading up to FDR's first 100 days and the consequences of the "New Deal." This work was a joy to read and it spelled out the causes of the Depression in very understandable terms, which is something that I never discovered while studying this particular period of our history in college.
It made me feel like I was there at the time and his writing did not get bogged down in statistics or irrelevant side stories. "The Defining Moment" pointed out the successes of the New Deal; Social Security, the TVA, CCC, PWA, taking us off the gold standard and more stringent laws regarding investing (SEC) among other far reaching accomplishments.

The author also pointed out FDR's failures; the NRA, not enough benefits for blacks and veterans, giving up on the establishment of universal health care and his failed attempt to pack the Supreme Court with those of his political ilk. About the only problem I had with this book was too little space was devoted to the latter.

What Mr.Alter did point out, and quite successfully, is that when our nation was at it's darkest ebb, FDR did not always do what was urgently necessary, but he never gave up on attempting different approaches through the powers and logistics of our government and he did not sit idly by and let the natural forces of market economics dictate the country's path.

Above all, this book points out that FDR gave a disillusioned, defeated, down and out, frightened and angry nation: hope, action and self-respect. Except for times of war, a new revolution took place in 1933 with government playing a major role in our everyday lives.  In my opinion, this author portrayed fascinating descriptions and events of the Roosevelt adminstration and it's first 100 days aka the "New Deal."
Those who want to know what the Depression was really all about should read this book
