Bush's foreign policy can be simply summarized, as follows, "Bush will use armed forces of the United States as he determines to be necessary and appropriate...against the continuing threats possed by" any country.  Bush told West Point cadets, "We must take the battle to the enemy, disrupt his plans and confront the worst threats before they emerge."   Wolfowitz Foreign policy plan would have military power, as the central theme abandoning negotiation and "balance of power" doctrines.

Military Hawks believe military dominance is essential in restoring an image of a strong, uncontested, and powerful nation which can promote overseas democratic values.  These democratic values are shared by all nations and only oppressive governments supress and take away these values from the people. Therefore, preemptive strikes have become a plank in the National Security Strategy.  The doctrine of preemptive strike increases not decreases military tensions throughout the world.

Preemptive strikes have been opposed by the American public.  In 1981, the US publicly condemned Israel for its preemptive strike against Iran nuclear facilities in Osirak. North Korea can not be turned into a US military demonstration project.  N Korea sits in the middle of a thriving economic region near Russia, China and S Korea.   In South Korea, Seol has become an economic powerhouse (cars, industry, and consumer technology) and military action in the North would disrupt the nation.  N Korea needs education too make up for fifty years of stagnate progress; it is in a economic crisis; no natural resource, no knowledge skills, and no financial attractiviness.

For many in the N Korea, S Korea looks like the richest country in the world: high quality of life, cell phones, automobiles, and diversity of food and entertainment.   Military action is not desireable and if engaged, it would be very disruptive in an unforgivable way and bust world economics.  Business does not favor actions that cause disruptions.  So, temporization is currently the policy makers choice.  The policy maker's hope was N Korea's desparate economic conditions would force the N Korea too become more accomodating.  N Korea instead has taken a hard line defiant posture.  Sponteneous reaction did not happen.  Instead, a play for time was needed, as Powell said, "It is not a crisis".  

What was the crisis?  N Korea had violated the 1994 Nuclear Weapon agreement, in which, they promised freeze plutonium testing and weapons development.  N Korea breach of agreement leaks to the public media and admission of the violation goes public.   Shockingly, N Korea had restarted its nuclear reactors and begins making statements that they have right to violate the Nuc agreement.  The US hoped China and Russia would put pressure on N Korea too abandon their weapons program.  Not much is public about how these countries preceived N Korea actions. 

The problem with dominance is that it creates isolationism, "It is lonely at the top".  Isolationism reduces cooperation among allies and friendly nations; the European Union (France, Germany, and Russia) relationship are strained; more concerning is that many of our NATO allies have been alienated;  Russia stands with France and Germany - away from the US; and N Korea remains a security concern, too Japan and the US.  Controlling Japan is very essential.  A preemptive strike by Japan would immediate throw the world markets into chaos.  The US alone must manage the N Korean threat.   It is doubtful N Korea has long range Nucs, but in the case they did - preemptive doctrine would escalate the probability of "Hit them before they hit us".  The old doctrines of the cold war may rise up again, strength and against strength, as a false premise of deterence.  N Korea would be wise not to flinch, in such a scenerio and this game of chicken has very dangerous consequences.   

N Korea is the poor country in the world per capita.  N Korea needs a new vision for economic prosperity.  The real treachery in this scenerio is that N Korea wants to steal the wealth and prosperity from S Korea without mutual agreement. N Korea threatens nuc retaliation against S Korea, if any US military action is taken against them.  

Economic free trade is the only possible positive solution.  Bush must indoctrine N Korea on the advantages of free trade and help N Korea out of their Self Preservation mindset.  Suppose that Bush tells Kim.  "Mr Kim Jong take down that DMZ wall! And Mr Jong does it." - then a new age of hope would immediately be possible.  N Korea would start to learn capitalism and with 10 years, new wealth would be generated. Military Power is subjugated to economic power.  S Korea would be heavily burden with taxes socially too help N Korea, however, this scenerio would be more acceptable than annihilation reactions. 
