Both my wife and I tried the Slow Burn workout for about a month and I thought I'd share our experience. We're middle age and in better shape than average. We ended up switching to another workout routine but not because Slow Burn wasn't working for us "physically". It was working, but it ended up not being a good "psychological" fit for us.  

Slow Burn, the book, is good. The author lays out his case logically and makes it easy to get started. He anticipated and answered about every question we had and provided good, practical advice. The home workout described can be done with just a modest investment. As others have said, though the workout is designed to do just once a week for 30 minutes (that's what attracted us initially), if done properly it's very intense. 

The book actually lays out two different routines, one for the home with basic equipment, and one for the gym with weight machines. We worked out at home.  The first week, as suggested in the book, we did the workout 3 times to speed up the learning process, then switched to 1/week once we were comfortable with the routine and had figured out the appropriate weights. Having a partner really helped with the time-keeping for each exercise. The book recommends getting a metronome. We didn't have one but I think it would help, escpecially if working out alone. The 2nd and 3rd week sessions went well. We were left drained and wobbly but in a satisfied way. But then a few days after the 4th week session we admitted to each other we really weren't looking forward to the next workout, and agreed to make a change. 

An intense workout just 1/week sounds good, but at least in our case we learned we prefered a lower intensity routine we do more often. Maybe it has something to do with our age. As we grow older we like a daily routine more. After getting recommendations from friends and some trial and error we settled on the Joe X routine which we do each morning now. Joe X takes more time overall than Slow Burn each week but it keeps us motivated and lifts us up instead of wearing us out. We also looked at 5-Factor Fitness and Body for Life. Though we ended up doing something else, these two programs also seem good and are worth considering. I guess the point I'm making is we're all different and the physical side of fitness is only part of the issue. Like a diet, the best workout routine is probably the one that you can stick with, and it may be different than the next persons.
