My word! It seems there are plenty of pseudo-intellectuals and masculinists hanging around waiting to insult Agatha Christie's books as "sentimental," and "derivative," and prescribe a Rex Stout novel as an antidote. I understand that to the millennial reader this, and much of Christie's other work will feel pat and formulaic. Before we debate how much of the work out there follows in her footsteps, leaving her the original, let's ask ourselves what's so terrible about a book that is familiar and warm. 

There is a special way Agatha Christie captures the past. One of the things I love about her books is the view of another era. In The Mysterious Affair at Styles, we are still in the midst of the Great War. Poirot asks Cynthia about her coffee, "No sugar? You abandon it in the war-time, eh?"  All I've lived to see are the Gulf War and Iraq, and voluntary war conservation still seems terribly romantic to me. 

Over her fifty years of novel writing, we will see many things come to pass in the lives of the characters we love. Here, a young Hastings, whom we call Mr., not Captain yet, is only thirty, and has yet to meet his wife. He is simple, loyal, and a fool for a pretty girl (and, to him, nearly all girls are pretty); all things he will never quite shed, but that will develop nuance over time. 

People are very prone to criticizing British authors for their obsession with race and class, and Christie hasn't escaped those criticisms. Hercule Poirot is a comic foreigner, strange, fussy and effeminate. Um, and also smarter than everyone else. Although the modern interpretation of racism is strengthened by Christie's own admissions of not being so fond of his character, I remain uncertain, feeling this is in many ways a very anti-racist world Christie creates. Hastings, as a rough-and-ready man's man seems as much a joke. 

And here we are at Styles, where someday, ever so long from now, Poirot will solve his real last case in Curtain. In a world where everything is stuffed into two hour movies, and we've no sense of history, I find the relationship between these two men over fifty years very moving. 

In Styles, we have what has now become a classic mystery. Who poisoned the lady of the house, when each one wants her money more than the last - husband, stepsons, servants? Why doesn't anyone have any tears for a woman who supported them their entire lives? Evelyn, the assistant says "You know, Emily was a selfish old woman in her way. She was very generous, but she always wanted a return. She never let people forget what she had done for them - and, that way, she missed love."

It's not a bad debut.




