I'm 24 years old, and I thought Paul Buhle's "From the
Lower Eastside to Hollywood" was an absolute joy to
read. It not only provided a sweeping, exciting
history of the contributions of Jews and Jewishness to
the shaping of popular culture, but motivated me to
find out more about this history-- which takes on an
added fascination through Buhle's narrative. 

The book dances along, weaving back and forth between
the stories of particular characters and convergences,
and the moral impulse-- egalitarian, rebellious,
transcendental-- at the core of Jewish popular
culture. I learned many new things, and new
connections and emphases were made that had a big
impact on me. 

One of the most exciting parts of the
book was Buhle's description of the Lower East Side at
the turn of the century, a thriving nest of Jewish
immigrant life to where much of the roots of modern
popular culture can be traced (and where "[r]ebellion
was in the life's blood of creative purpose"). (On a
personal level, my great-grandparents lived on the
Lower East Side close to the time Buhle describes,
providing an added interest for me). 

Buhle emphasizes the centrality of the Yiddish language-- 
and Yiddishkayt (roughly meaning "Yiddish-ness")-- in
Jewish culture and the extent to which it trickled
into and shaped broader popular culture, as well as
the egalitarian and ethical impulses which have
permeated the Jewish contribution to popular culture.
In addition to all this, Buhle explores the
(unfortunately) neglected lineage of comics-- from the
earliest Jewish satirists to MAD magazine and Harvey
Pekar-- as a particularly Jewish art form. As an added
bonus-- and a fitting one, for an author so
passionately invested in his subject-- Buhle's story
is sprinkled with touching personal anecdotes of his
own that color in the narrative with an added human
touch. 

And there's much, much more. The history of Broadway
and Hollywood, for instance, are fascinatingly
re-discovered through the lens that Buhle uses to put
that history together, both inseparable from their
Jewish origins and ethos. 

Buhle views popular culture, and the inescapable,
omnipresent Jewish contribution to it, as expressive
of the latent yearnings of a people for something that
transcends the doldrums of alienation and atomization.
This impulse-- of mass culture "as portending
self-healing and total democratization rather than
exhaustion of resources and an endless individual
isolation"-- runs like a thread throughout the entire
book and gives it an urgency one would not expect. I
highly recommend it. 
