     There is so much anti-American sentiment worldwide that one is not surprised to find that these strident deniers of all worthwhile things traditionally American are often of the homegrown variety.  In WHY THE LEFT HATES AMERICA, Daniel J. Flynn takes the Left to task as he analyzes who they are, why they think the way they do, and what the Right can say to refute the Left's most egregious charges.  Flynn places current vitriolic hatred of America within an historical context.  He notes that those who shout the loudest are often the same ones who in the mid 1960s stormed the ivy citadels of Columbia University in their protest against the Vietnam War.  Those bearded radicals upset far more than the placid decorum of a few harried college administrators.  Over the next few decades they became the new generation of administrators and teachers.  They wrote books revamping history, taught a brand of history that focused only on America's acknowledged blighted past and carefully overlooked an unacknowledged glory filled record of achievement.  Flynn notes that the trend toward anti-American thought began with the early Communist converts of this country in the mid 1920s. It was not difficult for these converts to attract the leaders of a series of oppressed minorities to their cause: W. E. B.  DuBois, Paul Robeson, and Lincoln Steffens. With the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the race toward finishing the job begun by DuBois, Robeson, and Steffens accelerated.  I seem to recall that it was only then that I began to read about a new source of blame America first; the Frankfurt School of Max Horkheimer, Erich Fromm, Theodor Adorno, and Georg Lukacs revamped their then debunked Critical Theory to criticize American culture from top to bottom.  Flynn does a thorough job of connecting the ideological dots between the early Communists, the later neo-Communists, and the born again Critical Theorists, all of whom made it clear that in the contest between literal truth and inflexible ideology it must be the latter that had to triumph.  In fact, a central tenet of Flynn's book is that nearly all of those who shout out that the United States is to blame for all of the world's real and imagined ills share the common belief that any rumor or discredited theory that vindicates their core beliefs must be accepted as literal truth, regardless of hard evidence to the contrary.  The reverse is also true; any proven fact that contradicts their core beliefs is either conveniently ignored or-what can only be seen as a colossal gall-that such evidence is admitted to be true but still does not discredit those beliefs.

	The most fascinating part of Flynn's book is his chapter on The Five Big Lies:
Myth #1: American women live under a patriarchy
Myth #2: America is the world's leading threat to the environment
Myth #3: America is a racist nation 
Myth #4: The United States is an imperial power
Myth #5: The rich get richer, the poor get poorer
	Flynn examines each of these in turn since the typical anti-American sentiment most often involves one or more such charges.  Flynn debunks each one not by denying America never suffered from any of them, but by noting that America now looks pretty good in comparison with the rest of the world.  Ultimately, Flynn defends America not by claiming that it is some impossibly perfect utopia, but by pointing out that there must be a reason why so many third world inhabitants suffer greatly to arrive here, rather than indulge in the reverse. For those who wonder why the extreme Left fringe of the Democratic Party truly hates America in general and George Bush in particular, Flynn's book is a good place to begin. 
