This is a wondrous work, wherein Haught truly presents a theology of evolution.  He doesn't show that evolution is consistent with the Bible- rather that the kind of God we read of in the Bible would *have* to create with evolution.  And that modern materialistic philosophy can in no way answer for evolution- in fact, alone, Christianity is the belief system that most fits with evolutionary biology.

Haught uses a wealth of authors, some more well known than others, both biologists and theologians.  He redeems process theology and shows how it fits with the Bible.  He grapples with the best of Gould and presents a way that the magisterium of religion and science *should* mix, while still having their boundaries.

Every year I present evolution in my biology class, to students from Christian and Muslim backgrounds, and receive acrimony from parents and students alike.  To try to assuage the hostility, I teach a day of philosophical approaches to evolution, to indicate that there are many ways to approach this controversial topic, and the students need to talk with their parents about what the best way is for them personally.  This book is causing me to rewrite my class presentation of the philosophy of evolution.  No longer will I break it up into Theistic, Deistic, and Atheistic approaches.  Haught makes a very convincing case for three approaches of Opposition, Separatism, and Engagement.  Ironically, the materialistic atheists and the literal creationists are both in the same camp of opposition.  Separatism is the belief that both science and religion teach different sides of the same coin- something I have found myself on in the past.  But I have long wanted to move more towards Engagement- looking at how evolution would influence the idea of God.  After all, if God made the world this way, as all science indicates, then that should tell us something about God- as Romans 1.20 indicates.

Haught provides a way for us to understand God through evolution- but specifically Jesus Christ in God.  It is the theology of kenosis, central to the Christian belief, that is most fully formed in evolution (outside the Incarnation); it is this theology which best philosophically explains evolution.  It is a God who loves enough to step back and allow for that which He loves the freedom to come to Him, in true Love, that causes evolution.  It is a God who opens the doors to possibilities.  This is a God who pours Himself out, who took the form of a servant, who became a human and part of His creation, who died, who is willing to be humble, who is willing to love and to risk losing the ones He loves, who is willing to love and have people turn against Him.  What kind of world would this kind of God create?  Haught argues a world with suffering, with change, always in the process of creation, and therefore not yet perfect, a world that can be changed, is changing, and the creation participating in the creation of itself.  It is a God of the Future, and not the present only, or the past only.  A God, as witnessed throughout the Bible, of Hope, expecting new things.  Behold, He makes all things new.

This isn't Deism, for God is very involved, and emotionally moved by what is happening, and participating in the suffering of His creation.  Nor is this trying to step into science.  There is no reason, from a scientific perspective, why evolution has to posit the existence of a God, or His nonexistence.  But the moment we ask, "Why would such a world have been allowed to evolve?"- when we ask the why questions, then we move into theology.  And neither materialistic evolution nor traditional "Intelligent Design" theory answer this question adequately- they both ignore the question in much the same way.  ID Theory looks only at the great complexity of certain problems, without answering the awkward byzantine questions of awfulness in creation.  The problem of evil in nature is nothing new- evolution just brings it out much more clearly.  Haught argues the answer is in understanding the character of a God who suffers with his creation, and is willing to see his creation suffer in order to change into something greater, without dictating the creation be as He sees it should be, as if it were merely an extension of him rather than something separate. 

Where is God then in the evolutionary process?  Haught suggests within information, at all levels- something not defined by science, and not explained by evolutionary theory.  And so God loves all his creation.  I loved the novel idea that God loves the atoms of the rocks as well as us.  Yes, I think He loves me more, but all of his creation is his sons and daughters, for He made it.  All is in the process of forming.  And perhaps, he loves those atoms of rocks because one day the will be (or have been) part of a creation that is more capable of recognizing his wonder and brilliance.  All creation worships Him, the Psalmist says.  A rock is best at it's worship when it is fully rockish.  Which isn't hard for a rock.  But we worship all the more, for we do it fully willingly, and knowingly.  Or we can.  And so are loved all the more for it.

But the presence of God is where the book begins to break down.  It is in the end a bit too Deistic for me, still.  While I don't think Haught argues in any way for Deism, I don't think he fully answers the presence of God.  There seems to be little place for the miraculous in his explanations.  If this is a God of Kenosis, as seen in the Incarnation, than He is and always was a God of Kenosis, pouring Himself out in suffering for His creation.  But also if He was a God of the miraculous in the Incarnation, than He always was a God of the miraculous.  In the end, Haught remains too far on the side of Arminianism for me.  Yes, God allows His creation to proceed of it's own will- but at the same time, His will is constantly working to shape all things.  In the doctrine of Augustinian predestination, this in no way denies the free realm of chance, for the two happen simultaneously.  This is supported by Haught's argument that God is beyond time and ahead in Time.  Haught's position is that God is present throughout in feeling, but not as actively working as I would like.  He is hoping in the future.  But what is He hoping in?  Were He to hope in anything but Himself, then He Himself would commit idolatry, God forbid.  But then He can not hope in chance, or in the creation that He Himself made through the process of natural selection- rather, He must hope in his continual actions in that same creation.

Additionally, Haught is kind of confusing towards the end, where he goes off on some tangents on the presence of the subjective, and other authors' thoughts on it, without ever defining what the subjective is.  And the idea of how original sin entered the world is not well answered.  Naturally, Haught posits, like C.S. Lewis, that the two Genesis stories are myth.  But he then puts the idea of a perfect world, central to the Truth of the myth, as something that never existed, except in the realm of the Perfect Ideal.  Edwards does a better job of answering this issue in The God of Evolution.

Much of the second half of the book is epistemology, which I ironically find very hard to understand, above all the forms of philosophy.  That made for slow reading- but that's my fault.

I think the greatest aspect of this book is Hope.  Not merely hope that we can reconcile evolution and Christianity.  That's there- but that's only a slim part of it.  It is the idea of possibility, the presentness of something pregnant.  Not a wish for the Real- but real Hope, that there will be something coming that is greater than what we have now.  This is God's great desire for us.  This is the witness of the entire Old and New Testaments.  We are going someplace greater on this plan for the future.  What it will be, we don't know.  It is the excitement of the Future that we gain from the God of the Future, He who is the Future, pulling us into a new realm.  He began this eons ago, and continues now, and will present something New, in creatio originalis, creatio continua, and creatio nova
