Isoptera
 
Did you know that me and my kind outweigh humans on Earth? My queen can lay an egg every 15 seconds and can live for 15 to 25 years! Did you know I can cause over 5 billion dollars in damages to U.S. homes each year? In early January in the south, or around May or June in the north, we swarm in thousands. I can chew through lead, asphalt, plaster, or mortar to find food.
 
What am I?
 
The Soul of the White Ant was written by Eugène Nielen Marais before the early thirties. At the time, little was known about termite species and many lacked the knowledge. Marais was a South African naturalist which focused his interest in writing, poetry, and law. He is remembered by the South Africans for his contribution to Afrikaan literature rather than his research on termites. Marais came into termites when he abandoned his law practice and retreated to a mountaineous area northwest of Pretoria. It was here where he observed and studied the termites. His work was previously stolen because he was so determined to write in Afrikaans. He refused to translate his work into English and as a result, he also lost his credit for his research. While some of the content is outdated, he speculated many interesting theories such as those termites are super-organisms.

Marais's writing style is very interesting. He writes in layman's terms which make the information comprehensible to a larger demographic including those with no prior entomology education. He often illustrates how ants and termites live and interact from the perspective of the termite/ant. 

 
While observing the natural behaviour of these creatures, he noticed that the entire termite nest had to be considered as a single organism whose organs work like those of a human being. Marais concluded that all members of the colony, and the terminary itself, form what is essentially a single living organism. I disagree with how he perceives this. While it is very true that each individual is vital for the existence of the termitary as a whole, I do not see it as a body because termites can give rise to new termitaries whereas a body can not be divided and reproduced to form new body parts. In the opening chapter, Marais tells us that after the termites are physically ready to start a new generation, it is equipped with wings to fly away from it the termitary and begin a termatary of its own. It is here in flight where a termite can travel many kilometers or maybe less than one where he spots a termite queen which too has flown away from her old home to start a new generation of terminary. 
 
The various castes in the society have the functions of the body's organs, with fungus gardens constituting the digestive tract. The soldiers and workers are like the cells of the blood stream, while the queen is the brain and reproductive organs.

The Soul of the White Ant illustrates the description of a termites' life cycle. He also describes three different types of termites, the psyche of termites, the birth of the termitary, and the symbiosis with fungus. The book examines and talks about the psychological make up of termites and compares the observed behaviors in termites to that in humans. The community of termites is also compared to the physical make up of humans. The queen is equivalent to the human brain which takes control. The two different type of termites found in the nest are compared to the human red and white blood cells where Marais so terms "the corpuscles". One is for defense and protection against invasion of the termite nest and the other is for repair and rebuilding of the tunnels and passageways. He stresses that an ant alone is nothing but together, all the ants make up one organism. Like that in a human being, a cell itself is useless but when assembled properly, it becomes a functional piece of machinery. 

I would recommend this book to anyone who has an interest for sciences. Because Marais has written so many stories in his lifetime, his work is very easy to comprehend. This is not a scientific book where one can reference materials, but however a lot can be learned from reading his work. Keep in mind also that Marais was never an entomologist nor was he was a scientist. His story is captivating and very much informative. All the research that he has integrated into the story has been well written. I love how he always tells the reader another story or gives an example of another organism to have the reader deduce what is actually going on. I find this to be very interesting because it kept my interest in the book. Like that of bees, Marais demonstrated that once the queen is destroyed, the entire termitary ceases to function. This reinforces Marais's theory that the termites are a composite animal. Without the queen's signals, the community is dead. His idea of termites being a super-organism is simply phenomenal.
My initial interests were in ants. After reading The Soul of the White Ant, Marais has encouraged me to look into other insects like the tiki tiki beetle or bees and see what common lifestyles these beautiful organisms share. It also motivates me to believe that it does not take a specialist to accomplish anything. One who has a fondness for something can achieve just as much as a specialist like Marais.  

 
