Princess Academy by Shannon Hale is a timeless tale about how hard life can be. It is a fictional book with a pinch of humor and childish romance. But it also has touches of sadness and bitter sweet hopes, dreams, and beliefs. When the story begins, Miri, the pretty, brave, and petite main character, is in her village on Mount Eskel. She longs to work in the quarry like other children her age. At the same time she struggles between her wish to see things beyond the village and the desire to understand her father's grieving. This adventurous girl may just get her chance.

I really enjoyed this book. The perspective you see is that of a young girl in her early teens, who strives to be like other girls on the mountain. The book talks a lot about how she feels about different things. You start to feel what she feels and begin to understand her point of view. It makes you believe you are this wonderful, creative girl. You can really think like this girl quite easily, without even trying to imagine it.

Another reason I like it is because it's not like other princess stories. Miri had never imagined what life would be like if she married a prince. She doesn't have an evil relative. She also doesn't have anyone to help her through hard times, like a fairy godmother. It's nothing like Snow White or Cinderella, that's for sure. 

I think that Shannon Hale used very good details. You could really picture everything that was happening. When she describes the academy, she writes `polished linder had been laid as the foundation'. She also writes `Three stairs led to the main door and columns supporting a carved pediment'. Those are just some of the sentences full of description.

The last reason why I enjoyed this book that I'm going to share with you is: the surprises. It's impossible that you would get bored with this book. At every corner you turn, there is something new awaiting you. There is always something thrilling to find out about the characters. This story is just a bundle of surprises.

Will Miri ever be like other girls? Will she finally get to the bottom of her father's grieving? Will she get to see things beyond the village? Will she ever get to work in the quarry? Will Miri's story out to be happily ever after? You'll have to read the book to find out!
