The one thing I have noticed about the majority (not all) of the negative reviews is that they don't address the exhaustive amount of collected evidence in this book.  Instead, they attempt to smear the author, the current President, anyone associated with ideas contrary to their own.  But the author here presents an incredible amount of research that is footnoted and referenced, and if readers care to, can verify on their own.  I had questions on some sections of this book, and used the references in the back to do my own research.  While some evidence can indeed be interpreted in different ways - the majority is straightforward and overwhelmingly supports the author's conclusions.  It's sad to see the level of discourse, especially over books like this, reduced to childish name-calling and rants that have absolutely nothing to do with the contents of this material.

Miniter presents a startling story of political expedience that put Americans and the world at greater danger and led to numerous deaths and injuries that could have been prevented.  Obviously, those responsible are more than just a single man in the office of the President.  Clinton suffered from extremely poor advice from unexperienced political appointees who were more interested in winning elections and securing a 'legacy' than in the important job of protecting the citizenry.  And as one reviewer noted, the attacks that followed Clinton's inauguration were partly the fault of the Bush Sr. administration as well.

Rather than being a 'hatchet job' on a single administration, as some have put it, this book points to a greater failure of intelligence agencies and political officials who failed to do all they could to protect the people they are sworn to.  Clinton's administration, while not fully culpable for all terrorist attacks in the last 20 years, did exacerbate the problem and contribute to the inaction that led to the tragedy of September 11th.  This book hilights those failures and shows the path that Osama bin Laden traveled to bring the worst attack on American soil in history.

Readers of this book are presented with the story that shows the difference between administrations and how they handle crises that makes this reader truly greatful for the outcome of the 2000 election.

This book is a must read for those who want to uncover the truth of how 9/11 came to pass, and what we MUST do to avoid similar attacks in the future.  Eight years of escalating terrorist attacks, compared to the absence of attacks in the US in the last 4 shows that hopefully, the political structure has learned the lessons of previous failures
