I have a big ole head.  A big, swelled, I-know-more-children's-books-than-Leonard-S-Marcus type head.  I think I'm pretty hot stuff when it comes to kiddie lit and I defy anyone to tell me different.  Problem is, I'm not that hot.  More lukewarm really.  And I remember this fact when I read books like "Day of Tears".  For all my boasts and brags, I had never read a Julius Lester novel until now.  Oh I'd read plenty of his picture books and his folktales as well.  And he's certainly written enough novellas in his time.  There was "When Dad Killed Mom" and "To Be a Slave" and something called "The Autobiography of God".  After hearing a variety of different people squawking over the brilliance of his "Day of Tears", however, I finally got around to reading him.  With the same clear concise voice used to such advantage in tales like "The Old African", Lester turns his sights on a little remarked historical moment in time and the repercussions that have reverberated ever since.
	
Says the Author's Note of this story, "On March 2 and 3, 1859, the largest auction of slaves in American history took place in Savannah, Georgia".  This is their story.  The owner of these slaves, one Pierce Butler, has been brought low by his own addiction to gambling.  He and his wife divorced many years ago (a rarity but based on the truth) and he has the custody of both of his daughters.  Amongst his slaves he counts the family of Will, Mattie, and their daughter Emma.  Emma is only twelve but she's always been beloved of Mr. Butler's girls and they look upon her as a kind of replacement guardian.  On the first day of the auction families are broken up, lives destroyed, and the rain falls in torrents.  "This ain't rain", says Mattie.  "This is God's tears".  On the second day, Mr. Butler succumbs to his own greed and sells off Emma without allowing her parents even the chance to say a final farewell.  The book follows her journey from slave to escapee, and finally as a free citizen of Canada.  We meet the slave auctioneer, a member of the Underground Railroad, various slaveholders, and everyone in this book has a chance to spout his or her opinions.  The slave narrative has been personal before, but rarely has it ever cut this close to the bone.
	
What Lester excels at is the feeling of righteousness everyone carries to some degree.  No matter what the horrific thing one person is perpetuating on another is, everyone feels that their actions are so very very right.  Their justifications are beautifully portrayed here and will obviously confuse those child readers that expect their books to contain two-dimensional villains and perfectly upright heroes.  Everyone has their own way of thinking.  When Emma escapes from a woman widely regarded as a "good" master, the woman retaliates by selling off all her slaves to a man noted far and wide for his cruelty.  She then views this "inevitable" step as Emma's fault.  There's also a fair share of Uncle Toms and broken marriages in the book.  Lester takes all of this and makes it child friendly, but never dilutes the horror so much that it feels fake or flimsy.  Honesty is the name of the game here.
	
When I saw that the book was written in the form of (as the cover calls it) "a novel in dialogue", I was instantly reminded of another Civil War era title, "Bull Run" by Paul Fleischman.  The two books complement one another nicely.  "Day of Tears" is the precursor, showing the horrors that necessitated the Civil War and "Bull Run" shows the consequences of that action.  Both are written in the first person and would do well as staged productions by children or teens.  Even without such fancy theatrics though "Day of Tears" is worthy reading in and of itself.  If you've a child who has to read a piece of historical fiction, this would be an ideal choice.  It may look like 176 pages but the dialogue format renders it a relatively quick and undoubtedly interesting read.  A worthy addition to any library
