When London reporter Edward Malone is spurned by his beloved Gladys for not being "manly", he seeks to prove his valor by signing onto an expedition with the eccentric Professor George Edward Challenger.  Challenger, a zoologist, is notorious among British naturalists as an evil-tempered, arrogant nut.  For it is Challenger's contention that on a plateau in South America, animals long thought extinct, including dinosaurs, still thrive.  

Most people know Arthur Conan Doyle as the creator of Sherlock Holmes.  However, thanks to Michael Crichton's homage, many people are familiar with Doyle's first Professor Challenger novel, "The Lost World."  In this novel, Doyle was clearly seeking to distance himself from his most famous character, creating a more fantastic world, as well as creating a protagonist built on volatile emotion as he is on reason.

"The Lost World" is in many ways typical of turn-of-the-century English science-fiction.  The team of explorers is generally archetypal, including the Challenger's crotchety opponent Professor Summerlee, the sportsman Lord John Roxton, the bull-headed Challenger, and the self-conscious Malone.  The plot runs on a serious of thrills and contrivances, as the heroes discover the plateau, but are stranded their by vindictive natives.  While in this lost world, they encounter various dinosaurs (from the Jurassic period), primitive ape-men, and modern Indians.  Each adventure is harrowing and stirring, as they are attacked by pterodactyls, allosaurs, and the ape-men.  

Naturally, there are aspects of the book that will seem dated.  Our knowledge of dinosaurs has expanded in the century since this book was published.  Further, certain condescending attitudes are expressed about race and gender.  Finally, while Doyle had a better ear for dialog than some of his contemporaries, much of his dialog is still fairly stilted.  

That having been said, the book is thoroughly enjoyable beyond its status as an artifact.  While Challenger never overshadowed Holmes as Doyle had intended, the character has found his own niche in science-fiction.  "The Lost World" is an important work in speculative fiction, entertaining and surprisingly timeless.
