"Got my mo-jo workin' but it just won't work on you.
Got my mo-jo workin', but it just won't work on you
I wan-na love you so bad
I don't know what to do
Got my mo-jo workin'..."
-- By McKinley Morganfield, Blues Composer/Singer

Blues songwriters in the African-American culture coined the term mojo, it means casting spells to gain someone's affection.  In McKinley Morganfield's song, he used a love potion to obtain love from a particular woman, but it didn't work.  According to Stephanie Rose Bird, writer, educator, visionary artist and contemporary root worker, by working roots on that woman he should have had her in his arms that night.
  
I love the style in which FOUR SEASONS OF MOJO is written.  Bird divides each section by season and highlights specific holidays of several cultures.  She illustrates the time of the season and the affect it has on our mood and behavior.  Respective holidays require certain herbs coupled with specific tools and equipment to communicate definition, significance and continuity with society-at-large.  She shares an eclectic wealth of information that is sometimes overwhelming to a neophyte, yet people still derive a connection with other cultures.   

Her approach to the world of mojo is like taking a Home Economics class.  One does not start cooking a meal without first choosing the appropriate meal for the occasion, the exact tools and an awareness of their purpose in preparing the meal to get the desired results.  The author provides stories and recipes from other cultures to enlighten the reader and to promote research of the new recipes.   

I applaud Bird for acknowledging the validity of "nature's prescriptions" in contemporary society.  She has joined the ranks of others to remove the shame of being "natural" by educating herself in the art of being an herbalist.  Her guide has shown that in the African-American culture, as other cultures, we share a bond with the earth and nature.  

Lana Hooks
for The RAWSISTAZ Reviewer
