margaret feinberg has written an excellent book, what the heck am i going to do with my life? it is geared toward those in their 20s who are asking that exact question, or some similar paraphrase.

i found margaret's writing to be very accessible and clear. the book's chapters each deal with one main concept, such as "calling: what pulls you?" and "impact: will it live beyond you?" i should note that the book is written from a christian worldview. if you don't share such, you'll probably still find it to be a worthwhile read, but differing worldviews may keep it from being as helpful as it will be for others.

there are two general aspects of the book that i found most useful. first, every chapter ends with a series of questions to think through. in some chapters there are also questions interspersed in the middle so you have the opportunity to think about things before the ideas begin to fade from your mind. there's even space to write out answers if you are so inclined. but even if you're not, i would recommend taking time to slowly think through the questions and not just breeze by them. they are well thought out and align very well with that chapter's topic. there is also a section of group discussion questions in the back.

second, there are various sidebars interjected throughout the book. they are sometimes just lists of ideas to think about, examples of what's being written about at that point, small self-assessment questionnaires, etc. again, i find them helpful in thinking more deeply about what the chapter is saying, staying better engaged (if you're prone to mental wanderings like i am), and actually understanding and trying to apply what margaret has written about.

overall, i highly recommend this book to anyone in their 20s or early 30s who is asking questions about life and the world, who wants to make a difference and isn't sure they are, who can't figure out how they're going to keep going for another 20 or 50 years, or anywhere in between. it doesn't have a lot of answers, which is good because we're each different, but it lays a foundation to think about such things more clearly and helps you ask and answer questions that will help you to make a few steps toward a more fulfilling, meaningful life
