Jefferson is of course an icon of our founding. This book sketches his life from birth to death focusing on those aspects that pertain to establishing the nation's political identity. Also, despite its brevity, the ambiguities of Jefferson are not ignored. Jefferson was a slave-owning aristocrat, yet he championed liberty for all people, at least in theory. However, Jefferson could not bridge the racial divide and he was hardly an advocate of any significant democratization of social and political affairs. His relationship, or lack thereof, with Sally Hennings, a household slave of Jefferson's, is mentioned several times (too often actually) with no hard conclusions drawn. If a brief, yet somewhat comprehensive, biography of Jefferson was needed, this book is a fine contribution.

What is obvious is that Jefferson and others constructed a basic, raw framework for a nation and its government. But in Jefferson's lifetime alone, the operation and even the distribution of power within government was an evolving process. In addition, much to Jefferson's dismay, American life was beginning to change from being mostly an agrarian society of small producers. It would be interesting to see a Jeffersonian scholar speculate as to the possibility of Jefferson understanding and accepting the vast changes in American society over the last two hundred years. Would the vast private power of corporations in an industrial society be of concern? What would he prescribe to countervail that power? Would he have accepted gender and racial equality?

One has to wonder about the legitimacy of directly invoking Jefferson to support positions on either the right or the left in today's complex society. Jefferson, like anyone else, was a man of his times, constructing ideas and dealing with issues in that context. What is really interesting is that Jefferson strongly suggested that the Constitution be rewritten every nineteen years. He seems to have known what we do not: that documents written to govern the affairs of men are not so sacred as to be untouchable. It makes the strict constructionists of our era appear to be silly. In reading this book, it is obvious that this nation has benefited greatly from a group of very insightful men from the eighteenth century. One would hope that similar wisdom can find a voice in a world where ideas have to compete with sophisticated public relations and propaganda of many forms. 
