This book Bull Run is about different people, telling their story about the same subject, war. There are many characters in this book, even though they are not the real people, they are based on the real people, and what happened to them during this time of war. These people are either Northerners or Southerners, and you will be able to tell when you start to read. 
Bull Run is a novel of different events, and the life of others, and what it is like for them in this time of war. This book is a novel of happiness, sadness, good times, and bad times. 
You will find that this book is very amusing and very interesting. You will be able to relate yourself and others to these characters. These characters are just like us. Some are very funny, while others are just normal every day people. For me, the type of person I am, I think that Bull Run is a very funny book. I especially like the way they use their expressions, when something funny or bad happens. 
 The characters are very thorough, and descriptive when they tell their story. They are also very convincing, and will make you want to read more as you go through the book.
Through this story many things happen, like at the beginning it starts out with "The booming jerked me out of my sleep". That is very expressive, and gives the reader an idea of what's going to happen next. All of the characters tell about what's happening around them wherever they are. 
My favorite character is Charlotte King. She tells it like it is. She is very outspoken, and is not afraid to say what she wants. I can relate to one of the characters, Shem Suggs, with my friend Amber. They both are horse lovers, and the horses have been there for them when they needed a friend.
There are sixteen characters in this story and not one of them is at all boring. If your a person who likes adventure, I would soooo recommend this book for you to read. I also recommend this book for people interested in wars, because this is what the book is mostly about. If your a loving and caring person, this would be a great book to read, because this book has a lot of different emotions to each character and loving and caring is one of them. 
If I chose a book to be my favorite, this would be the one I would chose, because it is a book that many people can relate to, and not have a problem about understanding what they are trying to share with others about what war was like for people in those days.
I cant spoil the ending or any of the story, So if you want to know what happens in the book, you will have to find out by reading it. This book will have an impact on your life like it did mine. This impacted my life on a different prospective of how war is now, and how it was for people back in the days
