There are two levels of narrative at work in author Michael Lewis' comprehensive, intriguing book on offensive football strategy today - a personal account of triumph over the odds for a particular player and the broader story of what gave the player the opportunity to succeed in the game. The latter is obviously directed to the Monday morning quarterbacks who have seen the gradual evolution of the left tackle from a faceless offensive lineman to one of the most valued players in the game. The author sees how it began with the New York Giants' Lawrence Taylor when he was drafted in 1981 as the #2 pick.

A foreboding presence on the field, Taylor had a career-defining moment when he sacked Washington Redskins' Joe Theismann so hard in 1985 that the resulting compound fracture to Theismann's right leg led to his early retirement from active play. With battle lines now redrawn, college and professional teams needed to figure out how best to protect the starting quarterback from similar injury. According to Lewis, the left tackle started to become an even more pivotal position since he protects the quarterback's blind side and usually possesses the footwork and agility necessary to counteract the pass rush of defensive ends. Ensuring the starting quarterback makes it to the play-offs is the number one priority for a team, and the left tackle makes that happen.

The second story is actually the more interesting of the two because Lewis chronicles the manifestation of this mindset to recruiting and how six-foot-six, 300-plus pound Michael Oher from Memphis was plucked out of destitution to become the starting left tackle at Ole Miss. As the son of a drug-addicted mother and an absentee father, Oher was an illiterate teen scraping by in a housing project until family acquaintances Sean and Leigh Ann Touhy took him in, helped him graduate from high school and set the path for Oher to become a legitimate recruit for the colleges in the region. What's most intriguing about Lewis' account is the excessive indulgence shown by the school coaches and the various college football programs, among them Tennessee and LSU, in accommodating Oher to join them. The evolution of the left tackle seems like an idiosyncratic area to place his focus, but Lewis makes this a compelling read, even for those of us who don't follow football religiously
