Often the pleasure of reading first novels by noted authors is twigging onto vague themes and stylistic ideas explored with greater success in more mature works to come. But this, Evelyn Waugh's first novel published in 1928, has no youthful awkwardness to shed. It is a fully accomplished work that may as well be a novice's introduction to Waugh for the way it distills his uniquely sardonic, misanthropic style.

Paul Pennyfeather is an Oxford divinity student who comes to grief when some upper-class twits steal his trousers and get him expelled. With nowhere else to go, he accepts a teaching post at a Welsh boarding school, Llanabba, which caters to the problem children of the rich. It's not what you teach the children that's important, insists Llanabba's master, Dr. Fagan, but having what he calls "tone."

"Decline And Fall" has tone, too, a bloody whole lot of it. Waugh's depiction of the boarding school and its Welsh surroundings are presented in a series of deft one-liners offset only by delightfully meandering physical descriptions and a tortured tale worthy of Michael Palin's "Ripping Yarns" which raises the bar of comedic misery with every page.

At one point, the school decides to put on an impromptu field day to impress some VIP parents. Having not bothered to acquire hurdles or other track gear to speak of, the boys are lined up and told to run at the sound of the starting gun. This is done with a real gun, by an inebriated teacher who manages to shoot one of the titled youngsters in the foot.

"I knew that was going to happen," sighs the stricken boy's noble father.

"A most unfortunate beginning," comments Dr. Fagan.

"First blood to me!" cries the drunken teacher.

Waugh is very much in his element already here. You have here the foibles of airhead aristocrats, socially-correct men whose standards of civility make them easy prey for the fairer sex, and quasi-religious concerns expressed by those of little faith for whom Waugh had the clearest contempt.

"Once granted the first step, I can see that everything else follows - Tower of Babel, Babylonian captivity, Incarnation, Church, bishops, incense, everything - but what I couldn't see, and what I can't see now, is WHY did it all begin?" a would-be Anglican cleric tells Pennyfeather. Asking his bishop was no help, "he didn't think the point really arose as far as my practical duties as a parish priest were concerned."

Pennyfeather himself is very much in league with other Waugh protagonists, like Tony Last in "Handful Of Dust" and William Boot in "Scoop." He initiates nothing; instead things keep happening to him. He's accurately described at one point as a person "meant to stay in the seats" rather than risk a hard fall by getting too close to life's spinning axle.

Waugh's treatment of a black character in the book is off-putting, as other reviewers here note, though it should be added that the Welsh, "the only nation in the world that has produced no graphic or plastic art...they just sing...," come in for harsher scorn. The real weakness of the book as I see it comes when Pennyfeather leaves the school and takes up with a flighty noblewoman with a suspicious sideline. It's not a bad detour, in many ways the subplot is quite good, but Llanabba is the heart and soul of this book, and the farther away the novel moves from that, the weaker it becomes.

Yes, Waugh did mature and write deeper works in time. But his touch was never as sure, or his comic eye as sharp, as it is here
