Series of Unfortunate Events Book #2 the Reptile Room 
By: Lemony Snicket
The Book Series of Unfortunate Events Book 2 the Reptile Room By: Lemony Snicket, was about 3 orphans called the Baudelaire's. The oldest is called Violet she loves to invent things. The middle child was Klaus, he loved to read books, and Sunny was the youngest she was teething so biting was her favorite thing to do. Their parents had died in a terrible fire and they had gone to live with count Olaf who was after their enormous fortune. They realized he was evil. So they went to live with there uncle, his name was Montgomery Montgomery yes his first name was the same as his last. The person who was managing them and their money was Mr. Poe. He dropped them off and said he'd be back with the bags in a few days. Uncle Monty had a love for snakes, he wanted to take the Baudelaire's to Peru, so he hired an assistant named Stephano, He looked a lot like Count Olaf. After a week or so there they realized they did not totally like Stephano so the ripped up his ticket. A few days later they found uncle Monty dead, Stephano aka. Count Olaf grabbed the kids and were on there way to Peru when they bumped into Mr. Poe, and realized Stephano was count Olaf, and were taken away by Mr. Poe.
This book was very exiting to read there was always something going on, right as you thought it was going to be boring it got interesting. Around the middle of the book I felt like I was actually in the book because there was so much interesting things I got very attached.The conflict in this book was different than most other books, It was stephano and the orphans both hated eachother, so there was always tons of action going on and I liked it. Lemony snicket was very descriptive about his charcters it is very easy to picture them in your head and they seemed very realistic because they had traits just like a regular person. The books ending was alittle satisfying and unsatifying because the ending was the same as all the other books Ive read in this series but it was satisfying because the orphans got away safely. 
The authors voice is very good he describes things very clearly and very well, they are also very easy to understand. The author uses vocabulary in an interesting way because, he will pause the story for a second and define the word, that makes the words easy to understand and easier to follow. Some characteristics about the author arehow he defines words like I said already, and something bad always happens that you can never figure out. The author always uses dialogue, description and tone on almost every page. Overall he writes very different than all other authors.
I would rate this on a scale of 10, a 7. Because even though it was very good I thought this one was a little more boring than than others in the series because I am not a huge reptile fan. If you like reptiles this is your book. I would definitely recommend this book to reptile lovers and anyone that just wants a good mystery.
This book can be very interesting or it may not. Even though I'm not a huge reptile fan I still thought it was pretty good and anyone would probably like it. This book is worth it.
