Desert Sons and its sequel Into this World We're Thrown are excellent books. I was totally drawn into the two main characters, seeing what they saw, feeling what they felt, being in the desert with them, loving with them. These books are about budding Love and budding sexuality, self-discovery and growth,  and struggling with "coming-out" (with being Gay) to themselves and to others. These books are about young people dealing with real life problems of mental health, coping, grief, anger, rejection, teenage suicide, sexual abuse, denial, and so on.  The author quickly brought me into a desert town, connecting me with all of the characters.  For a short while, I was able to replace my own traumatic teenage years, with the story spun by this author.  The author has a good understanding of of how a young mind works and develops, and a deep understanding of what it is like growing-up gay. This is indeed "a great coming out and finding your way in the world book".  I do not understand why anyone would describe the characters as superficial and staged, the dialog as corny, behavior which is unbelievable, and scenes as ridiculous.  Teenagers do not always think and behave as you would expect in an adult.  The opposing "thought verses behavior" is typical of a teenager, as well as confusion and uncertainty, lack of experience in handling problems, and self-centered behavior, all of which are part of growing-up.  These characters are believable, the plot line is believable and true to real life.  Some have complained about the quantity of sex in the books. But I felt that the tone and quantity of sex fit naturally into the basic truth of what the relationship would be like, given the parameters set by the author, and real life. This author paints vibrant and detailed descriptions, without being boring.  The only disappointment I felt was when I got to "The End" and did not want the experience to end.  If this story had been told in a ten book series, I would have gladly purchased them all
