Anyone interested in the issues that make up current debates in metaphysics should read this book. It opens up an entirely new vocabularly and conceptual scheme for those with little or no prior knowledge of the subject. Working through the chapters, arguments, and positions will greatly facilitate comprehension of more technical philosophical papers. At the same time the book presents the material in a technical fashion; it reads like real philosophy, as it should. Arguments receive in depth treatment and important sides to issues get presented fairly. For a beginner, this book will present many challenges. But overcoming these will reap great rewards. Probably the best thing to do after completing the book is to read it again. Of course this principle holds true for a lot of philosophy books, but since this one builds a foundation a second deep reading becomes almost essential.

Seven chapters cover some of the biggest issues in metaphysics. Each chapter builds on its predecessors, so the book doesn't hold up well to random browsing. It should be comprehended linearly. Starting off, the nearly ancient debate between nominalists and realists (with a small 'r') fills two chapters. Arguments for and against both positions take up most of the space (e.g., abstract entities, predication, Ockham's Razor, etc., along with a delineation of the various types of nominalism - austere, metalinguistic, trope theory). Chapter three discusses the arguments relating to the nature of concrete particulars, or the 'substratum' versus the 'bundle' theory. The nature of propositions gets a fair shake in chapter four; are they abstract necessarily existing entities or just talk about regular old concrete objects? Next, David Lewis' eyebrow-raising view of possible worlds and modality is coherently outlined in chapter five. Here the discussion get really juicy and complex. Modality is no picnic. Do possible worlds actually exist in the same manner of our own world or are possible worlds merely potential actual worlds that never obtained the level of an 'actual world'? Chapter six revisits the concrete particulars examined in chapter three, but now with the element of time included. Two views, endurantism and perdurantism, are juxtaposed along with two theories of time, presentism and eternalism. Finally, chapter seven gets to the bottom of many of the book's debates, which can be, cursorily, ground down to the question of human beings' connections between language and the world. Do languages actually refer to a mind-independent world or is the world we talk about inextricably linked to our sensory and conceptual processes? These questions explode in the debate between Realists (this time with a capital 'R') and anti-Realists. Anti-Realists challenge the 'traditional' notion of a direct connection between language and a mind-independent world. The idea of the 'inscrutablility of reference' (from W.V.O. Quine, though with a specific interpretation by the author and Hilary Putnam) provides meat for the anti-Realist's argument. This final chapter sees Realists and anti-Realists duking it out over these issues. The chapter, and the entire book, provide plenty of food for the brain to chew on. 

Throughout the book, the author argues for an Aristotelian-flavored "being 'qua' being" approach to metaphysics. This is very apparent in the book's excellent introduction as well as in the final chapter (aptly titled "The challenge of anti-Realism"). Though he makes his preference explicit, the arguments against his position still get a very fair shake. The author's position in no way degrades the quality of for-and-against delineation of arguments. So, even if readers do not agree with the author's overall stance, they can still obtain much useful knowledge.

Though the book's subtitle reads "a contemporary introduction" it is not an easy read. Major universities have used it for courses (the University of Minnesota's Philosophy department used it in a 5-XXX level class). Still, the book is not inaccessible to any careful general reader. It just takes some work. And that work, especially to someone seeking an entryway into the foundations of current metaphysical debates, will pay off in droves
