This is now the standard life of Mao, but for me it was like reading a history of the Cuban Missile Crisis that still talked about how Kennedy stared down Khrushchev without mentioning the secret deal for the U.S. to remove missiles from Turkey.  That is, it is sympathetic to the point of touting an official line at the expense of giving us the full story.  Still, it is useful to know what the official line is and this is a good life of Mao from his youth through his entire career.

Personally, I consider Mao one of the great killers of the 20th century, but I also know that most Chinese do not see him that way.  There are some who see him as a monster for what he did to hundreds of millions of people while he ruled China and for the tens of millions who died because of his policies.  Short always has a ready excuse to absolve Mao of direct evil, even while admitting that Mao is indeed responsible.  The Chinese I have spoken to who admire Mao do so because of his strength in freeing China from the West and making China into a world power.  

China has a history of strong emperors who ruled with an iron fist and under whose rule many people died.  Mao was a great student of Chinese history and new how to appeal to its themes and traditions.  In the Chinese view, they have plenty of people, and if some die and China becomes strong, so be it.  Mao played on this sensibility to the hilt.  However, I am not Chinese and am free to judge him according to my lights and for me he was one of the greatest monsters of all time.  Anyone who condemns ANY American leader in our history as a killer or a monster and yet praises Mao is a hypocrite beyond the power of the word to convey a strong enough level of hypocrisy.  But my view isn't the view of this book or the view of the Chinese and they should have the leaders they want.  It is their nation and culture after all.  And this book will give you a view of Mao more in line with how he is viewed by the country he helped re-create than the critical books such as "The Unknown Mao" or "The Private Life of Chairman Mao" (which are often attacked by people who support Mao - however, the details of most of the horrible events described do show up in even this biography if you read closely and look past the airbrushing).

The book does read well and will likely lead the unwary into feeling admiration for this man.  He certainly was an amazing man and one of great genius.  Whether you see him as a hero worthy of veneration or one of the great monsters in history, Mao is certainly an historic figure that one should know.  Reading across the spectrum of views is probably the best way to get a more true picture of the man and his career than you will get from either his supporters or his detractors.  So, this would be a good candidate for one of the kinder views of Mao that is still authoritative and fairly comprehensive
