	"He's very nervous when it comes to meeting new people.  That's why he's still alive."  In The Haunting of Alaizabel Cray, by Chris Wooding, Prussian bombings and the revolution of science have turned London into a city of terror.  With the sudden appearance of supernatural, malevolent creatures called wych-kin, new advancements attempt to keep the city safe.  Wych-hunters, like the acclaimed Thaniel Fox, prowl the streets of this strange Victorian London at night to control the damage done by wych-kin.  The action begins when Thaniel, a seventeen-year old boy searching for answers, stumbles across a lost, possessed girl on his nightly wych-hunt and decides to bring her in.  Much to his surprise, the girl, Alaizabel Cray, holds inside her an ancient evil that could end up destroying them all.  Surrounded by the brilliant minds of beggars and occultists alike, Thaniel must try to rid London of a growing evil force.      
	This compelling horror/science-fiction novel is a fast read, and the themes of the book are very gripping.  Even though it goes by quickly, the ending of the story will leave you thinking and questioning the truths of humanity. Although The Haunting of Alaizabel Cray contains very realistically formed creatures, it is far from a fantasy novel. The wych-kin are always out to kill, and the descriptions of certain characters and what they are capable of doing are far from anything you would consciously imagine.  Wooding's complex and realistic details add to the horror elements.  Through the book, he tells the story as if it actually happened and does not spare the reader from harsh realism.  If you enjoy gripping horror novels that come face to face with the supernatural, you will love The Haunting of Alaizabel Cray because it is frightening and exciting with a slight variation of the classic good versus evil battle.  The book is very similar to The Shade's Children, by Garth Nix because it stays both action-packed and emotional.  However, it is different from other novels of this genre since a lot of the focus remains on the characters and how each is affected by the toll of evil.  If you enjoy a classic horror story twisted with fantastical elements, you need to read The Haunting of Alaizabel Cray.  
