It has been said that the best story Jack London ever conceived is the one he lived.  You need look no further than THE CRUISE OF THE SNARK to confirm that.  In this book, all of London's passions come together: action, experience, sailing, foreign travel, writing and reading.  It is a "real adventure" tale, a travelogue and above all a well-crafted book full of London's personal voice and vibrant outlook on life.  One may say it is also full of his ego, but he earns the self-satisfaction by putting action and hard work behind his beliefs and words.  He is fearless.  He is the first to get the irony in a situation and the first to laugh, especially at himself. 

In 1908, London and six others, including his wife Charmian, sailed out of the San Francisco Bay into the open waters of the Pacific on what was to be a lengthy circumnavigation of the world.  They were leaving over a year later than originally planned due to hold-ups in the construction of London's "perfect" boat, "The Snark," which ate $30,000 dollars before they left harbor.   It isn't long before leaks, sea-sickness and other banana peels come their way, and it takes 27 days to make Hawaii.  In due course, London learns to surf, they visit the top of a volcano, hang out at a leper colony, and then head further south to the land of Melville's "Typee" and the scary Solomon Islands.  The various captains hired for the trip all seem to lack the navigation gene, so London teaches himself and gets it down to a science.  London, first by necessity and then overtaken by the intoxication of success, becomes a self-taught dentist, and thus his crew's savior and worst nightmare.  He and the crew suffer a nasty list of maladies, as well.  It is a testimony of the man's indefatigable spirit, that even when his own health puts an end to the "round the world" scheme, that he never characterizes the voyage and anything that did not go as planned as a crushing failure or disappointment.  He just heads straight to Plan B.

London's voice is wholly engaging, his profiles of crewmates and people encountered are delightful.  One only wishes that some of his perceptions of other cultures were more enlightened, though they were liberal for their time.  The Penguin Classics critical edition is an excellent balance of original text, a non-spoiling critical introduction, and a selection of 4 other short pieces, including accounts of the voyage by crewmate Martin Johnson and wife Charmian, and two unrelated  maritime essays by London that enrich the overall experience of the book.
