 
 In The World through Maps: A History of Cartography, geographer John Rennie Short demonstrates a keen sensitivity to maps' undeniable appeal through an expert selection of 200 maps, reproduced in full color, and all representative of mapmaking's heights from Paleolithic times to the present. Short draws upon recent scholarship in the history of cartography (Making Space, 2004; Mapping the Republic, 2001; and Alternative Geographies, 2000), producing a multifaceted study that extends the latest thinking in cartography to a general audience. Short's other major areas of specialization--globalization, urbanism, and environmental concerns-make him uniquely qualified to address with authority precisely those issues that exist at the nexus of cartographic representation. The confluence of Short's research interests and popularizing instincts distinguishes The World through Maps from other standard books about cartography for the general public, which often focus primarily on simple chronology and description, usually with an antiquarian emphasis. By presenting a body of knowledge relating to how maps and their makers have produced the world, its contested realities, and its competing claims, Short acknowledges that those spatial appetites currently endowing new energy to social theory persist way beyond the academy. In recognizing and addressing this widening interest, The World through Maps raises the bar for all future books on the history of cartography intended for the general public. 
 
 Short's aim to sophisticate a nonprofessional audience's appreciation for the cultural significance of cartography is evidence of the utmost pedagogical dedication. He magnifies this instructive generosity through a text that is free of jargon, devoted to the clear expression of complex ideas and respectful of all levels of intelligent inquiry. For the novice, there is an introductory chapter on the language of maps. Apposite historical sidebars and succinct captions filled with an intriguing miscellany of information complete the supplementation necessary to support the new learner. The well-placed auxiliary texts combine with the chronological organization of the main text to comprise an encyclopedic primer of cartographic history. Furthermore, Short puts the reader at ease by personalizing the text with a sense of humor, well-chosen autobiographical anecdotes, and an occasional, strategic Socratic question. 
 
 Along the way of this book's very &quot;good read,&quot; the reader will amass an astonishing amount of well-integrated knowledge regarding the historically important maps of land, sea, and sky created by the major protagonists in cartography for a variety of purposes, from metaphysical speculation to land speculation. The reader also will soon perceive that maps always have been &quot;present at the creation,&quot; indeed have had large shares in that creation. Maps have generated, recorded, organized, and disseminated the cultural processes of dreaming about, moving through, charting, claiming, and developing territory. It is not long before the perceptive reader realizes that no place in the world is unaffected by cartography and that this has been the case ever since the first ephemeral hand gesture pointed the way. John Rennie Short masterfully narrates and illustrates both, as he says, &quot;the story of the map and the story in the map.&quot; The World through Maps: A History of Cartography is a tour de force in terms of reaching a general audience because it not only appeals to a public understanding of geography but also elevates it.

