Please understand that I consider myself, as a seminary student and future teacher of Old Testament theology, a PreMill.  I come to this through strong and long study daily of Scripture because I believe that the Word of God, the Bible, is true concerning God, Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit, the Kingdom of God, both now found in the Church and in the future realized Kingdom.  That is from studying, through the few years that I have been a Christian, both Old Testament and New Testament prophetic theology--not just the Olivette Discourse and the Book of Revelation, but also books like Isaiah, Ezekiel, and that like.  With that under my belt I'd like to give my views toward this book, the final book of the extremely long running Left Behind series.  So please understand:  I agree with the theology.  I agree with the interpretation of scripture as far as it goes (though I might have some disagreements here and there with the authors).  The reason for my beliefs does not rely just on listening to LaHaye and saying "he's right" but from my own studies and prayer and classes.  I belief in PreMill interpretation of Scripture because of the key component of Scripture:  Israel and Israel's fate as found in prophetic scripture, both OT and NT.  I believe that, as Paul indicates and as Scripture fully indicates, Israel's Jews are still God's chosen people.  We all, Jew and Gentile, make up the church and there is no barrier between us, but still prophetically speaking we have our own roles to play in the meaning of God's Kingdom and Kingdom Come in Christ Jesus.  I believe that, of course, there are no barriers between Jews and Gentiles, but still, just like a hand has its own mission in life, so too does an ear, or an arm, or a leg.  We all make up the body of the Bride of Christ and this will have full vitalization and revelation in the Rapture, the Seven Years of Tribulation, and from there the Millennial Kingdom and from there the New Heavens and the New Earth.

Now, to the book.  Let me honestly say, I don't care for Jenkin's style of writing.  And I don't feel that comfortable in how LaHaye has turned prophecy into pop culture.  For me it is too simple in construct and it takes the energy away from Scripture's prophecies.  Sentences, paragraphs, chapters.  They'll all too simple for me.  That's just my opinion.  Of course.  I consider myself some what of a writer.  And I tend to like more in-depth exploration and examination of plots.  The story goes by too fast.  Which, then again, leads to another problem.  The entire series was way too disproportional.  There was no structural balance.  One book might only be about three days (I believe it was the Indwelling), while another book might deal with a whole year or two.  Then there's the prelude trilogy.  Not really needed at all.  In terms of this book, which I do say I enjoyed as much as I would enjoy Jenkins' style of storytelling, it seems that the bulk of the story dealt with a few years, while the first few chapters and the last few had several paragraphs going over entire years.  Again, if the Indwelling was a book about three days, I'd wish that the writers would have put at least three books (but no more) to go over the entire Millennial Kingdom.  The Millennial Kingdom is important in terms of prophecy for both Jews and Gentiles alike, for those who have been Raptured before the Tribulation and for those of faith living through and after the Tribulation.  The Millennial Kingdom has important concrete importance for those Jews, especially, who live through the Tribulation and have come to trust in the truth of Jesus Christ as Son of God and King of Kings, the Lion of Judah and the Lamb of God.  Thus for me the story seems to go by way to fast, I've been able to read it in about a day's worth of time.  I want something that is this important, at least to me, to be a strong and powerful and long read...something akin to, say, Randy Alcorn's Deadline novel.  A story like Alcorn's lasts for days, hours, powerful emotional reading, that is how this book should have been.  It wasn't.  I liked it, I recommend all to read it, but man, please, more too it than what I have here, please
