Two Michigan hunters go up North Michigan for a weekend of hunting and male bonding. They get into a little trouble with the wrong people and are never heard from again right before Thanksgiving 1985. One man was married and the other was engaged. They were lifelong friends who would die together. I am fascinated by the book. The short chapters of two pages can be a little annoying at times but Tom Henderson is a great crime writer in trying to explain to the reader of the problems that arose from these hunters' disappearances. The locals knew what happened or knew who was involved. A family that would make the film Deliverance look like a step up. The Duvalls were responsible for terrorizing witnesses and obstructing justice in order to maintain free for many years. They were the kind of family that you should not be a part of. There was abuse, violence, hatred, and anger for each other as well for their loved ones including their own relatives. They were abusive to their wives, girlfriends and lovers over the yaers. One of the Duvalls shot the matriarch and the patriarch Duvall died without much mourning. They lived more like animals than human beings and scared and frightened witnesses who knew what happened to those poor hunters who came from loving families and homes in Detroit. Thank God for the investigators like Schram and Bronco. Believe it or not, Bronco was also the nickname for the lead investigator who helped bring down the Duvalls but the hunters were driving a Bronco at the time. It might have been wiser to use his last name or his first name rather than his nickname because we wouldn't want to confuse the reader with the missing Ford Bronco. But otherwise, I am shocked and think this story could be a great movie despite all the horror or a good episode for City Confidential on Arts and Entertainment. I would love to visit Michigan to see it's natural beauty including the beasts whether natural or human who occupy the wooded north of Michigan. In the end, justice does prevail
