Just finished reading "2 years to a million". Enjoyed the book. Very well structured content, great explanations laid out about every aspect of rental properties. I won't apply too much of it in the immediate future, but when I have the means, you can rest assured That I'll apply what I've learned. 
I think the best advice was to get into it for the long haul. You rightly discourage "flipping" and the quick buck nonsense that got so many people into trouble recently. I don't think a better or more realistic strategy exists for investing in RP's than what you Laid out. Keeping the NOI low, and the cash flow high, is what its all about. 
My basic analogy is dividend-paying blue chip stocks. You hold onto enough of them, and you can live off the dividends, and sell off what you please, when you need to. The prob with the quick-flippers, who by the way are alive and well and crawling all over Texas as we speak, is they are focused on exit strategies, almost to the exclusion of building value over time. Building value is almost antithetical to their whole mind-ser, which unfortunately leaves a wake of bad loans and overpriced real estate in their wake.
Case in point was Las Vegas and South Florida, neither of which have the income levels from locals that can prop up an area over time.
Funny as it sounds, its not terribly unlike propping up Muncie, Indiana or Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The game was predicated to collapse over time, and collapse they did. 
Conversely, your method builds up properties and areas, and adds values to properties, for the investors' AND the communities' benefit.
It's a solid, long-term strategy that will put more money in your wallet over the long term, after all is said and done.
Classic turtle and hare situation. In this case hares are quick-flippers. They leave town almost as quickly as they arrive.
Sometimes they walk away with a lot of cash, just as often they are left holding the bag, as the majority of them are all over the sunbelt as we speak. I strongly hope your methodology gets out there in a big way, for the benefit of investors AND communities both.
