In 1996, NASA created a brief stir by claiming that a meteorite that originated on Mars and had landed in Antarctica showed evidence of primitive life. That claim faded, but Harvard paleontologist Andrew Knoll says the real difficulty is proving the existence of primitive life on Earth.
We know it was there, because we're here, but just how and where did life get its start?
Recently, thanks to a new cooperation between paleontology and molecular biology, the possible answers have at least been narrowed down. "We are not close to solving the riddle of life's origins," Knoll writes in "Life on a Young Planet."
But it began a long time ago. Evidence for life 3.8 billion years ago is shaky. At 3.5 billion years in the past, the evidence is rather better. A few hundred million years later, it's solid.
The atom-by-atom sequences that can now be done for genes provide a kind of clock. Paleontologists like Knoll are more skeptical of this clock than laboratory scientists, because rates of change are not stable.
But the results are suggestive, and molecular sequencing also provides a much closer analysis of relationships among the divergent forms of life.
It is now a commonplace that animals and fungi had a common ancestor more recently than animals and plants did. That was a surprise. There have been others.
Sequencing and other research has since revealed that one-celled organisms are far more diverse than previously known. If the same standards that are used to declare a group of multicellular species a "kingdom" were applied to one-celled species, the number of "kingdoms" would soar to more than 30. Just a decade or so ago, the commonly accepted total was about five, with a few radicals suggesting there could be seven.
Of all the kingdoms, cyanobacteria or blue-green algae are "arguably the most important organisms ever to appear on Earth."
Knoll traces the evidence for early life, and the growing recognition of how environment (the processes of non-life) and ecology (the processes of life) combined to create revolutions in Earth history. Until recently, says Knoll, the role of environment was not given its due weight.
Now, however, scientists believe they understand how the oceans changed in revolutionary fashion thanks to cyanobacteria, how tremendous ice ages (longer and more extensive than the one in whose brief warm phase we live) redirected evolution.
The big deal, it appears, was the combination of a big ice age and an oxygen-rich atmosphere for the first time. Earlier big ice ages hadn't ruffled the slow course of evolution noticeably. 
It now looks as if the first big one after free oxygen took over may have triggered the explosion of animal species that signaled the Cambrian Era, about 600 million years ago.
A previous generation of paleontologists had argued whether the sudden appearance of many animals in fossil beds was a real change or merely an artifact of the way fossils are preserved.
The answer seems to be, it was real. "Ice heralded the age of animals," writes Knoll.
New discoveries come almost weekly. "Only in 2001," writes Knoll, "was it discovered that tiny Archaeans (living descendants of some of the earliest species to evolve) may be the most abundant organisms in many parts of the ocean; biologists have no idea how these microbes make their living."
"Life on a Young Planet" is a stimulating tour through the history of evolution as we understand it today. 

 
