The Jedi Academy Trilogy (1994.) A three-book Star Wars saga by Kevin J. Anderson.

NOTE: This review is for the entire trilogy.

INTRODUCTION: 
The Star Wars film series is, without question, the greatest science fiction series of all time. George Lucas captured the minds of people young and old across the world. But as anyone knows, there are only a limited number of films, and for many people, this just wasn't enough. And thus, the Star Wars Expanded Universe was born. The Expanded Universe consisted of comic books, video games, novels, and other media. Many of the stories focused on the characters in the films, many focused on unknown characters from the same universe. Among the authors who tried their hands at creating Star Wars novels was Kevin J Anderson. He was a fairly notable science fiction author, and the middle of the nineties, he wrote several Star Wars novels. One of his best-known Star Wars projects was the Jedi Academy Trilogy, released in the middle of the decade. Read on to see how the series measures up! 

OVERVIEW:
The Jedi Academy Trilogy occurs seven years after Return of the Jedi. It takes place right between the Dark Empire comic book series and the novel Children of the Jedi. Luke Skywalker has a dream to find force-endowed beings across the galaxy, so that he may train them at his new Jedi Academy. This way, a new line of Jedi Knights can protect the New Republic, just as the original Knights defended the Old Republic before its collapse. Luke sets out to find candidates for his Academy, while Han Solo and Chewbacca get themselves into a dangerous situation. Even after escaping their first of these dangerous situations, they wander into something even worse - and discover some long-lost Imperial remants, working on a weapon capable of wiping out an entire solar system. This is a three-book saga.

REVIEW:
Overall, I would have to say that the Jedi Academy Trilogy is probably the finest multi-work piece of Star Wars literature that I have read thusfar. Kevin J. Anderson is an excellent author, and he does every aspect of the universe excellently. I'm surprised to see the stories in this saga get such a backlash from fans - I found them to be every bit as enjoyable as the more widely-revered Thrawn Trilogy by Timothy Zahn. In fact, I prefer Anderson's writing style over Zahn's. A little word of advice - if you've just finished the Thrawn Trilogy, and you want to read what's next in the series, DO NOT IMMEDIATELY START THE JEDI ACADEMY TRILOGY! READ THE DARK EMPIRE COMIC BOOKS FIRST! I didn't read Dark Empire first, and it's a very important story occuring between Zahn's Trilogy and Anderson's. If you don't read it, you'll be left confused at many of the comments made in the book about a resurrected Emperor Palpatine. Overall I really enjoyed this Trilogy of Anderson's. He's one of the best Expanded Universe novels, and if you need proof, read this saga.

EDITION NOTES:
The Jedi Academy Trilogy remains very popular, so it's not surprising to see that its books are still in print and readily available. If you want to read them, most bookstores carry them, so they shouldn't be too hard to come across.

OVERALL:
In the end, this trilogy flat-out rules. Where many Expanded Universe authors have failed, Anderson succeeds with flying colors. If you're just getting into the Expanded Universe, I recommend starting where the movies left off and working your way through all of the stories up to this one before reading it. Trust me on that one. Overall, any Star Wars fan should get a real kick out of Anderson's Trilogy. Highly recommended! Five stars
