The conflict in Vietnam was one of the most divisive foreign policy issues in our nation's history. The events which led up to full-scale American involvement in Vietnam vividly illustrated this divisiveness; a  divisiveness which would change politics in America and the way in which  Americans would look at their government. Robert D. Schulzinger's book,  &quot;A Time for War:The United States and Vietnam, 1941-1975&quot;,  presents a comprehensive and analytical narrative on a war which is still  hard for historians and the public to fully understand and interpret.  Schulzinger brilliantly portrays U.S. involvement in Vietnamese affairs by  analyzing how presidents and their national security teams from Roosevelt  to Ford handled foreign policy concerning Vietnam. The objectivity of the  book is very important and refreshing and interestingly points out how so  many politicians and foreign policy experts predicted the eventual outcome  of U.S. military involvement. Schulzinger's analysis of Johnson and his  relations with advisors such as Robert McNamara, Walt Rostow, and McGeorge  Bundy, tell of a president who knew what he was getting the country into  but could not look beyond the short term effects of his decisions. By  1967-68, the war totally consumed Johnson and a point of no return was  reached.  Schulzinger also points out that the various South Vietnamese  regimes failed to give proper support and encouragement to U.S. efforts.  U.S. involvement in Vietnam was much too often taken for granted and this  was a serious flaw in relations between Saigon and Washington. Unity and  sense of nationalism were severely lacking in South Vietnam. Schulzinger's  book provides a well-rounded and comprehensive analysis of a difficult time  in American history. His primary source research was well done and the  objectivity of the book was truly refreshing. The only drawback to the book  is that one can easily get lost in his discussions of politics and  diplomatic maneuvering. It also might have behooved the author to cover the  American soldiers' experiences a little more as well. But, overall, this is  a book which definitely stands out among Vietnam historiography
