"Do feminist politics make a difference, and can democratic states, still dominated by men and often denoted as patriarchal, actually be feminist?" (xiii).  This is the controversial question behind The Politics of Prostitution: Women's Movements, Democratic States and the Globalisation of Sex Commerce, one of six edited books by scholars from the Research Network on Gender Politics and the State (RNGS). The network, established in 1995 and including 39 researchers from 16 western post-industrial countries, aims to study women's movements and women's policy agencies to determine what effect, if any, they had on getting states to improve women's status in the late 20th century.   RNGS came into existence after the publication of Comparative State Feminism, edited by Dorothy McBride Stetson and Amy Mazur (Thousand Oaks: Sage, 1995), when it became clear that more extensive research was needed to analyse state response to women's movements' demands. Joyce Outshoorn and her team of researchers examine prostitution policy in twelve countries (Australia, Austria, Britain, Canada, Finland, France, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United States) and should be applauded for their decision to focus on prostitution, which is generally considered to be a public health or social problem and is thus often relegated to the sidelines of political science/policy debates. 

Outshoorn's introduction provides useful background information for those who are unfamiliar with the sex work/sexual exploitation discussion, which has split the feminist movement since the 1980s. She also explains how prostitution was traditionally seen by states as either a "law and order" or as a morality issue until the second wave of the women's movement brought prostitution back onto the political agenda in the 1970s and problematised the issue. It is interesting that the researchers did not take the nation state as their point of departure for analysis but rather policy debates within each individual country. Outshoorn cannily fends off criticism that this qualitative approach lacks the rigour of its quantitative counterpart (i.e. national case studies) by arguing that careful attention to detail and increased observations make the qualitative approach more useful for theory-building. Outshoorn also outlines how each researcher was careful to stick to the RNGS framework when classifying results so as to "maintain reliability and to avoid the problems of conceptual stretching" (14). This is certainly the case throughout the book, as information is presented in a remarkably consistent fashion.

However, despite Outshoorn's team's impressive methodology, it soon becomes tiresome to read one detailed policy debate analysis after the other and I often found myself bogged down in detail and losing sight of the broader picture. This is perhaps an unfair criticism, as I read the book in one sitting for the purpose of this review instead of "dipping into" it for information on one individual country as a "normal" reader might have done. Thankfully, Outshoorn provides a neat summary of her analyses in the conclusion, which answers her original question - "Do policy agencies matter" - in the affirmative. Outshoorn emphasises, first and foremost, that women's policy agencies were particularly successful (in nine out of the twelve countries) at achieving access to the debates and attaining their demands when they managed to gender the prostitution debate, as it had remained profoundly gender-neutral up until the 1970s, glossing over the fact that most prostitutes are women. Interestingly, the United States was the only country to focus almost exclusively on prostitution involving young boys, thus completely ignoring the "female question". Some countries preferred to focus more on trafficked women, possibly because their assumed victimhood made them less of a political "hot potato" than those women who were perceived as having, for whatever reason, chosen sex work. Another factor, which contributed to the success of feminist policy agencies was if they were allowed to participate directly as "insiders" in the policy-making process. Most important, however, was the policy environment, especially if it was compatible with the approach of the women's movements, although the data of the research team highlights that "issues around sexuality appear to lie on a different dimension in politics than the left-right divide, and that the left is not always one's best friend on these issues." (291). These results explain why radical anti-pornography/anti-prostitution feminists and the religious right have often forged an alliance, which is not as strange as one may think.

Perhaps one of the most striking aspects of the study is its emphasis on the profound differences between feminists as regards their policy demands and successes. For example, we learn that in the Netherlands, a distinction is now made between voluntary prostitution, regulated as sex work in brothels, and forced prostitution, prosecuted as illegal; in the Australian state of New South Wales, street prostitution was legalised in 1979, although it was later prohibited in areas near dwellings, schools, churches and hospitals; of course, Swedish prostitution policy, which took the unusual measure of criminalising the client in 1999, has received the most attention in the press in recent years. As interesting as these differences in policy outcomes are, however, they leave one fundamental question unanswered: how successful were these individual policies in their aim of improving conditions for prostitutes and minimising the danger of their work environment? I am aware that my question here is somewhat unfair, given that the focus of The Politics of Prostitution prevented such a question being answered, yet it is a question I cannot prevent myself from asking, having worked with street prostitutes in Glasgow and witnessed first-hand how their lives were made even more complicated by British prostitution policy. Writing about the effects of policy in the Australian State of Victoria (a brothel licensing scheme, strengthened in 1995) we learn only, for example, that "to date, it cannot be said that these measures have offered better and safer working conditions for most workers in the prostitution industry." (31) As already stated, it is clear that it was beyond the RNGS team's remit to delve too deeply into this area, yet I would suggest that a book dealing with these matters is long overdue. If such a book existed, feminists would perhaps be able to get beyond focusing on the polarity of the sex work/sexual exploitation debate and concentrate on ensuring that prostituted women get what they deserve most: protection, not condemnation, from the state and a life free from violence and persecution.
