
  This book was published in 2004 and is loaded with results of polls to indicate preferences of voters on all sorts of issues. It covers the issues and shows the direction that the Democrats and Republicans must take if they hope to sway voters from one party to the other. The book amplifies the miriad of issues that face both the voters and the party stratgeists.One of the difficult things is that ,while there are many issues,the voter must in his final analysis, choose one candidate over another.
  Whe also see that a great number of voters have a large amount of party loyalty and will not vote against party loyalty,regardless.  So,what this means is that the center ground and voter willingless to make their vote count is really what elections are all about. Each party has agendae and pressures that divide the voter. In the book we see why and how both parties play up or play down issues in hopes go gaining the most votes at the time.
  The book is written more from the standpoint of how the Democrats must change to win.Reading this book now,we see that it is obvious that the Democrats failed to move to the center and thus loss the 2004 election. As November 2006 approaches,we will again see if the shifts will occur; and again in 2008. 
  One thing that has often occurred to me over the years ,particularly with the election of the President, falls under personality and traits such as trust,likability
 and leadership.I think these factors overide party agenda,certainly in enough numbers from swing voters to result in one candidate winning over another.
  Although most party loyalists would not likely agree but I believe that,Kennedy,Roosevelt, Truman,Eisenhower, Reagan and Bush were all winners on that score. As much as the media tried to destroy George W. Bush, when you get right down to it the swing voter liked these  qualities better with him than with John Kerry...and that's why he won. 
 I am really surprised the author did not address this important factor in his otherwise extensive coverage of issues.
This is why the Debates are so important.It's not which candidate wins on debating skills ;but which one is the one the voter trusts,likes and thinks would make the best leader.
