Ryan and Pitman's thesis is that the Black Sea used to be cut off from its entrance to the Mediterranean, and was a great inland lake.  Twenty thousand years ago the lake was filled to the brim by melt water from the last major ice age, and emptied through the Sakarya River, but by 13,000 years ago the ice had withdrawn so far to the north that the inflow to the Black Sea depression almost stopped.  This coincided with a brief mini-ice age known as the Younger Dryas which lasted for about 1000 years and was simultaneously accompanied by both cooler temperatures and general drying.  

During this cool, dry period the inflow to the Black Sea was reduced to the point that evaporation exceeded inflow and the lake level dropped to roughly 300-400 feet below its present level.  Because of the dry conditions during the Younger Dryas many populated regions were abandoned, including Jericho and regions in and around the Fertile Crescent.  The Black Sea, however, provided a point of respite, with fresh water and food from the lake and (because of its lower elevation) warmer temperatures.  As a result, tribes crowded around the lake and it became an agricultural area.

The Younger Dryas ended about 11,400 years ago, but yet another mini Ice Age set in around 6,200 BCE.  The climate reverted back to a warmer and wetter one around 5,800 BCE, and by 5,600 BCE ocean levels were higher than the Bosporus valley, which was 500 feet above the Black Sea Lake.  

According to Ryan and Pitman the breach happened quickly, eventually reaching a flow rate of ten cubic miles of water each day.  In the process the flood cut the straights of Bosporus, excavating a channel 280 feet deep into the topsoil and bedrock.  The flood took only a year to substantially flood the Black Sea Lake and just a couple of years to bring it to the level we see today.

The flood engulfed a rich valley with an agrarian culture that fled to different parts of the surrounding country when their Black Sea Lake was inundated.  Some, called Ubaids, who spoke a language later known as Sumerian, migrated into the middle of southern Mesopotamia.  There they established a remarkable culture that retained its memory of the great flood through the telling of stories that grew into myth.  This great flood myth was later adopted by the Israelites and included in their scriptures, eventually to become a key doctrine and rallying cry for millions of fundamentalist Christians, Mormons, and even a belief of the President of the United States, George W. Bush.  

Interestingly, if you do a Google search on the Black Sea and Noah's flood you'll find a plethora of fundamentalist organizations touting this scientific discovery as evidence for their un-scientific notions of a literal world-wide flood.  To that extent, the title of this book is unfortunate, although the authors can't really be held responsible for intellectually disingenuous religious fanatics.  I think a more appropriate (and more accurate) title would have been "Origin of the Myth of Noah's Flood."  It's hard to say, but a more accurate title might have helped prevent such modern-day educational tragedies as the National Park Service including books about how the Grand Canyon was created by Noah's flood.  

The book begins with a summary of early archaeological work that traces the origin of the Biblical flood and creation myths to Babylonia, and how these myths were borrowed by the Israelites and incorporated into the Bible.   Early on, their working hypothesis was that the flood myth, though clearly not global, probably had its origin in some real, if not world-wide, event that left an indelible impression upon earth's ancient inhabitants.  The story of the scientific discovery begins with the geological surveys and ocean core samples showing that the Mediterranean Sea had dried up and become a desert several million years ago, only to be filled again with the breach of the dam at Gibraltar.

Several million years ago is too far into the past to have served as the inspiration for the myth of Noah's flood, but the idea of salt water flooding a plain that lies below sea level inspired several scientists to look for other, more recent possibilities.  All the evidence came together with scientific surveys of the Black Sea.  Acoustic soundings showed the rubble from the breach at Bosporus.  Carbon 14 dating confirmed the proper age of sediments associated with the saltwater that came gushing in, and of organisms that could only thrive in sunlight, found below those sediments at depths of several hundred feet.  Indeed, the totality of the scientific evidence shows without doubt that the Black Sea was rapidly and permanently filled with sea water only a little more than 7,000 years ago.  

Interestingly, the authors include a cautionary statement at the end of the book, which says: "Short of finding the remains of Neolithic settlements beneath the mud of the present Black Sea shelf, no archaeological observation can prove a human occupation of the now submerged landscape."  The book was published in 1998; a time when the sought-after archeological evidence hadn't been found.  However, in a September 13, 2000 article incorrectly titled "Black Sea Artifacts May Be Evidence of Biblical Flood," the Washington Post reported that manmade structures have been found 300 feet beneath the surface of the Black Sea, dating to the inundation 7,500 years ago.  

This is truly a great book.  It's written somewhat like a scientific novel, describing a story with an amazing amount of endeavor and discovery.  It's the sort of book that's hard to put down.  I finished it in less than a week.
