Bad luck for Shawn Levy that he spent years and years writing the definitive story of Porfirio Rubirosa, calling it THE LAST PLAYBOY, and along came the Walls with their CHASING RUBI, with a subtitle referring to his reputation as the last playboy.  There's also a book by Pierre Delannoy called something like "The Dernier of the Playboys."  Actually I believe there are plenty of playboys left and that all of these author are just in love with a phrase that's pretty meaningless.  But of them all, only Shawn Levy has a real style.  He is sort of like Nick Tosches, only with more mental and intellectual fireworks, and his "New Journalism" style, which drifts from one apercu to another, just the way we might think if we were brilliant, is rather like reading a non fiction work by someone like Bruce Wagner.

Portland has the largest percentage of intriguing writers right now of any American city, and Shawn Levy is always the go to guy when you want the top of your skull taken off.  Where else would you read a book in which Zsa Zsa Gabor, a joke even in her own time, becomes a credible, even reflective character, almost an Isabel Archer of the jet set?  It's a shame that Levy seems to have been unable to conduct an interview with Kim Novak, the reclusive movie star who knew Rubi well in the 1950s, when her bold, adventurous pursuit of interracial romance made her the poster girl for a nation torn by inchoate longings for alterity.

Levy savvily takes us into the perspective of Langston Hughes, who wrote an often ignored obituary when Rubi died.  Obviously Hughes was half awed by the legend of Rubi's Rubirosa, but he had him pegged as a black man who had to pass for "white" in a racist society.  And yet, even when passing, Rubi showed off a style and glitter that was fairly incandescent.  Langston Hughes might have had something there, and it is no slight to Shawn Levy to aver that taken as a whole, his book advances Hughes' 1965 argument only in minor ways.  As a spectacle, the book has no peer.  Reading the book is like going to Deauville with Jimmy Donahue whispering in your ear the whole way.

I hope Levy turns his attention next to writing a book about Rubi's former wife, Danielle Darrieux.  The amazing French actress is still alive.  She will be 90 next year and she is still acting.  Like Rubi, she is amor personified.  If only she could tell all her secrets!  Like Pandora, she has kept all the sins of the world in a box, and her finger passes along her beautiful lips like a guerdon
