This First American Hardcover Edition is the ultimate 'playbill' to the DVD "No Direction Home" - mentioned in the beginning of the book. Why? My guess is that the brilliant Mr. Blake thought we might like some answers to questions (raised by Dylan himself), that many of us were dying to ask after experiencing that extraordinary work of art. When I bought the book, (after buying the DVD), I had no idea (even though this book is a 2005 First Edition) that it would explain (for example - and these are just a few): Dylan's "coded" reference to his relationship with Joan Baez and their artistic-romantic conflicts that later developed and why; the detailed account of Dylan's historical visit with Woody Guthrie at Greystone Hospital in NJ, w/ Guthrie's heartrending efforts to play for Dylan w/ photos (and Guthrie's remarks about Dylan as well!); what The Beatles thought of Dylan at first (almost a god); and visa versa (certainly not gods) along with the testy relationship that developed between Dylan and Lennon musically, politically, and philosophically later on; Dylan's close relationship with the late George Harrison; the horrors for many long-lost-artists of the "Dylan era" re drugs and alcohol; Dylan's relationship, marriage and divorce with his great love, Sara - and why. I could go on and on. The book documents all of this with gorgeous inside cover art, photos, (many not in the film as stills) and the best prose on Dylan I have ever read by some of the greatest writers who-knew-him-when; then, and now. But the book goes even further - right up to Dylan's Grammy Award for "Time Out of Mind" w/ photos and text to back up what really happened from the outside in and inside out. Artistically, and historically, this is the single-most important book (w/ Bono in his terrific Foreward admitting that even today he would carry Dylan's bags) on the enigmatic, mystically mysterious, and most private poetic and musical genius - the one, the only Bob Dylan. At this low price (for now...) grab it while you can.
