I've been reading the "Alex McKnight" series by Steve Hamilton since it started back during the late nineties with a Cold Day in Paradise.  The books have always been more character driven than action, which enables the reader to get to know the protagonist on a more intimate level, thereby making the series more fun to read.  So far I've enjoyed each and every novel that Mr. Hamilton has written.  I have to say, however, that the newest book in the series, A Stolen Season, steals the show.  I started out reading fifty pages a night.  Then, I got midway in the novel and something happened to the main character that forced me to stay up all night and finished the blasted thing.  There was simply no way that I'd be able to sleep, knowing what I did.  I had to find out what happened next even if it meant going a day without sleep.  On one level that's what good storytelling is all about.  On another, I wanted to literally grab Mr. Hamilton by the shoulders and shake him until he explained why he'd done such a tragic thing to our hero, Alex McKnight.  Yeah, I know.  It's only fiction.  Still, when an author writes well-developed characters, the readers slowly begin to care for them as if they're close friends.  In fact, I almost want to say that while the novel is being read, the characters are every bit as real as the people who live next door.  Maybe more real, if you're a hermit like me.  

A Stolen Season starts out on two fronts.  On the one end, Alex McKnight unintentionally gets involved with some unsavory characters when he and his friend Leon save three guys in a boating accident from drowning.  It later turns out that the guys are mixed up in some illegal drug trafficking between the United States and Canada.  Because something of value was lost during the accident, the guys think that either Alex, or one of his friends, have it.  They start putting the pressure on Alex, and he immediately begins to hit back, not realizing the caliber of people that he's dealing with and how dangerous they are.  Alex will underestimate the guys and ultimately find himself standing on a bluff with a handgun pointed at his face, waiting to die.  On the second front, Alex's girlfriend, Natalie Reynaud, has moved to Toronto to do undercover work for the police department there.  Her job is to get close to the girlfriend of one of the most terrifying men that she's ever met and to hopefully break up a ring of gun smugglers.  Something eventually happens that brings the two fronts together, driving Alex McKnight to the edge of despair at the tragedy that has erupted in his life.  His blood brother, Vinnie, helps him to gradually recover.  It's only then that Alex decides to paint his face red with his own blood and to go to war.  From that moment, Alex is on a personal mission to kill anybody who was involved in the tragedy that has changed his life forever.  He no longer cares if he lives or dies.  His only purpose is revenge.  God help anyone who gets in his way!

What can I say?  A Stolen Season chilled me to the bone with what happens to Alex McKnight.  It was totally unexpected and stunned me in a way I haven't experienced very often with a novel.  I'm still dealing with it even as I write this short review.  As usual the writing is excellent, the suspense is nerve wracking, a lot of people end up dead, and the story ends sooner than you would like.  The author has already stated in his newsletter that it's going to be awhile before the next "Alex McKnight" novel.  I had to wait two years for this book to come out, and now I have to wait another two years for the next novel.  This is definitely cruel and unusual punishment from an author I have grown to like.  I will say that Steve Hamilton has created a series that's every bit as good as anything James Lee Burke or Robert Parker has written.  Once you get started on one of the "Alex McKnight" books, you'll want to read them all.  No brag, just fact.  This is a fantastic series that I highly recommend to anyone who's the least bit interested in great writing and a fictional hero that stands out with the best in literature.  
