When I first ordered this book now nearly two years ago I was so excited to read it. And for the most part I loved the book. Joan Mellen proves that Garrsion was right all along. (But I already knew that). And the  portions on Garrison are so good that this book is definately worth getting. That said two pieces of her "evidence" were very troubling to me.
 First, that RFK sent  CIA stooge Walter Sheridan  to sabotage the Garrison investigation. I know that Ms. Mellen believes Bobby was killed by a conspiracy, (from personal communications with her), so it makes no sense that Bobby would try to sabotage the only true investigation into the murder of his brother.  (When we all know that it was the CIA and FBI who sabotaged Garrison). 

The second problem I had with this book is the old CIA-disinformation chestnut that the brothers Kennedy were trying to kill Castro.  Her proof of this comes from a man  named Angelo Murgado.  Most of the serious researchers on this case who I know I know did not find any of this credible. I know that Ms. Mellen really believes Murgado. But Ms. Mellen also knows that that JFK was conducting secret plans to meet with Castro and restore relations with Cuba, literally on the eve of Dallas.   So plans to kill Castro, which we know the CIA to be engaged in, did not include the Kennedy brothers.  Who lead Ms Mellen to Murgado? That most unreliable of sources Gerry Hemming.

Garrison expert Jim DiEugenio has done an excellent review of this book, which I recommend. Ms. Mellen called it mean- spirited but I disagree.
I also thought we could have done without the sex  in  this book. 

I still recommend reading AFTJ for the updated information on Garrison's case. It actually brought me to tears.   And I agree with her title. Garrison's case should have changed history.  But we have a press that is controlled by the CIA (google "Operation Mockingbird").
Thankfully the net is a treasure trove of information on this case. (Beware of McAdams tho!)

And forums like John Simkin's "JFK Assassination Debate" a subsection of his Education forum allows people interested in this case from all  over the world to converse with each other. The thread  there on this book is lively and informative. Ms. Mellen put many years of work into this book- it's well worth reading.

Attorney Dawn Meredith
Austin, Tx.      
