Even though the Bravo Two Zero mission was a failure, it brought to the world what goes on 'behind the scenes'. As another reviewer said, war in the media is nothing more than glorious explosions and hi-tech missile 'cams'. Only with the likes of Andy McNab writing a book about the doomed mission do we grasp the horror and reality of combat, and the appendages that go with war - misinformation, confusion, lack of equipment, and geological errors (the surprising fact that the Iraq desert at night is freezing).

The most damning thing was luck - i.e., the lack of. Most operations gather that some things will inevitably go wrong, but with this mission nothing went right, from no communication on the radios, to the fearsome weather and the splitting of the patrol into two groups.

McNab's adventure resembles something that was last seen during the Second World War - secrecy, hand-to-hand combat, and the reality and horror of captivity in an alien world. 

It is sad and regrettable that three of the men die, especially as two of them perished by hypothermia (which could have been easily prevented if intelligence knew the reality of the harshnest of the Iraqi wastelands at night).

Despite the pain and brutality that the SAS patrol go through, this is a ripping story of adventure. Even if you are not interested in the mysterious mechanisms of Special Forces and their operations, you will still find the book exciting, as it journeys to the very edge of what human beings can endure. 

I also suggest reading Chris Ryan's "The One That Got Away". He was the only member of the patrol to escape and his incredible journey of 200 miles on foot to the Syrian border is a story on its own (he drank poisoned water, had very little food, lost all his toe nails, and was nearly lynched at the very end of his epic journey).

There are accusations that some parts of the book are ficticious, especially in regards to the combat situations. However, I bought this book - and Ryan's book, because of the endurance that they both went through (McNab's torture and Ryan's horrific walk). Both NcNab's torture and Ryan's escape are true - and its these two brutal senarios that make the book a thrilling, and chilling, read.
