It is very common, and even necessary, to make mistakes while performing modeling or statistical studies. Some of these are easily corrected when one has the knowledge or expertise to understand that a mistake has been made. These could be designated as "blunders" and are part of the everyday life of a statistician or modeler. Other mistakes though are more serious, in that the investigator fails to recognize them and believes that the techniques used are valid for the problem that is studied. In addition, one can frequently fall into the trap of believing that mathematical or computational techniques or algorithms, whether done by hand or with the use of software, are always reliable and therefore require no independent checks or scrutiny. When statistical studies or modeling is done in an area where there is no danger to human or animal life, errors only have the effect of diminishing the validity of the study (and possibly the career of the investigator). In areas such as medicine and civil engineering however, errors in statistical studies can have serious ramifications for human life and safety, and therefore it is crucial that investigators be aware of how they arise and how to avoid them. 

This short book is very valuable in that it discusses many of the errors that can arise in statistical modeling and gives advice on how to avoid them in practice. It should be on the bookshelf of all practitioners, regardless of their accumulated years of experience or level of expertise. Sometimes it is difficult for modelers to admit that they have made mistakes, let alone admit that they need advice for performing tasks they may been doing for years. But it never hurts to acknowledge that certain practices, even if they are carved in stone, may not be applicable to certain situations, and this book gives examples of this that are drawn from real world experiences. The authors are careful not to patronize the reader, but they do not hesitate to point out some of the misadventures that have occurred in statistical modeling. Throughout the book they caution against a religious attitude about computer software and mathematical formalism, and give explicit examples of how unquestioned use of these can result in serious errors. This goes hand in hand with their belief, usually only implicitly expressed in the book, that time constraints (such as emergencies) and deadlines may restrict an optimal statistical analysis from being conducted, but that any analysis done using improper tools should not be christened as such by the statistician community. The length of the book of course prohibits an exhaustive analysis of statistical studies that have gone awry but the authors include references for the curious reader. 
