I am surprised that an American author puts that much time and emotion into a European subject. It can not possibly do him much good in terms of commercial success. Apparently, there was at least enough critical acclaim to consider it an artistic success.
I am not sure myself, if I fully "like" the novel, apart from the fact that I read it like a crime novel. Interesting, fascinating, yes. But: does it mean something or is it just pretentious? 
Does he have to play around with the narrator so much? One moment it sounds like WTV himself, including cocquetish apologies for interfering with the story, then, next line, it is somebody else, not always quite clear who. It seems arbitrary, not following a need of the story, nor of history. Sometimes it seems to be clear that the narrators are Russian or German police agents. Do they have to sound so vulgar and so anachronistically modern?
There is also a problem with the editing of this book. The explanation on sources mentions a chronology: where is it? Deleted? The contents list gives data for the chapters, which seem totally off. The story follows some chronological pattern, but the individual chapters overlap and interfere with each other. The data given in the contents are useless. There are also far too many typos, mainly in the German words.
The book is about the German/Russian conflicts in the 20th century. It uses real historical people to transport us through time, mainly Shostakovich, but also others like Krupskaya, Kollwitz, Akhmatova etc. It is strongly based in art history. You could say that the novel is about music and war. You also need to know the communist party history quite well.
If you do not already have fairly broad knowledge of these historical subjects, the book will be meaningless to you. There is not much explanation. Some of the stories are "parables", i.e. they assume the reader can help himself as far as backgrounds are concerned. In the age of the internet, that is largely true, but relies on a lot of motivation. How many readers can a writer have that way?
I do not think he handles the Germanic mythology well in relation to the German elements of the story/history. Interpreting Nazi ideology in the light of the Nibelungen or of Parzival does not go very far. It would have pleased them too much, let's not give them the honor.
I am also not happy with the cosy nicknames that WTV finds for the evil guys: sleepwalker, Uncle Wolf, the realist ... why are they, Hitler and Stalin, depicted in such cute terms? Sarcasm?
After all these complaints, why still 4 stars?
The core of the book consists of strong historical "stories", like the "biographies" of Shostakovich's 7th symphony, in the chapter called "The Palm Tree of Deborah". Like the mini-bio of Roman Karmen, or the one of the tragic General Vlasov, or the one of poor Paulus, or the deeply sad story of "holy fool" Gerstein.
Conclusion: yes. 
If only he had kept his scope to the mini-bios and staid out of the realm of mythology and of meaningful parables.

