I'd like to preface my review of this book by stating unequivocally that I am not, nor will I ever be a person who seeks intellectual or spiritual solace in the pages of a book.  In fact, I've always scoffed cynically at the poor lost sheep who spend hundreds of dollars in the hopes that one of those "Tony Robbins types" will lead them to the promised land.  It was with this skepticism that I began to read the pages of a book that will affect every aspect of my life for as long as I live.

My girlfriend recommended "Marshmallow" to me some time ago.  Because she is a woman whom I love and admire, I felt compelled to read this book that she credits so much for her strength and success.  Eventually, as most men in love do, I did as I was told; I read the book.

Then I read it again.  And then again.  Dr. De Posada somehow wrote my biography without ever having have met me.  He knew exactly which poor decisions I was making in my life, and eerily, he knew the thought process behind those decisions.  In a simple, concise, easy to read jewel, Dr. De Posada can teach anyone how to save money, rear children, or even lose weight just by applying one principle to all of their decisions, "don't eat the marshmallow...yet!"  If you can delay the immediate gratification, the "quick fix," you will be a happier and more successful person in life.  Why eat 10 Bic Macs a month when you can have one filet mignon for the same amount of money and a lot less fat?  Why buy the Rolex today when, if properly invested, you could use the money to retire tomorrow and own 10 Rolexes if you wished.

As a young attorney I found my self spending my new-found riches on things that simply will not last.  All I had left of the money I would spend were faint memories and hang-overs.  I was so anxious to immediately enjoy the fruits of my labor, that I failed to realize those fruits had not yet rippened.

Since reading this book I have made giant strides in becoming a "marshmallow resister."  The results can be measured by the resurgence of my once waning my bank account.  This doesn't mean that I have become a frugal, anti-social leper.  Quite the opposite, the quality of my life has improved.  Rather than drinking at the local bar 3 days a week, I go once a week and find that I enjoy it even more.  This is what the book makes you realize, that more often than not, less is more.  And that if you apply patience and discipline to your life instead of pleasing yourself every chance you get, you will be paid off in the long-run.

Buy this book.
(...)      
