Note please that my rating should be discounted as I have not rated the book. However I can address two harsh criticisms of it by John J. Geyer "jgeyer1". In that review here at Amazon we read:

" If a rampaging army storms through Canaan destroying city after city one would expect that the remains of those cities would show appropriate destruction layers and that the diplomatic archives of the surrounding countries would notice. There is nothing. "

Actually there is a very much evidence of such destruction to be found in city after city in the Holy Land, albeit at layers not deemed appropriate for the commonly accepted historical era of Joshua's invasion. 

However a quick google search on "Lisa Liel" or "Lisa JAH" will lead you to her website at http://www.starways.net/lisa/ 

Titled "Lisa's World", then click on "history", then "The Exodus in History" and scroll down to the chart of the Historical vs. the Biblical view of history of the Land of Israel". 

Immediately above that chart we read: "A simple redating of the archaeological periods in the Land of Israel brings the entire scope of biblical history into synchronization with the ancient historical record. Only time will tell whether more archaeologists will follow Cohen and Anati in their slowly dawning recognition of the historicity of the Bible". 

Pursuing the website in greater depth will quickly show you that the historical record is full of evidence, but again, that adjustment in dating mentioned is required. 

John J. Geyer "jgeyer1" also wrote this criticism: "For the bottom line, as the author acknowledges repeatedly, is that there is NO evidence confirming ANY part of the Exodus story."

But if Lisa Liel's dating shift is done to bring the historical Caanan archaeological evidence into sync with the Biblical, then the same exact time shift shows at the appropriate era in the separate Egyptian historical record this datum: *

 Plague is throughout the land. 
 Blood is everywhere. 
 The river is blood. 
 That is our water! That is our happiness! What shall we do in respect thereof? All is ruin! 
 Trees are destroyed. 
 No fruit or herbs are found... 
 Forsooth, gates, columns and walls are consumed by fire. 
 Forsooth, grain has perished on every side. 
 The land is not light [dark]. 

This authentic historical Egyptian record is of troubles plaguing that kingdom dated near the time of the first intermediate period of bloodshed and anarchy resulting from the collapse of the monarchy of the old Kingdom of Egypt. Lisa writes:

 "When the Bible tells us that Egypt would never be the same after the Exodus, it was no exaggeration. With invasions from all directions, virtually all subsequent kings of Egypt were of Ethiopian, Libyan or Asiatic descent. When Chazal tell us that King Solomon was able to marry Pharaoh's daughter despite the ban on marrying Egyptian converts until they have been Jewish for three generations because she was not of the original Egyptian nation, there is no reason to be surprised".

* "A.H. Gardiner, Admonitions of an Egyptian Sage from a hieratic papyrus in Leiden (1909). Historians are almost unanimous in dating this papyrus to the very beginning of the Middle Kingdom. The events it describes, consequently, deal with the end of the Old Kingdom".
 
