Tony Hillerman once again created a fresh and involving entry in his long-running series about the Navajo Tribal Police. Leaphorn has retired in this one, at loose ends after the death of his beloved wife Emma. Chee is the acting Lieutinent but may not want it to become permanent. There is a little less of the Navajo mysticism in this one but the vast territory covered by the Navajo Tribal Police is given its due as always.

Hillerman dedicated this book to the six officers who had given their lives in defense of their people from the time he wrote his first book until this one. It is only fitting that while keeping true to the Navajo atmosphere always present in this series, good police work, and the very real dangers involved for the Tribal Police are brought to the forefront.

Leaphorn is asked to look for the missing Catherine Pollard, and his unofficial case will intersect with Chee's investigation into an officer's death, that while seemingly all wrapped up, may indeed be more complex that it first appears. Chee is chagrined to discover he is still a little intimidated by Leaphorn, but as the two cases cross paths they will once again peel back a little more of the veneer and come closer to understanding each other.

This one has everything from the poaching of eagles to a very real possibility of the bubonic plague being spread all across the Navajo landscape. Why a pack of praire dogs are unaffected by the virus is only one of the clues to solving the mystery. An old Navajo woman who claims to have seen a skinwalker will also figure greatly into an exciting ending.

The conclusion to this one is heartfelt for Chee, as his relationship with the pretty lawyer Janet begins to flame out. Janet, it seems, returning to New Mexico after her time in Washington, may  be Navajo in name only. 

This is one of the best in the series as Hillerman once again paints the Navajo and the territory they inhabit with the colorful hues of the southwest, and explores the many mystical aspects of the American Indian
