As Sue Grafton continues her alphabet series, we've seen many changes in the main character, Kinsey Millhone. If you've been with Grafton since A IS FOR ALIBI like I have, you'll notice a more subdued Kinsey in this book. Since Kinsey no longer works for California Fidelity doing all of their investigative work, and her future is uncertain, her usual "edge" seems to have been dulled.  This is a disappointment - I enjoy the feisty Kinsey!

Sue Grafton introduces a new support cast to liven things up a bit as her detective series continues along its journey. Kinsey is hired to take over a seemingly boring case when a local private investigator dies of a heart attack and she must find the facts quickly before the statute of limitations runs out! She stumbles into a "whodunit" involving a dead artist, a husband tried and acquitted, and an ex-husband screaming "foul". It's up to Kinsey to figure it all out in the few weeks allowed by the court, and in the process to keep herself safe. This proves to be easier said than done in the writing style that we've come to enjoy and expect from Sue Grafton.

One of the things that I enjoy about Grafton is that she not only tells a great story, but at the same time she lays the foundation for future books. After becoming familiar with her writing style, you'll start to pick up on the tidbits of information that she brings out in the open only to read about those same facts in more detail in a future episode. It's almost as if her alphabet series is one very long novel with each letter of the alphabet being a chapter instead of a separate book - these read almost like Kinsey Millhone's diary. But then again, I can see why she's done it this way -- who would buy a book of 8,000 pages or so? It would be a little difficult to carry it to the beach, park or on an airplane!

Grafton has created yet another fantastic masterpiece with this tale. She's definitely on a hot streak with this book and it keeps you on the edge of your seat with a few twists along the way until the end!
