A mystery writer and his family are relentlessly pursued by a renegade profesional killer who may have some sort of psychic link to his quarry.  The person(s) for whom the killer had worked - and bolted from - also get involved.  I won't give away more as I don't want to spoil things for the reader.  

"MR. MURDER" (1993) is the eleventh Koontz book that I have read.  This novel employs the same style and has some similarities to both HIDEAWAY (1992) and DRAGON TEARS (1993) but transitions from supernatural ("nutcase antagonist with supernatural abilities") to science fiction (nutcase anatgonist for science-based reasons).  "MR MURDER" introduces the "up against a high-tech organization that can track you anywhere" idea that Koontz delves into more deeply with his next novel "DARK RIVERS OF THE HEART" (1994) which also has some similarities to this one.  So Koontz was in a slight rut during these years with his books not changing from one to the next as much as during his more inspired times.  The core ideas are actually original enough in each of the aforementioned books, but similarities arise in the way the ideas are subsequently fleshed out.  However, MR. MURDER is well-written and a little better written than his average book and a fun read. (I have never read a poorly written Koontz novel - he seems to be too much of a hard-working perfectionist to allow that to happen.)   

I would rank MR. MURDER against his other books that I have read as follows.  Note that I have a slight bias in favor of science fiction over horror and the supernatural.  In chronological order:
#1 WATCHERS (1987) - Top tier Koontz!  More frequently cited as his best novel than any other of his books and I totally agree.  Suspense/love story/horror/ action/science fiction. Outstanding character development, even by Koontz standards.  An absolutely wonderful dog.
#3 LIGHTENING (1988) - Inspired book with some of the same strengths as WATCHERS but a very different novel and almost as good. 
#5 HIDEAWAY (1992) - Antagonist has supernatural abilities. Some similararities to Dragon Tears. 
#9 DRAGON TEARS (1993) - Antagonist has supernatural abilities. The similarities to Hideaway make me rank it lower primarily because Hideaway was written first.  
#8 MR. MURDER (1993) - Fairly strong middle tier Koontz.  You can see the transition from Dragon Tears to Dark Rivers and it overlaps with both too much.  
#6 DARK RIVERS OF THE HEART (1994)  Science fiction-tinged conspiracy story with similarities to the movie "Enemy of the State".  
#2 INTENSITY (1996) - Top tier Koontz!  He breaks out his pseudo-rut with a vengeance.  2nd most frequently cited as his best book after WATCHERS.  A straight horror story which is not my favorite genre, but the quality of this work is very high. I though the title was pretentious until I read the book: wow INTENSE! 
#4 ODD THOMAS (2003) - Koontz's adoption of a rather different writing style is by many considered to work the best in this novel.  Supernatural.
#11 THE FACE (2003) - Very slow moving but excellent character development.  I had some trouble staying engaged in this one because it was so slow.  Still a pretty good book.  Supernatural.
#10 LIFE EXPECTANCY (2004) - Koontz's experimentation with a new writing style in the Odd Thomas direction. Has quirkiness and humor: he is competant at this, but humor is not Koontz's strength.  Strong character development.  Still a good book. No science fiction or supernatural stuff.  
#7 THE HUSBAND (2006) - Koontz had changed his style again. Fast paced page-turner at the expense of character development. No science fiction or supernatural stuff.  Ends too abruptly
