"The Pig Who Sang to the Moon" chronicles the plight of farm animals, particularly those in mass-market farms in the United States and New Zealand, though the author also is careful to discuss farming procedures and techniques from all over the world. The book is written from the pro-vegan point of view and is genuinely disturbing and eye-opening. 

I find myself in a conundrum in evaluating this book, and find myself agreeing with the vegan reviewer from Ontario that while the book is well written and heart-rending, it is not academically ground breaking other than in collecting the information in a species-specific chapter format. The author tends to rely on conjecture of animal feelings, preferences, and emotions to a degree that sometimes strain credibility, though the writing is generally excellent. He frequently dismisses anthropomorphism in others, but seems to engage in it frequently himself, and frequently engages in arguments and rhetorical questions that are tenuous at best, as on page 231 where he posits "If we kill animals with so little concern, what is to stop us from hurting one another?" Of course this is never addressed or discussed further, and I believe shows that while the author genuinely attempts to tell a factually accurate, yet moving, story, his biases are so prevalent as to call into question some of his conclusions. I don't believe that all farmers are evil (I am not involved with the agricultural industry, by the way), nor do I believe that all employees of companies like Cargill and ADM are evil.

Some of the chapters are better than others, and I particularly found the chapters of chicken, turkeys, ducks, and geese enlightening. The book makes clear the horrors of foie gras production, for example, and of all the parts of the book, I found this the hardest to bear. I never eat foie gras, and after reading the book am doubly glad that I don't. The book has many good points, and I am quick to stand up for it in areas such as habitability and humane treatment of animals on farms: the torture that some of these animals endure is heart-rending, but nothing short of evil. I agree with the author that stricter regulations are needed on farms, but stop short of his proposal to ban farming (other than crop farming) altogether, especially after reading his dietary proposals (tofu is featured prominently) and plans for transitioning to a vegan world, which are, at any rate, inadequately explained. 

I recommend that all the notes at the end of the book be carefully studied. Some special-interest groups which have recently been challenged with ethics issues of their own are taken at their word, and I am not convinced of the validity of their use as a primary source in a scholarly work. On the other hand, I do commend the author for attempting to obtain as much first hand information and primary documentation as possible in a very difficult research area. I believe the author is highly ethical and attempts to prove his arguments with unimpeachable sources; the problem obviously resides in the fact that often the only sources available are highly biased organizations sympathetic to his cause. 

There are some issues exposed (especially in the notes) that I do find troubling, however. In the main text, for example, the author regales the reader with tales of the intellect of turkeys, and discusses the myth that turkeys are so stupid that they will turn their heads skyward and drown in a rainstorm. I have to admit that I never knew of any incidents of this occurring first hand (I was around turkeys during a few summers in my younger years), and was happy that this was in fact an urban legend. (Or would that be a rural legend?) In the notes, however, the author explains that young turkeys actually will drown themselves by looking skyward in a rainstorm, and that this may be where the "myth" comes from. Well, I'd say so. The author then goes on (Page 247) to explain that this is man's fault because "without the protection of [the mother's] wings in a storm, [the chick] may well look up, inquiringly, or beseechingly, accidentally fill their small beaks with water and drown....no turkey chick should ever have to grow up without a mother." This illustrates all my objections to the book in one neat paragraph. In this one instance, the author refuses to put information he clearly knew to be contradictory to his central premise in the main body of the text, choosing rather to bury it in the notes at the back of the book. Once into the discussion he attributes intent and emotions to the young turkeys that he can't possibly know, and then goes on to explain that, in essence, the turkey's poor intellect (also in conflict with his central premise) is due to man putting him in an untenable situation. It is this type of conflict that makes me hesitant to recommend the book wholeheartedly and without reservation.

In the end I do recommend the book, but I recommend, as always, that readers use their own brains to look for logical holes in reasoning, and not merely accept the arguments, opinions, and feelings of the author automatically. I personally feel that Jeffrey Moussaieff Masson is a good-hearted, sincere man, with a gift for writing, and I think he has written a powerful book that deserves to be read and considered. On balance, and despite my critiques of the book, I recommend it for a condensed, interesting, and thought-provoking account of the emotional world of animals important to us all.
