Thomas Friedman's "Longitudes and Attitudes" is a very readable book based on a collection of columns he wrote for the New York Times just before the attacks of 9/11 and for the year following those attacks. The last quarter of the book contains a kind of diary in which he attempts to put into context where he was in the world when he wrote these columns and how he was personally feeling at the time. 

It is a very personal collection, often invoking the image of his children's future. Friedman's primary mission, as he relates it in meetings with educated people across the Middle East, is his search for the rationale of the terrorists, why they killed, and how they were radicalized.  He frequently relates how depressed he got when talking to educated Middle Easterners who unflinchingly believed in conspiracy theories of the highest order. The most common canard he constantly ran across was that four thousand Jews were notified on the morning of 9/11 not to go to the World Trade Towers. Another astonishing "fact" he constantly confronted from academics, clerics and the media in the Middle East was that there is no proof that Muslims were the 9/11 hijackers in the first place. In general, Friedman relates, most Muslims in the Middle East also believe that the attack was a plot by the CIA (or Jews) to discredit Muslims and that all the American media is run by Jews.

Throughout the book, Friedman does not shy away from the fact that he is Jewish. He is balanced and critical of both sides in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict - decrying the brutality of the Israelis and Palestinians and he especially singles out the stubbornness of Arafat in that Arab leader's failure to accept the Clinton peace plan, which would have given Palestinians a state encompassing 95% of what they asked for and could have stanched the bloodshed. 

Friedman relates his amazement that the Middle East is bombarded by an incessant 24-hour-a-day attack in the Arab media upon Israel and the United States, particularly via TV programs that run through the night simply playing martial music and showing images of Israeli brutality against Palestinians - which is always portrayed as one-sided. 

He is unabashedly and constantly critical of the Saudi Arabia regime, from which, we are frequently reminded, was home to 15 of the nineteen 9/11 hijackers. Friedman seems particularly upset that Saudi Arabia did not apologize for the involvement of its nationals in the attack against the US and has refused to cooperate with the FBI in their investigation. He also makes it abundantly clear that Saudi Arabia, along with Iran, seem to be in a race to provide money to Islamic madras's across the globe that teach virulent intolerance and hatred against America and Israel. 

Friedman doesn't simpy rail against the world as he sees it, he does prescribe some remedies for what he refers to as an ongoing "Clash of Civilizations," a term he borrows from Samuel Huntington.  If we don't address the tumult we find ourselves in and Usama bin Laden "wins," Friedman warns us that, "The war of civilizations will be coming to a theater near to you." 

First and foremost, he calls upon Arab nations to forge a new future for their citizens by letting go of the past and looking to the future. Too often Arab nations and leaders deflect true change by blaming all their troubles on someone else... their problems are America's fault, or Bush's fault, or Israel's fault and so on ad infinitum. True leaders in the Middle East should create plans for the future, not just laying blame for present and past real and perceived slights. Arab leaders should come up with plans for educating their children, making governments more responsive and creating jobs for the exploding number of young people in the Middle East. Friedman goads Arab leaders by saying things such as, while other emerging nations "make microchips, you are making potato chips," and that the GDP of Spain is greater than that of all 22 Arab states combined.

Friedman could be called a liberal hawk. He firmly believes in globalization, with a caveat that the Internet can be "an open sewer." He also believes that the concept of engaging and talking with your enemy is the only way that problems can truly be resolved. An example: The U.S. and Israel engaged Arafat and came up with a plan that gave the Palestinians a state encompassing 95% of what they wanted. This pleased Friedman the liberal. Arafat torched the olive branch that was extended to him and Friedman the hawk reminds us that Arafat had many maps that did not even show modern Israel on them. Friedman the hawk also applauded the fall of Saddam from a humanitarian viewpoint (reminding us that Saddam killed more Muslims in the 20th century than any other individual) and asked his readers to "give the CIA a break," and "give war a chance."

One of the most important ideas this book relates is that, unlike Christianity and the Jewish faith, Islam never went though Enlightenment or a Reformation. What this means is that Islam never separated church and state the way that the West has done and therefore Islam has not been able to move its society and culture forward because of the constant influence of clerics who can't effectively run a modern nation.

Lastly, the last quarter of the book that was written in a diary format was primarily a rehash of ideas spelled out earlier in the book -  merely reformatted to fit the geographic contours of where and when Friedman wrote his columns. This part of the book added little new information and seemed that it was almost an afterthought... an awkward attempt to tie together all the canned columns.
