A Point To Be Made: This is a somewhat unoriginal tale trademarked by Sheldon's predictable and telltale strategy of evoking shock by turning to archetypes and extremes. As usual, the important characters are extremely rich, extremely powerful, extremely successful at whatever endeavour they pursue, extremely beautiful, or naive, or intelligent, or all three, extremely cruel, extremely vindictive, or spiteful, or both, and extremely good schemers. Overusing the word extremely? Sure I am, and that is how you feel after reading Sheldon's book. Especially if you have read other books by him in the last year or so. Kate Blackwell (main character) is yet another strong female character whose light just will not be dimmed, just like all the other female characters with an unstinting fortitude Sheldon moulds to be masters of the game of life, in their own right. (In the story with the four female medical doctors as the central characters, which I really enjoyed and read in one sitting, one of the characters (unintelligent, never studied a day in her life) actually sleeps her way through high school! Then into medical school!! Then all through medical school!!! Then, when her fellow doctors realise she doesn't know the difference between rhinoplasty and a pap smear, she sleeps with them too. In what world is that remotely conceivable? Other than this noteworthy points, and especially if this is your first Sheldon book, there really is nothing wrong with the story, and it is well worth your time. Sheldon proves that he is capable of mastery in several aspects of the constituents required to write a brilliant novel, even if his ideas are old and battered from overuse now. Another aspect that worries is how Sheldon seems to be getting mushy around the edges. Remember how brutal his first stories were? With the Mafia shooting boys, pornographers strangling Dutch prostitutes and thieves crippling pianists? The strain is naturally still there, but boy has it been toned down and diluted. Enamoured by his female characters he has always been, certain intrinsic elements within Master of the Game seem to portray that this softness has now extended beyond its previous pattern of sympathy with female characters and begun to affect the way his stories turn out. Master of the game is a good book produced by a good writer, but Sheldon was certainly at his best in the days of Napoleon Chotas, so-called the finest legal mind in history. Like most writers, his first work (The Naked Face) is a fictional classic which paved the way for his other productions. Nevertheless, a good page-turner, fine effort. Official Rating 7.8 / 10 - Rounded up to four star
