Paul Hond's The Baker is a powerful and surprising first novel. Hond draws the world of Mickey Lerner, who runs a kosher bakery in Baltimore on the border between a Jewish neighborhood and a crime-ridden black neighborhood. He surrounds Lerner with solid, fully-drawn characters, complete with flaws, prejudices, and insecurities: Emilie, his cool French violinist wife; his undirected eighteen-year old son Benjie; Nelson, the teenaged, black driver for the bakery; and Donna, Nelson's gentle and voluptuous mother in whom Mickey sees the softness Emilie lacks.   Tribalism and the temptation and hazards of crossing tribal boundaries permeate The Baker-the clannishness of Hond's working-class Jews; the mutual suspicion in the novel's black/white relationships; and Mickey's strained relationship with Emilie, who is ever the outsider looking in even after two decades in the U.S.    Tom Wolfe's Bonfire of the Vanities quickly comes to mind, not only because of the common theme of urban race relations but more importantly because Hond shares Wolfe's gift of creating the voices of his characters, complete with dialect, accent, and cadence, and his use of voice to position his characters in society. Hond also adapts his style to capture his characters' emotions: Benjie's thoughts flow into Faulknerian run-ons during a moment of panic about Emilie's distance, Mickey's dialogue of incomplete sentences during a tormented trip of self-discovery to Paris.   The plot is as surprising as Hond's craft is deft. Hond creates a world of violence-physical aggression and abrupt decisions. Each plot turn comes as a complete surprise, such that the reader fully shares the characters' sense of shock. Because communication is more of a void than a bridge among Hond's characters, Mickey, Emilie, and Benjie announce decisions to one another, then leave the other to decipher the meaning. Emilie, in particular, is an enigma, and the deeply self-doubting Mickey and Benjie struggle to comprehend her distance.    Hond's Baker also teems with passion, sensuousness, and food. The pivotal moments of Mickey's life are marked by bread and pastry, beginning with the beautifully-drawn explosive, first sexual encounter between Mickey and Emilie on the flour-covered bakery worktable. If The Baker has one weakness, it is that the sexual imagery of food is at times heavy-handed
