This early Jane Austen novel is a satire among other things of the reading tastes of the Romantic Period's young, sending up their near addiction to improbable Gothic "horror" stories. Despite being grounded in such literary particulars, the novel remains an awfully good read. Contemporary college students in my experience think overwhelmingly that Austen is not just writing about Mrs. Radcliffe et al, but has much to tell them about life and taking one another seriously rather than playing at "relationships." Detailing the entrance of her naive, countryside heroine (Catherine) into the splendors and miseries of adulthood, Austen is here fully brimming over with her unmistakable satiric wit, charm, and astonishing worldly wisdom. Catherine, for instance, from the outset has already confounded life and art, so she is disappointed, to our delight, that on her first journey to Bath and grown-up experience, there's "not one lucky overturn of the carriage to introduce her to the hero."   Austen's women -whether naive (Catherine) or vain and coquettish ( fashion-hungry Mrs. Allen and men-with-money-hungry Isabella Thorpe)- are all well drawn, and equally so are her men, especially the boorish John Thorpe, an early example of the "it's all about me" guy, and the triumphantly witty, hard-headed, yet kind Henry Tilney. Astonishingly, Austen concluded very early as a novelist that it's only the few genuine individuals in life who follow a civilized code of manners, whereas most other people are in fact mere conformists devoted to the fashionable ways of the world, pursuing vulgar self-interest or greed, while thinking themselves smart for doing so.
A few years back, adaptations of Austen for the screen were all the rage. "Northanger Abbey" had earlier been the subject of an inferior TV adaptation, set in the proper time period but too heavy on the Gothic "horror" element and largely witless. So far as I know it has never been made into a film. Given the continuing fondness of the young for horror novels (Stephen King's, say) and now scary movies, I'd argue "Northanger Abbey" is a natural for an updated version (like "Clueless" was of "Emma") set perhaps among the young who leave home for the first time to attend college.  They too might initially expect life to resemble to some degree what they've encountered in their romances, "horror" novels and slasher films, only to be wittily disabused, but then to discover in fact the real ways life always and everywhere is actually "horrid," that is, owing to the timeless prevalence of vanity, self-absorption, and greed
