As noted by other reviewers, Fred Siegel's excellent "Prince of the City" is not a Giuliani biography so much as it is a broad sketch of New York City mayoral politics.  As such, we get more, for example, on the failings and flailings of the Dinkins administration than we do about Giuliani's personal life (which is a book in itself, surely) or his life as a prosecutor (the name Mike Milken appears twice, and - there again - that's a book in itself).

The triumph of Siegel's book is that although we take Giuliani's incredible mayoral triumphs as a given now, the author paints a clear, vivid picture of pre-Rudy NYC when conventional wisdom was that the City was 'ungovernable.'  Not only did Giuliani turn that argument into pap, his success had galvanizing effects in other locales across the country.  In San Francisco, for example, current mayor Gavin Newsom rose to power on the strength of his "Care Not Cash" initiative, something he stylized directly from Giuliani.  Newsom makes no bones about the fact that his campaign  was taken whole cloth from the Rudy playbook.

The other thing about Siegel's work is that it's instrumental in considering the chances of a 2008 Giuliani presidential run.  I'm appreciative of the fact that Siegel's book runs up to and through the Bernard Kerik as Homeland Security Chief fiasco.  Siegel isn't anti-Kerik and - to the contrary - paints his tenure as police chief in a very good light.  But, Giuliani's (and then Bush's) failure to vet the guy left the President with egg on his face and a mark against Rudy in terms of getting 2008 party nods.

In spite of this scandal, Siegel sets the scene perfectly for the reader on the last page of his work:

"Still, it's far too early to count Giuliani out.  His Machiavellian realism has given him the ability to play deftly with whatever hand he has been dealt.  His extraordinary management skills, his evolving speaking abilities, his prescient  stand on terrorism, and his appeal to moderate voters would all serve him well as a general election candidate.  He could campaign as few others can on a record of extraordinary accomplishments and a demonstrated ability to lead in a time of peril."

Perfectly stated.  Excellent work, Mr. Siegel.
