Field of Stats

Although the steroid scandal may have eventually accomplished the same thing, "Moneyball" destroys any persistent romance surrounding professional baseball. It's an antidote to all those paeans glorifying the love of the game: "The Natural," "Field of Dreams," even the raunchy lens of "Bull Durham."  Players don't rise and fall due to the nobility of their character, the sheer beauty of their swing, the sage advice of a wizened baseball scout, or even their batting average, per se.  What Moneyball does is show how the Oakland A's, and a few emulators, dismissed all this lore and culture in favor of multiple regressions and other advanced statistical tools. It's a fascinating book that could have been a dry one--full of detailed statistics and equations--except that Lewis cleverly balances the mathematical perspective with the same character studies that have graced sports biographies for years.

The book centers around former big league prospect Billy Beane, a man with great athletic ability who didn't make it in the bigs, partly because of his perfectionism and resulting temper.  Years later, Beane is the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, a team with stingy owners who'd rather save some bucks than buy a pennant (see "Yankees, The"). Faced with a shoestring budget, and enamored with the new baseball analysis cultivated by Bill James in his "Baseball Digest" system, Beane and his advisors invest in players as if they're brokers on Wall Street. James and other highly-educated baseball fanatics (often from Harvard, often lawyers or scientists with a mathematical bent) discover that the old wisdom wasn't all that smart:  Their analyses yield cold, objective facts, and suddenly, as in the old "Firesign Theater" skit, "Everything You Know Is Wrong."  It's not batting average and RBIs that are most important, it's on-base and slugging percentage that predict the one thing, the only outcome that matters--who wins.  Throw out fielding statistics--these are too dependent on luck and the kind of pitches served up. Furthermore, invest in bargains: Overlooked players who get to first through walks rather than singles (the phrase, "a walk is good as a hit," was never so true as it is here), guys who aren't great all-around players but who fill complete missing elements in your roster (sort of like diversifying your portfolio, Beane and others take their cue from a market mechanism known as "derivatives"), and those who otherwise don't fit into other GMs' and scouts atheoretical notion of what makes a great player. 

The results are convincing. With one of the least expensive teams in baseball, the A's repeatedly make the playoffs.  Beane acquires college players and castoffs from other teams like a man who collects trashy art, and XXX shows how his "I must be insane to offer you these bargains" style of purchasing ball players pays off, mostly through chapters devoted to one particular exemplar of Beane's philosophy.

There are a few problems with the book, as there are a few problems with the stats-driven approach to building your team.  The most egregious of these is Lewis' concentration on the successes predicted by statistics.  For a book driven by science, Lewis ignores the other 3 cells of the implicit 2x2 table of success/failure by "uses Beane method"/"doesn't use method."  The most significant is the failure/Beane method cell; Lewis just doesn't write about those players who didn't pan out as mathematically predicted.  The only examination of failure is Beane's rather clinical excuse for never advancing very far in the playoffs--in a short series (I.e., when N is small), luck (i.e., the statistical error) tends to become more powerful and empirical "truths" suffer as a result.  The fans suffer too, but their enjoyment of the game is always secondary to winning. Therefore, Athletics almost never steal bases (the percentages dictate no), and managerial and player judgment is minimized in favor of the all mighty victory.  You have to admit it works, but when Beane shrugs off the post-season failure question almost with a "that's not my job," you have to wonder whether "Moneyball" is enough.  Maybe it's just the best oine can do on a budget. (On the other hand, XXX Lewis to mention--even in his most recently written epilogue--that Beane's right hand man Paul DePodesta was fired after 2 seasons with the well-financed Dodgers.(A 71-91, 4th place finish in 2005 didn't help DePodesta.) Along with this bias towards success stories, XXX reveals a few bad writing habits.  He'll sometimes describe something with  sentences repeatedly beginning with the word "that."  As in: "That the book doesn't look enough at failures. That the book was a best seller.  That the book was reportedly misunderstood by many when published."  Lewis also lapses into a high-falutin' prose style, somewhat emulating "King James"--Bill James of the pioneering Baseball Digest school of analysis.  

Still, "Moneyball" deserves its reputation and its sales. Beane's number-crunching, myth-busting approach isn't always pretty, but it makes sense and meets the bottom line of both winning and preserving capital. An excellent and accessible book that has it both ways, an argument for using "cold" higher math in sports, and a spirited study of the ballplayers who add value to the original purchase, and the GMs who know what it takes to buy low and sell high.
