This new edition of philosopher / psychologist William James most enduring work, `The Varieties of Religious Experience' should show that this book is as valuable today as it was over 100 years ago when it was first published in 1902. William James is credited with being a philosopher as he gets credit for being the cofounder, with friend Charles Saunders Peirce of the distinctively American philosophical position of `Pragmatism'. In fact, William James is much more of a psychologist than a philosopher who contributed, with Sigmund Freud, to the separation of clinical psychology from philosophy into a distinct discipline. This means that while Wm. James' philosophical works were a bit amateurish when compared to professional Peirce, his knowledge of the history of philosophy is profound and this knowledge pervades and elevates this work of psychology subtitled `A Study in Human Nature'.

I will be immensely pleased if this little review convinces a single person to discover the richness of this work as I did when I first read it over 40 years ago when I was in High School. It probably reinforced my interest in becoming a professional philosopher. While I never got my philosopher's union card (Ph.D.), my interest in the subject stays alive and my regard for this book continues to grow.

The original work is based on a series of twenty (20) Gifford lectures on natural religion presented by Wm. James to an audience at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. This is no small honor to James, as it represents a reverse of the traditional flow of original intellectual work from Europe to the United States.

`Natural Religion' is probably a term not often used in academia today. It has probably disappeared by being split into philosophy of religion (which is something quite different from Theology) and main stream clinical psychology. And, I have a bit of a suspicion that this study may actually have fallen into obscurity by simple neglect or embarrassment similar to the embarrassment overcome by Dr. Kinsey when he did his study of sexuality. It may be that the very act of studying religion may be seen as blasphemous. If this musing is correct, then I feel even more strongly that a knowledge of James arguments and findings cannot be more important than they are today with the growing influence of fundamentalists and issues over the separation of church and state. This book does not solve those issues, but knowledge of this book can help clarify the issues in the minds of people who deal with policy in this area.

The first thing to understand about this book is its point of view. And, the title says it all. It is about `religious experience' and how this is different from, say, scientific observation, artistic experience, or even erotic experience, although there are probably some very strong family resemblences between religious, artistic, and erotic experiences. That means the book is not about doctrines, liturgy, theology, myths, language, or political leanings. To a great extent, James shapes what he means by religion by the scope of his inquiry. In Lecture II, James goes to great lengths to caution his audience on not putting to rigid a framework on the subject before the investigation gets underway, as the investigation may take one into unexpected directions. But, one can hardly begin unless there is a starting point. Even the simplest experiment begins with a supposition, as when you go about measuring the effects of heat on sugar, you assume that melted sugar will always behave the same way at a given temperature. So, in Lecture III, James characterizes `...the life of religion in the broadest and most general terms possible, one might say that it consists of the belief that there is an unseen order, and that our supreme good lies in harmoniously adjusting ourselves thereto. This belief and this adjustment are the religious attitude in the soul.' Like James, I am neither an anthropologist nor historian of religions, but I do get a slight sense that this statement has slanted his inquiry toward those religions where a strong single godhead is the most important belief. I may be wrong, but I sense James definition may be leaving out things like Zen Buddhism. But, I believe this simply makes the work more interesting an object of contemporary study.

Of one thing I am certain. This starting point clearly makes the phenomenon of mystical experience the central object of interest in these lectures. Throughout lectures IV to XV, many points are deferred to a full discussion of mysticism that takes up two full lectures, XVI and XVII. I confess this focus is part of my interest in this book, as one of my high school fantasies was to join a contemplative monastic order, and I wasn't even Catholic. And, here comes the discovery of an important work by an American intellectual icon on precisely the subject that so enthralled me at the time.

James four (4) characteristics of mystical experience set the stage for his final conclusion that arises from this definition as inexorably as the curvature of space arises out of Einstein's theory of gravity. The characteristics are:

1. Ineffability. The experience defies expression in words.
2. Noetic quality. They give the sense of knowing about something that those who did not have a similar experience cannot know.
3. Transiency. Mystical experiences cannot last very long.
4. Passivity. While voluntary rituals or practices may bring on the experience, once the experience begins, the mystic's own will shuts down and experiences are directed by some superior power.

In case advocates of religion belittle this clinical approach, I would mention that philosophy has successfully demolished all logical arguments for God, while the evidence of mystics survives to this day.

James philosophical works are nothing more than history. His other psychological works have been superseded by the progress of new work in clinical psychology. This book is as alive today as it was 100 years ago!
