Edmund Wilson once expressed his contempt for detective fiction by asking about one of Agatha Christie's books, in a wrongheaded and curmudgeonly burst of annoyance, "Who Cares Who Killed Roger Ackroyd?"  And there are still no doubt those readers who find Harry Potter too juvenile, silly, trivial or marginal to care about Dumbledore or any other HP character.  But people with any degree of interest at all will find this book a feast of information, speculation, and background.  

Just don't make it your first critical exposure to the HP series.  The editor, John Granger, has previously written a couple of outstanding books on the HP series; it's worth checking them out, too, since they're perfect for beginners, whereas "Who Killed Albus Dumbledore?" which gets into nuance and presupposes familiarity with detail, is for more seasoned HP readers.  Better than any other writer I know, Granger has correlated HP to wider literary influences, patterns, and sources, and, in his "Looking for God in Harry Potter," he spiritedly defended the series  as a profound spiritual enactment of heroic, self-sacrificing action when it was under attack.  In arguing the presence of age-old redemptive story lines and placing them in a whole context of Western culture, especially the misunderstood practice of alchemy, Granger has persuaded me (and many other readers) that the HP series -- enthralling and wonderfully entertaining as it is -- holds serious value expressed by Rowling with profound spiritual insight and consummate artistic skill.

In this volume, Granger collaborates with five other HP experts to show that what we think we saw might not be the reality and to speculate with tight reasoning on detailed evidence about Rowling's crucial technique of making us believe that what we see through Harry's eyes -- limited and incomplete evidence -- is only part of the whole picture.  The subtitle sets the theme: "What Really [underscore] Happened in 'Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince?'"  The key is, as Granger argues, deliberate and skillful "narrative misdirection."  

Other topics include Wendy B. Harte's analysis of the curse on the Black family tree, an essay rich with informed speculation about the actual role of the Black family.  If only the other members were like Sirius!  Have they been serving Voldemort or not?  Harte's comments take us to the question of what happens in the seventh volume; none of the topics can avoid spilling over into guessing how the series must end.

Sally M. Gallo shows how Dumbledore and Slughorn cooperated to create a brilliant illusion, a beautifully planned deception, just as Joyce Odell weighs the evidence that the events on the tower could be a conspiracy to mislead.  What Harry witnesses may be pure stage magic.  But mislead whom? and why?  You have to read it to find out.  Daniela Teo sets out to identify the remaining horcruxes and show how to get to them.  Is Harry himself a horcrux, as so many have surmised?  Read about it here.  Read, too, Swythyv's comments on the Nymphadora Tonks-Remus Lupin romance, which -- surprise! -- is anything but what it seems.

And don't miss the chapter "Great Expectations," where all the participants explicitly predict what the last volume will bring.  The diagram on pages 218 and 219 is not to be missed, and it will be really fun later on to compare its predictions with actual developments when the book is published.

Although there's plenty here to satisfy advanced devotees, and while the speculation turns on smallish points at times, you can be certain that the issues are never picayune.  Whole theories of perception and analysis are brought into play, and the entire volume is as serious in its methods as it is exhilirating (and sometimes exasperating) in its ingenious guesswork and analysis.  After Granger's first couple of books, no interested reader could ever take the HP series for anything but a major achievement, and this volume deepens the analytical seriousness and the literary insight while keeping a great sense of joy in reading.

If you're past the introductory phases of what's too lightly called fandom, you will treasue this book.  Hurry and get it now so you can compare it with the actual seventh volume.  Keep an eye out, too, for Granger's forthcoming book; it has the best analysis of postmoderism ever, and I've read plenty!



