In Zoe Heller's novel, "Everything You Know" middle-aged British writer Willy Muller is living in California. He's experiencing a nasty bout of writer's block, which doesn't help the looming deadline for his latest glitzy celebrity biography. Willy has also just sold the screenplay of his infamous memoir "To Have And To Hold." The 'tell all' memoir records Willy's version of his miserable marriage to Oona (she died when her head smashed into a refrigerator handle during a domestic squabble), Oona's impossible alcoholism, Willy's trial and subsequent imprisonment for Manslaughter, and his successful appeal and release. 

Willy Muller is a man who has a lifetime habit of not facing certain unpleasant facts about himself. He doesn't bother much with self-analysis, and there are times when aspects of his own personality strike him as curious. But Willy doesn't stop and dig further for answers; he accepts that he's cantankerous, unfaithful, and often gratuitously unkind. But since he's surrounded himself with people he cares nothing about, then by extension, it doesn't matter to Willy if he ever hurts someone. Other people just aren't that important. Willy's long-time girlfriend, Penny, for example, is a person who doesn't matter. He doesn't particularly like her, finds her mildly annoying, and even distasteful; her many cheap plastic surgeries give her "a perpetual expression of parched exhilaration." Willy often wonders why Penny sticks around, but he doesn't care enough to ponder this question for more than a few seconds. 

Following a heart attack, Willy begins to examine his sordid past when he receives a stack of journals written by his youngest daughter Sadie. Willy is estranged from both of his daughters--so estranged, in fact that he experiences only mild curiosity when he is told that Sadie committed suicide. Willy begins to read the journals, and through his dead daughter's memories, he is gradually forced to come to terms with his past and accept the responsibility for his selfish actions.  

"Everything You Know" is a phenomenal novel--the plot could so easily have degenerated into maudlin ruminations, but Heller's novel is much more complex than that. The novel's power is centered in its narrator, Willy. He's intelligent, and funny, but he's also rewritten his past into a version of events he can live with. And this works--just as long as he's not forced to analyze the past.  Moving to another continent and  surrounding himself by superficial people helps Willy indulge his sanitized version of events. Willy's ironic and often-nasty observations are an utter delight. His vicious comments spare no one, and his descriptions of various body parts are hilarious. Willy obsesses over his "withering body." He notes that his stomach--which was "a sagging adjunct", is now "striving for absolute autonomy" and it settles "in a puddle of flesh" at his side "like an affectionate haggis."  Willie's soured but witty world-view allows this very serious novel to be absorbed with both delight and anticipation. He's not an admirable character, but Willy's poignant story and gradual acceptance of his past actions is a fascinating study in human nature, and redemption. I was glued to the very last page, and I cannot recommend this book highly enough--displacedhuman
