Rachel Remen's extraordinary book " My Grandfather's Blessing" is about blessing life through service. Not through the service that is dramatic or larger than life, but through the simple ordinary actions we can do for others. She says, "Big messages come in small packages. All it may take to restore someone's trust in life may be returning a lost earring."
Remen says, "Survival is about safety living is about risk." Her stories show us how to choose life. Her pearls of wisdom include: 
"Living is a matter of passion and risk. Of finding something important and serving it...of doing whatever is needed in order to live out loud. Caring deeply makes us vulnerable. 
If you carry someone else's fear and live by someone else's values, you may find that you have their lives.
 Our vitality is rooted in our integrity. When we do not live in one piece, our life force becomes divided." She says people's lives are often changed by significant illness as they gather strength when they change their values.       
"It is surprising how easy it is to forget that every life matters, that we are each one of a kind and worthy of unconditional love.
The Hebrew word "L'chiam" which means "To Life!" seems less about celebrating life and more about the wisdom of choosing life. 
People die in character in much the same way they have lived.
Spiritual experience is not taught; it is uncovered, discovered, recovered. 
People of vision may first need to abandon their resentment of the way things are in order to begin repairing the world.
Helping and fixing wounds people-service heals.
It is hard not to see the person you are helping as someone weaker than yourself, someone more needy.
Seeing yourself as a fixer may cause you to see brokenness everywhere. We can strengthen or diminish the life around us.
A helping relationship may incur a sense of debt, but service, like healing is mutual. 
We strengthen life any time we listen generously or encourage someone to find meaning.
In befriending life, we do not make things happen according to our own design. We uncover something that is already happening and create conditions that enable it.   
In the face of that which is beyond healing...all we can do is bear witness so no one need suffer alone.
I've spent many years learning how to fix life, only to discover...that life is not broken. 
The denial of a common vulnerability is the ultimate barrier to compassion.   
Hell is where people have forgotten how to bless one another. 
The molecules in you and me...are secondhand, borrowed for the occasion and returned when outgrown.
All things can be made holy. Buried in the mundane and even the most difficult is a spark of God.
Silence is a place of great power and healing. Silence is God's lap.    
When we grow in wisdom and love we become a blessing to those around us and a light in this world."  
