Old villains return and new ones make their debut in the eight volume of"Negima," where even more problems await the young wizard teacher. Ken Akamatsu is in top form as he reveals some of the secrets of Negi Springfield's past, and provides a sinister new villain for future battles.

After every training session with Evangeline, Negi comes back exhausted. Asuna and other students follow him one day -- and get sucked into Evangeline's "resort," outside of normal time. During their visit, Negi tells Asuna his tragic life story, and why he is so determined to be strong. Meanwhile, students Natsumi and Chizure stumble across a stray puppy -- who turns into a fevered, naked Kotaro Inugami.

The girls take care of Kotaro, but the amnesiac dog-boy can't help them for long. The sinister Graf arrives, and his jelly-like demons start kidnapping girls important to Negi... including Asuna. Negi and Kotaro put their feud aside to challenge the Graf and get the girls back. But will Negi be able to prevail against the Graf, when the learns the old man's place in his darkest memories?

The eight "Negima" volume has  plenty of the slapstick, innuendo and goofiness that you'd expect from Ken Akamatsu's storytelling. However, this volume ventures into darker territory, and illuminates characters whose backgrounds were only hinted at before this.

He also explores Negi's past heartbreaks and losses, and his fruitless quest to find his father. It goes a long way toward explaining how a ten-year-old could be so mature. The scene where four-year-old Negi sees his uncle die, and cries "Father" at the sky, is heartbreaking. Akamatsu makes  these scenes sorrowful but not maudlin; his talents are obviously not limited to comedy.

It also features the return of Kotaro Inugami, a feisty dog-eared kid who seems like Inuyasha's baby brother. He's also got a rough past, and finds a weird kind of haven among the girls of Negi's class... even if he and Ayaka get along like fire and dynamite. Not to mention that Akamatsu reveals a massive secret about Asuna, and a possible use for Konoka's healing skills.

But the advances of the plot are the best of all -- the Graf and his jellylike minions have a very sinister connection to Negi, and a lot of power at their disposal. Especially when you consider what the Graf is -- a horrific demon whose real appearance is onlyseen for a few minutes. If Akamatsu brings him back to clash with Negi, the story may grow even more amazing.

The only flaw is the translation. I understand the translators' desire to keep it genuine by keeping honorifics in the dialogue. But when a Welsh child addresses an old Welsh man and a young Welsh woman -- while in Wales -- it sounds very strange to hear him using Japanese honorifics. "Grandpa Stan" would have worked a lot better than "Stan ojii-chan."

The eighth volume of "Negima" takes our hero into new and terrifying adventures, and the series into better territory. Excellent work
