Willie Morris was many things, but how he ended up said less about him and more about the culture from which he sprung.  By that I mean the South can take a heavy toll on its sentient sons and daughters.  Larry L. King provides us with Willie's story in fine fashion but does miss that ineluctable truth- to use a favorite word of Morris'.  Now let me say a thing or two about this Mississippian whose work I have read in full.

I would like to defend Willie Morris against two types of readers.  There is the one kind who sees him as a defender of the South and another who remarks only upon his descent from the literary heights.  He did do both, but that was only part of his odyssey.  

Morris wrote North Toward Home, perhaps the finest autobiography produced by the last of the southern gentleman.  The book holds no punches and reflects unflinchingly on what it means to be both southern and American.  It should be required reading for everyone here in these United States.  We might be a better country for it, and you cannot say that for many books.

After that work, Willie didn't come close in his writing efforts.  However, North Toward Home endures and will endure.  Most big time editors cannot say that, and I am struck by how the famous folks who surpassed him- Halberstam, for example- have never written anything on the level of North Toward Home.  The Best and the Brightest is a fine book, but it is a far remove from literature. North Toward Home reminds me of C. Vann Woodward's comment, "all historians are failed novelists."  A last gentleman as well, Woodward could write those words from the marrow of his bones.  Our present age is too literal for that to still ring true, but it does in Morris's case, even if it be autobiography, not history per se.

Finally, a word about Willie's last years.  Yes, I heard him called a drunk.  I grew up only about 75 miles from Oxford in the Delta town of Tunica.  His alcoholism didn't cut much ice with me, though.  After all, Faulkner was called the same.  You would be hard pressed to find a southern writer worth his salt who didn't have a fondness for the bottle.  Maybe Willie was more fond than some, but I bet Faulkner would have drunk him under the table- even if they never actually met.  My hunch is Willie had said it all and then some in North Toward Home.  There wasn't much more for him to say.  That would be a tough burden, especially if you were the genius Morris was.  Even Faulkner didn't produce much quality after his torrid pace in the late '20's and early '30's.

Moreover, Willie came home.  He may not have been the finest teacher, but his influence on Oxford, Ole Miss, and Mississippi was enormous.  He inspired Donna Tartt, wrote about Chucky Mullins, assigned pretty coeds Pery's "The Moviegoer", and helped put Square Books on the map.  Yes, indeed, Willie's legacy endures.  For my money, despite his lack of material fame and fortune, "the bitch goddess success", that his peers may have gained, Morris did as well in a larger sense, if not better.  

RIP, Willie, and thanks from a fellow Mississippian.

