In 1949, when Doris Kearns was six and living in Rockville Center, NY, her father taught her how to chart and score a baseball game, the primary (radio) entertainment of her community.  In these years, it was baseball that unified the local community, though whether one was loyal to the Brooklyn Dodgers, as Kearns was, the NY Yankees, or the NY Giants was a different matter.  For Kearns Goodwin, the youngest in the family, it was baseball which served as her ritual connection to her father, since she sat with him after dinner each night and related the scoring of that day's game.  

It is to these baseball narratives that she attributes her early interest in data collection and in story-telling (since she discovered her father stayed interested when she could keep him in suspense), traits which she believes helped make her the world-renowned historian she has become.  As she describes her life during 1949 - 1956, when either the Dodgers or the Giants played in the World Series, usually against the NY Yankees, she connects her life at home and in the community with her fierce love of the Dodgers, and especially her hero, Jackie Robinson.

Showing how team loyalties were related to the social structure of her town, Kearns Goodwin characterizes the friendly rivalries within the community.  Becoming the official "window" scorekeeper one summer for the local butcher shop, in which the two butchers, Giants fans, kept the neighbors up to date re the Giants record, Kearns Goodwin ("Ragmop"), then eight, was the "official" scorekeeper for the Dodgers.  The high point of her baseball "fan-dom" was the Dodgers win over the Yankees in 1955 for the World Series championship, when she was twelve.

Throughout this remarkable memoir, Kearns Goodwin connects her family life to baseball.  Her father's sad life before his marriage, in which he was orphaned at a young age; his love for her mother, always ill as a result of childhood rheumatic fever; her devotion to her older sisters; and her interest in family history are all connected in her mind (and in this memoir) with baseball.  Her trips to Ebbets Field, where she sought autographs; her adolescence, in which her interest in baseball competed with her interest in boys; and the importance of baseball in her life following the death of her mother, attest to the cultural allure of the "all-American pastime."  

Capturing a moment of social history, Kearns Goodwin puts the early fifties into perspective, and shows the lasting importance of baseball on her professional and personal development.  A remarkable memoir by one of the all-time great baseball fans. n Mary Whipple


