I was somewhat unfamiliar with Eckhart Tolle before initially reading this book a few months ago. I had heard of his book "The Power of Now," and I had listened to a bit of it on CD in a friend's car. However, I didn't feel that I thoroughly understood the subject he was discussing. At this point though, I did know his name and a little about his life's work.

I was in the airport in Los Angeles and I had a few moments before making my way to the gate to catch a flight. I always take a book and a magazine or two with me whenever I fly, as I find it's a great opportunity for me to catch up on the infinite pile that's always within arm's reach of my bed. I don't recall exactly what I was reading at the moment, but I do recall that I was thoroughly engaged in reading something that I was at the time, enjoying.  Since I had these few minutes before making my way to the gate, I went to the bookstore in the terminal and browsed through all of the latest editions to come on the market. 

As I was browsing, I noticed a rather striking orange cover with a large "Eckhart Tolle" on it. Since I had recently become familiar with his previous book, I decided to pick it up and read a few pages. At once, I was thoroughly engrossed. 

I put the book back on the shelf, and decided since I had a book with me to finish reading, when I got home I would get on Amazon.com and order Eckhart's latest book to read at some point in the future. 

I started walking to my gate but I kept feeling a "tug at my sleeve" to go back and buy that book and read it on my short trip to San Francisco. I got to my gate and I pulled the book I was reading out of my briefcase, opened it to the dog-eared page where I previously left off and began to read on. For some peculiar, compelling reason, I couldn't get Tolle's new book out of my head. I was overwhelmed by a feeling that I really should go back to the bookstore and by that book. After a few moments of this, I said to myself "I must have that book now!" So, I rushed back to the bookstore, bought the book, and began reading it at once. 

After I settled in on my short flight from LAX to San Francisco, I began reading again, and I got to page six, in the first chapter, where Eckhart says:

"This book is about you. It will change your state of consciousness or it will be meaningless. It can only awaken those who are ready. Not everyone is ready yet, but many are, and with each person who awakens, the momentum in the collective consciousness grows, and it becomes easier for others. If you don't know what awakening means, read on. Only by awakening can you know the true meaning of the word. A glimpse is enough to initiate the awakening process, which is irreversible. For some, that glimpse will come while reading this book. For many others who may not even have realized it, the process has already begun."

Wow.

I was so taken by this paragraph and by the overwhelming feeling to go back to that bookstore and purchase this book-I knew this was going to resonate with me deeply.

I've now read the book twice and also bought it on CD and listen to it quite frequently.

This is a book that will change your life.
