I would have to say that it is sadly not surprising that Liza and Mr. Oshell respond to Calvin's Institutes in the manner found in each of their reviews.  As mentioned by J. Oh, the primary problem is that there are many commonly held misconceptions about Calvin and many different views on what it means to be a Christian.  Let me start off by saying that I readily admit that the Institutes are not an easy read.  But neither is the Bible, nor most things of substance.  The time and style in which the books were written only compound the problem for modern readers (though this translation does much to remedy the situation).  I think no doctrine is so commonly misunderstood as predestination.  First, it should be noted that predestination is not, despite what Oshell and Liza claim, a creative interpretation out of line with Christian thought.  In fact some have argued, and I tend to agree, many aspects of it were held by the early church fathers as may be witnessed in their attacks on Pellagianism.  In other words, predestination was considered a central part of Christianity since the time of Christ.  Second, the opposite understanding leads to the conclusion that salvation is based upon our own acts, which is perhaps the greatest example of the sin of pride--putting one's self above God.  Third, no where in the Bible can one find anything against the notion of predestination.  Finally, predestination is specifically mentioned several times in the Bible including Ephes. 1:3-5; Romans 8:28-30; 1 Cor. 2:7; Acts 4:27-28.  In addition, there are countless other mentions of God's foreknowledge and Christ's choosing us prior to our choosing Him throughout the Bible.  Simply because the modern churches are too caught up in the feel good message of "be a good person and be saved" or the more subtle message of "God will reward you for your faith," when improperly understood, does not at all attack the substance of the Biblically sound doctrine of predestination.

The legalistic manner (including the near overclassification of his theological subject) in which the Institutes are written is a better explination why many modern Christians have difficulty following Calvin...this I feel is the only place where his humanistic/legalistic background impedes his work; for the logical and precise exegises of the Bible does not always require as much classification.  That being said, however, in some respects it is this very thuroughness that makes the Institutes a must read.

Also, finally in response to the notion that predestination = salvation by chance...I might suggest reading Jonathan Edwards' "Freedom of the Will" wherein is made a forceful argument that it is the lack of predestination which leads to salvation by pure chance.    
