I thought I had kept up with most of the major trends of discovery in the biological sciences. But this book explains research findings I haven't seen reported anywhere else. Some of these findings could save lives.

For example, Ridley explains some new research about the effectiveness of radiation/chemotherapy on cancer patients. Everyone faced with a diagnosis of cancer should read this chapter. Ridley says that scientists have found chemotherapy doesn't kill cancer cells directly. No, rather it works (to the extent it does) in a more roundabout way. It kills all sorts of cells in random fashion and thereby creates debris fragments. The presence of this debris then triggers still functional cells to turn on their "TP53" genes. It's these genes that direct the manufacture of an enzyme that destroys cells recently launched on their transformation into cancerous cells.

However, if a person's cancer has already progressed far enough along its course that the TP53 gene itself has mutated and been disabled - then treating that person with radiation/chemotherapy is generally worse than useless. The treatment can't trigger any TP53 genes into action. The patient just ends up enduring a debilitating series of treatments to little or no avail. So Ridley suggests that everyone faced with having to undergo radiation/chemotherapy be tested for TP53 damage first. If the tests show that their TP53 gene has already been compromised, then the chemotherapy couldn't help them much and shouldn't be attempted.

I have recently driven numerous people to hospital appointments after they have been diagnosed with cancer. But I am not aware that a single one of them was tested for TP53 damage before being launched on their grueling regimens of radiation/chemotherapy. If Ridley's information is correct, I would think that this sort of screening would be crucial. But as in so many other areas, I suppose it is up to the individual patient to educate himself. And this book makes an excellent, eye-opening first step in that process.

Ridley goes on to present some chapters on alcoholism that similarly could have practical applications. If what he says is true, some forms of alcoholism definitely have a genetic base - so it isn't very helpful to address these cases with the lengthy rounds of psychoanalysis, ego-boosting, or religious intervention that are currently being used. Ridley offers a very interesting hypothesis about why this alcoholism gene may be more prevalent in certain population groups than in others. But you'll have to read these ideas yourself and form your own opinion about whether they are "Just So" stories. 

The main thesis of this book though is that - sex matters. Here again, I hadn't read much about this emerging understanding anywhere else. But it seems that a gene can behave differently in our bodies, depending upon whether we got that gene from our mothers or from our fathers.
 
Ridley sees these differential effects as another manifestation of the ongoing war between the sexes, this time being waged on the cellular, molecular level. The male's body and his Y chromosome try to maximize the number of viable offspring the male will have, regardless of the cost to his mate - and vice versa. 

Again, this may turn out to be largely a Just So story. But except for one rather confusing, contradictory chapter on prions, Ridley presents all his material, both fact and interpretation, in a lively, readable form. I think you will certainly be enlightened and entertained by this book. And it may even save your life.
