While this book is focused on the future, the author from time to time writes of events in the past, to give context to the present situation and the predictions for the future that he makes.  I learned a lot of history I did not know, as well as learned about the practices found in Christianity found throughout the world today.

The book's premise that Christianity will become centered in the Southern Hemisphere in this century, breaking away from its previous Western European/North American focus, makes sense to me.  It makes a lot more sense to me than the contention of John Shelby Spong and those of a similar stripe, that Christianity is dying and therefore must become "modern" to survive.  The Christianity that Spong sees may be dying in Western Europe and North America, but this book by Jenkins gives hope that Christianity will thrive among people with more faith.

I think that this is a book that JOURNALISTS especially should read, as well as academics who analyze world events.  Jenkins points out something that I see already, that future government leaders, academics and such in the West will not even comprehend the events of the world because religion is off their radar screen.  This book made much sense to me in light of the Denmark Mohammed cartoon controversy.  Because they and others were clueless as to the meaning of religion to Muslims, they were clueless as to the response their actions would generate.  While this book is about Christianity primarily, still I've seen in other news coverage the complete absence of great conflicts, or when conflicts are covered, they totally miss the point of the conflicts because religion is off their radar screen.  This book could help put religion on the radar screen of journalists and academics.

For Christian readers, the value of this book is in preparing for the "New World Order," so to speak, in Christianity, where the direction of the church will be decided by those in Africa and Latin America and Asia more than those in the West.  Jenkins describes how this Christianity is likely to appear; for some it will be easy to accept, but for others it will look far different from what they are accustomed to.

I highly recommend this book as an informed, well thought out look at the changes we are likely to see in this century, particularly in Christianity, but also in the world as a result of the influence of Christianity coming from new locations
