John Quincy Adams had a really amazing career of public service.  Being the son of one of our country's founding fathers and second president John Quincy Adams had a lot of advantages.  But it was his intelligence and hard work that merited him his many positions.  

It's almost hard to fathom all the public positions held by JQA in his life.  From a legislator in Massachusetts, to a long and distinguished career as a diplomat in Europe - most notably Russia where he was a close confidant of the Tzar Alexander - to Secretary of State, sixth President of the United States, and U.S. Congressman.  He even turned down an appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Relying heavily on a very personal diary JQA kept nearly his entire adult life, this biography delves deeply into the psyche and private life of JQA, giving us an intimate portrait of his personality, family life, religious beliefs, and even some of the things that shaped his thoughts and personality.  We literally follow JQA in his day to day life.  The biography, as it stands, is extremely interesting.

The downfall of the book is that it does not deal enough with JQA's politics.  We end up knowing far more about JQA's religious beliefs at the end of the biography than we do about his political thought.  A perfect example is that JQA, as Secretary of State, was the primary influence behind the Monroe Doctrine dictating that European powers could no longer attempt to influence politics or colonize countries in the Western Hemisphere.  Other than crediting JQA for this, the author does nothing to explore the details of how this extremely important political stance came about.  

Further, while JQA's presidency may have been somewhat of a failure - mostly because he was a president elected not only by a minority of voters but a minority of the electoral college as well - it certainly deserved more than one chapter of the book.  And that chapter is almost devoid of political analysis.  (Note the House of Representatives ended up choosing the president since none of the candidates had a majority of electoral college votes, therefore JQA's power was significantly weakened and his presidency was one where the legislative branch was dominant).  This biography begs for second volume just about JQA's public or political life.  

Despite that flaw I did find the biography fascinating.  It certainly did give one an appreciation for JQA's pragmatism and irascibility, which are clear in his political stances and behavior.

Two pieces of trivia that many readers probably know.  John Adams and John Quincy Adams were the only father and son to both be President of the United States until George Bush and George W. Bush.  Secondly, JQA is the only ex-President to subsequently become a member of Congress (in this case the House of Representatives).
