A lot of people write about this book saying that it is one book that should always be a classic and important work. I guess I agree to that in one aspect. This is the story of a woman who was a victim of a Japanese death march that happened in Malaysia during WWII. It's basically her story about how she survived and how she meet this man named Joe whom she fell in love with and how because she aquired some money, she was able to change the lives of the Malay people who helped her during the war years and then the lives of the Aussie's in the outback. There's more to it but I didn't like this book very much. 

It does write about a true account of what the Japanese did during the war but because of the way that Nevil Shute wrote about the account and the "Great Jean" who made everyone's lives better--- it just didn't get to me. There is absolutely no heart in this story at all. I did not get to know the characters at all. It's like they are all cardboard cutouts of how people should act and should talk and should behave during that time. It really pissed me off. And I could not stand the main characters' blatant racism towards the Aboriginese. I guess it was accepted during that time that the "Abo" was an outcast but come on now. I couldn't stand it anymore. Aboriginese faced the same problems as blacks in South Africa and our own problems in the south during the Civil Rights Movement and the Native American struggle. I've never read a book with so much slang about the Aboriginese. Whatever. I mean, here is Jean, the hero, the ultra feminist. She decides to make an ice cream shop in the outback so everyone can enjoy ice cream. But what does she do? To her "Everyone" only means the white australians. She instead makes a seperate shop to the side for the "Abo's" who aren't welcome. She makes a segregated icecream shop. And this is the woman that wanted to be treated equally during her time of struggle? There were other incidents and it's probably because I'm thinking of this stuff as if it happened now and not during the time when that kind of racism is shamefully accepted. But that is not an excuse. If Jean was such a hero she should make a difference in race and not make the original Australians outcasts and calling them "Boogs". Reading this book I wonder why people like it so much. The history of it is true I guess but one I am not familiar with, but what good is a book when the characters are false. Not one minute did I believe the Jean or Joe character. They were just names on a page and did not come to life to me at all. Nothing they did seemed real. Like I said, just cardboard cutouts. Everyone it seems love this book but I did not find it one bit endearing. "A love story?" No way. 
