If you are a fan of Star Wars and like your stories to actually be more than just characters dropping names and bumping into the occasional Guest Appearance from a classic trilogy character, then I suggest you do not read this book.  While true, this is simply a video/PC game tie-in, it could have been MUCH better!  (Anyone ever read Republic Commando Hard Contact?  THAT is worth reading!)  A story in the Star Wars universe needs to add meaningful content and an interesting continuation of the Star Wars mystique.  The Ruins of Dantooine do neither.  It is a limp, lifeless, dull read that is nearly insulting to anyone who has the least bit of knowledge concerning the Star Wars universe.  The detail is sparse.  The main characters are almost cliches.  When they do encounter the classic trilogy characters, Luke, Leia and the rest of the cast seem stiff and out of place.  The authors' only character worthy of praise was the appearance of Darth Vader who seemed as menacing as usual and was nicely done.
If you like playing Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided you will most likely recognize many various character interactions.  For example, the authors have an unnamed Bothan surveying for some unknown mineral or some such item smack dab in the middle of an Imperial Compound on Dantooine.  There is usually no reason given for why any of these beings are engaged in these activities or why the reader should care.  It is simply a part of the game, so, naturally, it found its way into every corner of the book.  
The plot twists were predictable and seemed to be written by a sophomore English class.  (Only the sophomores would have been a little more creative.)
The authors' grasp on certain aspects of the Star Wars universe were weak at best.  A glaring example was when one of the main characters, after having met C-3PO, referred to all protocol droids as C-3PO's, as if she didn't realize they were simply protocol droids with unique serial numbers and designations.  You may think, well that's being too picky.  It may be a small detail, but isn't it the small details that make the storyline of Star Wars work?  Calling all protocol droids C-3PO's amounts to the same thing as calling all astromech droids R2-D2's.  There is, after all, only ONE R2-D2.
Then there is the main plot complication--The Rebels, upon abandoning their secret base on Dantooine, discover they have left behind a Holocron that details EVERY SINGLE LAST REBEL AGENT IN HIDING ALL OVER THE GALAXY.  And, of course, it comes down to a race against time to locate the lost Holocron before the Agents of the Empire can.  The question is never even asked in the book that if none of the other Rebels know one another outside of their particular cells then WHY IN ALL OF THE VAST UNIVERSE would you record all of the above stated Agents into one convienent place to be discovered later by your enemies?  (On top of that, the reason the evacuation of Dantooine happened in the first place was to prevent any Rebel groups from falling into the Empire's hands.  So, HOW do you lose soemthing so supposedly valuable as a Roll Call of Rebel Spies?)  If you read this book with any degree of thought you come to the conclusion that the authors were not very informed or they just didn't care.  (And since one of the co-authors was also a lead Producer with LucasArts for Star Wars Galaxies that comes as a great disappointment.)
In short, do not waste your time and money on this book.  If you hunger for true Star Wars adventure, elsewhere you should seek.
Several different series of books are GREAT and add tons of new info to any avid fan:  The Clone Wars books, The New Republic Era series, and The New Jedi Order (detailing the Yuuzhan Vong Invasion).  

Beware the Darkside 
          (and poorly written plots.)

           
