Give me 15 seconds and I'll prove you that the so called recommendations from the biggest names in the US Media are scam and they will never ever even look at such "book". 
1. No page numeration! Have you ever seen a book which doesn't have page numeration? I haven't, nor did I think I will until I opened this "book". 
2. No header! Have you seen a book without a header stating the book's name and the current chapter or the author's name? This doesn't have also this standard element. 
3. No Table of Contents! Have you seen a book without a Table of Contents, which immediately shows you exactly on which page to find curtain chapter or topic? Well, this doesn't have such. I was lost in it and the only way to find anything in this book is to list many pages until luckily I find it. If the author cannot provide us with the standard navigation for a book HOW she will help you with something as complicated as getting a cruise ship job? 
Furthermore, just think for a moment. Thousands of top quality books are being all the time rejected for review from New York Times and similar big names. So tell me, which respecting himself editor will even look at amateurish "book" like this one without any page numeration, header, Table of Contents and great value for the reader? Not even one!

In adition, the first 3.5 pages are full with paragraph long quotes from people such as "J.S", "J.B. Owen", "V. Durej", "Amy Oliver", etc anonymous people living in the middle of nowhere. BUT not even a word WHO, WHAT Exactly and in WHICH issue of New York Times, Conde Naste Traveler, Miami Herald, etc have said about this ridiculous "book". 

As a Sales and Marketing Manager with 11 years experince I guarantee you with my signature that this is an author's trick designed entirely to increase the sales of her book which otherwise has very little to offer regarding "how to get a cruise ship job". 

I can excuse the difficult to read huge font size, overstretched content, the few pages with practical advice on successful applying but NEVER an obvious manipulation against the readers' best interest! If you buy this book, you are not different from a brainless sheep and the author will keep on using such shameful marketing tricks instead of providing great value and service with her book! 

If you are looking for a "legitimate" book on cruise jobs which is independantly recommended as "5-star Exceptional" from an authority such as Foreword Magazine and everyone can immediately verify it at www.ForeWordreviews.com, buy Cruise Ship Job in 14 Days.
