Wow, do I have some qualms with this book.

First and foremost, boy was I surprised to find out the whole point of this endeavor was to say, basically, superheroes are crap but science fiction and Uncle Scrooge is awesome. Because that's what the last chapter says. I mean, its not like its a surprise or anything, considering the fact that the authors admit that they grew up reading those types of comics, and one assumes, not superheroes. I don't have the bios in front of me, but Lois Gresh, one of the co-authors, is a science fiction writer who did some Star Trek work or something. 

Second of all, for all the scrutiny they put superheroes up to, the science fiction they briefly examine isn't held to the same standards. Sometimes the stories they talk about get a free pass because they don't attmept to explain the science at all, but go ahead with the central conceit that it exists for the purposes of the story and now look what happens. So... if you don't attempt an explanation, its okay? Also, they talk about how Uncle Scrooge comics have "good" science in them, which makes them perfect examples of great comic books. I guess because its not a superhero comic, they don't need to go into a lengthy explanation of how it fails to explain TALKING DUCKS. I mean, that's central to it, isn't it? If Donald wore a cape, I don't think things would be the same all the sudden.

Third, in discussing the actual science behind superheroes, the authors are rather... dismissive? I think that's the word I'm looking for here. Everything is all 'this is impossible' and 'you shouldn't be enjoying this.' Thanks, but no thanks. Unlike the authors interviewed in the back, the authors of this book don't seem to understand that the point of the story isn't the science. Its, surprise, the story. Every fantastical story asks the reader to suspend some degree of disbelief, even Star Trek, even Uncle Scrooge. I'm not saying superhero comics are some great repositiory of scientific knowledge, far from it, but jeez.

I think I would have liked the book more if there were some indication BEFORE page 170 or so that the authors were exhibiting a very specific bias against superhero comics, rather than simply deconstructing them. [...
