Let me say at the outset that I am not a macroevolutionist.  However, Morris' simplistic caricature of biologists ("Darwin's theory of evolution is universally accepted among biologists", p3) is far from the only factor that makes this a disappointing book.  Morris is simplistic and repetitive, and in addition to the typo's already mentioned by other reviewers), there are several examples of outright contradictions and misinformation that leave me scratching my head.

On page 21, Morris states that "carbon-nitrogen dating...can rarely be used to determine the ages of rocks in geological formations."  In fact, it cannot be used to date rocks at all, only organic materials.

On page 25, Morris states that "The solar system is full of such [organic] chemicals, including amino acids-the components of proteins..."  I am not an organic chemist, but to my knowledge none of the amino acids found in the proteins of living things have been found anywhere else in the solar system.  If they have, it would certainly be in very limited places and quantities, not littered about the whole solar system, as Morris implies.  In addition, only 6 pages later, Morris states:  "Localized areas rich in organic chemicals are found in the fossil record.  These chemicals must have been produced by microbes of some kind."  Gee, I thought you just said that the solar system was full of them!

On pages 33-34, Morris states:  "It should not be imagined that they [the mammals] survived because they were somehow better adapted than the dinosaurs."  This statement directly contradicts the principle of natural selection, which is the guiding light for evolution and is even accepted in a general sense by creationists.

On page 44, Morris attempts to defend evolution by saying:  "Although many different kinds of genetic codes are theoretically possible, all organisms use the same one."  He uses this as an argument for macroevolution.  However, the logic behind it is fallacious, for the following reason:  genetic code can be (and is) viewed as a language.  As a creationist, it is perfectly reasonable to me that the Grand Author of Life would use the same language to code the information in all living things, just as most earthly authors write all of their works in a single language.  

On page 45, under the heading:  Evolution is a Fact", Morris states:  "The idea that life on Earth has been evolving for 3.5 billion years is not a theory.  It is the only possible interpretation of the numerous different kinds of evidence that scientists have been discovering for well over a century."  Thank you, Reverend Morris, Pastor of the Darwinian Orthodox Church.  However, on page 62, Morris states:  "If scientific ideas ever became dogmatic, then no new discoveries could be made."  If ever a contradiction existed, surely this is it.  

On pages 56-57, Morris gives the beginning of a reasonably plausible explanation for the evolution of an eye, until he says:  "Finally, full, complex eyes develop", thereby skipping the most problematic part:  the 20+ step biochemical process that occurs in complex eyes from the time that light strikes the retina until an impulse is sent to the brain.  (See Darwin's Black Box, by Michael Behe, if you want a fair discussion of the difficulties that the human eye poses for the theory of macroevolution).  

I could go on and on, but I will conclude by adding that I could forgive most of the evolutionary dogma (which is, after all, almost universal in books written by evolutionists) were the book not incredibly redundant, error-filled, and simplistic.  I got a little bit out of the part about evolutionary psychology, but that it about it.  


