As someone who is very interested in oil and it's effects on the global economy, I looked forward to reading this book with great interest. 

The Leebs go through a cursory analysis of the state of the current oil supply.  The question of when we will reach peak oil production is open to great debate with estimates varying widely depending on who is asked.  The Leebs assume that we will arrive at our peak oil consumption in this decade and predict $100/barrel oil by 2010.  

They may be right, they may be wrong.  I am not troubled by their prediction of $100 oil; however, their conclusion that $100+ oil will cause hyperinflation is stated as fact with no real evidence to substantiate their belief.  In fact, many economists will argue that rapidly increasing oil prices could be deflationary or only marginally inflationary.  The Leebs assume that the oil embargo of the 1970s and the resulting inflationary spiral that occurred in the U.S. will occurr again as oil prices march steadily higher.  This logic is flawed for a number of reasons, not the least of which is that a steady, measured rise in prices allows time for the global economy to adapt to higher oil prices in ways that a sudden oil shock does not.  

Furthermore, some economists argue that higher oil prices could be deflationary.  The Leebs ignore the fact that we are living in a globalized and highly competitive environment that is very different from the world of the late 70s.  If companies are having greater difficulty passing along higher energy costs to consumers; profit margins will contract, investment in R&D and new manufacturing capacity will slow, job groth will stagnate, and deflation will be as great, if not more of a threat, than inflation.  When manufactures are able to pass higher energy prices to consumers, the higher costs will tend to suppress demand thereby limiting economic and wage growth.  

Personally, I think they got it wrong.  The Leebs do not support their basic premise that higher oil prices will lead to inflation; they accept it as received wisdom.  For this reason, everything that flows from their assumption of hyperinflation is flawed. 
