If you are going to read this book just make sure you are critical and skeptical. Unfortunately, critical thinking and debate are valued less and less in America. Just be clear:
THIS IS NOT A SCIENCE BOOK
THIS IS NOT 'REVEALING THE TRUTH'
IT IS A POLEMIC
There, I said the obvious. But what I mainly worry about is people reading this type of thing and thinking they actually now know something about the issues. The truth is only the truth at the moment. And you aren't going to get it from a single book. 

In some cases I do not disagree with Bethell's content, he is a competent writer and certainly knows *exactly* what he is doing. What I dislike about this book is the way it preys on the intellectual weak. In that regard I give it 5 stars since it is specifically designed for that, so it succeeds. You find this book and you think, ahhh, finally the truth about all the liberal BS, or the liberal enviro nazi agenda, or the atheist science conspiracy...

Unfortunately, nothing is so simple. Each of the issues Bethell addresses is complicated and there are many books about each one. If you take any single issue he discusses, you will find thousands of written pages, lots of disagreement and plenty of debate. Personally, I *highly* recommend you do some google research on your own to see what I mean. 

For example, DDT was recently suggested for use indoors again to fight malaria as Bethell suggests. But here's the thing, many scientists have been saying that *for years*. How do I know, my other half is an entomologist. But banning it in the first place was not *stupid* or the result of the enviro wackos. It was done by intelligent people with honest concerns about human health. Yes, there are extremists, but not everyone who disagrees is an extremist. And, just because DDT turns out to be okay, that does not imply in any way all chemicals are okay. That is a logical fallacy. Some are some aren't. It is one case. Bethell uses it to demonstrate his *opinion* on environmental chemicals is correct. But that is not science. And THAT is where you, gentle reader, should be critical. To truly evaluate such a statement would take a lot more data. And you know what, we really don't have enough data yet. 

You see, everyone likes to be right, to have the real truth or best idea. But in reality, on most of these issues we still don't really know. And in some of the cases we COULD know, but Bethell does not advocate obtaining that knowledge. AIDS in africa? SCIENCE would go test people and put the question to rest. Then we would know. Until that is done, it is your OPINION. Global warming, well if you don't believe the earth is warming you're truly a fool, but the role of humans? THE JURY'S STILL OUT. Maybe it is the sun. BUT MAYBE NOT. Just because some guy *thinks* it might be the sun, doesn't mean it *IS* the sun. We may never know. Stem cells? Wait 20 years and then say whether it worked. But right now, YOU DON'T KNOW. DO YOU?!? As for evolution (in my opinion the weakest section) the talkorigins.org address EVERY point he makes.

In short, I think this book is a sad commentary on the state of intellectual affairs in America. At least books like "The Skeptical Environmentalist" are written by actual experts in something and do their best to take on the data fairly. So go ahead, read it. Learn very little. And then talk over anyone who disagrees with you. THAT my gentle reader, is the *real* truth
