I must admit, the setup that Aimee Bender constructs is fascinating: a girl in a claustrophobic town with a strangely beautiful glass hospital quits everything she adores until her routine is disrupted by the threat of her carefully sheltered world coming crashing down. However, the array of what start out as endearingly delicious quirks in Mona and the townspeople can't sustain themselves and become tiresome and forced by the end of the book. I simply could not find it within myself to care for the fates of any of the characters, whose actions and fates are all too trite and predictable.

 The most frustrating thing about this book is glimpsing the potential that it failed to live up to. The book seems to awkwardly straddle the line between the grippingly realistic and the delightfully dreamlike. It would have been effective either way, but in the middle ground it seemed to take, An Invisible Sign of My Own was dull and bizarre. 

One of the many plot weaknesses pertains to Mona's professed adour for math, which seems to supplemented by a knowledge nothing more complex than long division, despite a high school education. And the question of Mona's education leads to a entirely new debacle of how she is qualified to be any sort of teacher. This could very well be nitpicking, but Bender certainly doesn't seem to have done her research or have constructed a world convincingly magical enough for a reader to overlook illogical characterizations and plot twists. Mona herself comes off as irritating in her self-destructive self-pity rather than sympathetic. Her students are laughably (and not in a good way) precocious, wholly unrealistic without being interesting, and not at all endearing. Her love interest has little depth besides the plot device role he is assigned. 

I could not help thinking of the whole plot as a uncompelling and unskilled rehashing of Animal Dreams by Barbara Kingsolver, which I'd have gladly reread rather than waste my time on this one. This whole book reeks of trying too hard.
