I was very hesitant to write this review, particularly given the fact that "In His Steps" seems universally loved.  But I felt it was important to warn others about Sheldon's lack of depth as an author.

Let me first preface my review by saying I have been reading a lot of C.S. Lewis lately.  Going from Lewis to "In His Steps" is like transferring from MIT to kindergarten.  I say this with no disrespect intended.  And while some people may find this book helpful and inspiring, I simply found it prosaic and shallow.  In my estimation, Sheldon's characters are either completely stupid or he is a shallow thinker, in either case the book holds no appeal for me.

The crux of my problem is this: the characters are one-dimensional.  We have no insight into their internal or subconscious struggles.  The weight of their decision to follow Jesus' example is undermined by the lack of attention paid to the emotional and mental conflict that accompanies any attempt to do so.  There is more struggle going on within a Christian than Sheldon remotely implies.  (Bunyan emphasizes this perfectly in "Pilgrim's Progrss" which I highly recommend.)  The transformation of the characters when they commit to their decision is also contrived.  It was as if all sin vanished in Sheldon's idyllic world when once a Christian really committed himself to following Christ.  Given St. Paul's treatment of his own struggle with sin in Romans, I find Sheldon's romanticized ideal a little hard to swallow.  

The question is a good one for all Christians, what would Jesus do.  And from that standpoint, Sheldon really tries to flesh out the implications of such a question in our daily lives. Unfortunately however, in my amateur opinion, his efforts fall short of the objective and leave the reader with an uncomfortable sense that only a fraction of the story has been told. 

Here's my advice.  If you like C.S. Lewis, that type of depth and psychological insight, then don't bother with "In His Steps" because you will be disappointed.  If however, you find Lewis a little confusing and amibiguous, you might enjoy the book.  In the end I think it depends upon how familiar you are with the innerworkings of the human psyche or how familiar you wish to become.  Hope this helps
