While I take other reviewers' points that this duology attempts to expand the universe by giving us a wholly different perspective, it's more potentially good than actually so.  JEDI HEALER was one of the few times the prequel-era books have really disappointed me. 

I greatly disliked most of the characters, whose dialog often places them in the world of cliché. rather than the expanded universe of STAR WARS.  To my mind, introducing wholly original characters is precisely where the Expanded Universe in general begins to go awry.  So much time has to be spent on introducing the characters and setting up their own personal journeys that there's precious little time left to explain why they're important to the overarching themes of the STAR WARS universe.  To be sure, there are times where it can work, but here the connection to the STAR WARS universe takes rather too long to boil, and the ingredients in the pot just weren't interesting enough to make me wait for the meal.      

Not only do the characters fail to contribute to the saga in much of a meaningful way, but also that they were rather poorly drawn. Dialogue was a real weakness in this book--perhaps because the character motivations weren't, by and large, compelling. In particular the core love story, such as it was, played out more as a an episode of GENERAL HOSPITAL trying lamely to be ROMEO AND JULIET, rather than an even mediocre attempt to capture some of the fire of hospital relationships we see on, say, E.R.. It mattered not at all to me whether they got together, and by the time I got to the sappy Epilogue, I positively thought I was lost in an episode of FAMILY AFFAIR.

Worse than this, though, was the sloppy handling of Bariss' character. After all, she's right on the cover, and, one would imagine, she's the star of the piece. Sadly, she's at best a co-star--and this alone leads me to believe I was duped into forkin' out my $7.50. Things start out well enough in Chapter One, where we're treated to an imagining of the climactic events of THE APPROACHING STORM from her perspective. I enjoyed this greatly, as it's a useful way to help us follow the character from background character in the movies, to co-star in a Clone Wars episode and a directly-referenced-by-film novel. Unfortunately, after this point, her dialogue might as well have come from a completely different character. There's seemingly little effort--or perhaps, little successful effort--to give us the kind of "reserved mystic" we get (or, at least, I got) from her earlier appearances. Perhaps by using someone who's a sort of second- or third-tier previously-established character, the authors hoped to get the best of both worlds--a "headliner" to sell the book, and someone who was largely a blank slate, and could be defined as they wished, along with the other new characters they were making. And, maybe, if you haven't followed her character closely, you'll not notice anything wrong with the way they approach her. But there's just something far too casual, and at times almost flirtatious, about her that rings distinctly false. It is almost as if they wrote her as Padawan Any-Jedi. That, added to the fact that she takes too much of a back seat to the authors' own creations, leaves me really feeling cheated by her use in this book.

Having said that, there are times, largely not when the character speaks, when I feel like they've given her something interesting. Fairness demands that I draw attention to her character's personal journey, which does add something that feels much like the character I've come to enjoy in other outlets. The crisis she faces, her "Jedi Trial", as it were, is for its final 10 pages at least, riveting stuff that "fits", and gives her passage into Knighthood a satisfyingly ironic twist. I don't think it's enough to justify the book as a whole, but the way in which she attains Knighthood does give the reader a fair chunk of change to think about.

Another annoying aspect of the book is something that I'm struggling to understand about my own personal tastes in EU fiction. While in one breath I do appreciate the bridge the authors attempt to make with THE APPROACHING STORM (and for that matter, DARTH MAUL: SHADOW HUNTER), I flat out loathe the blatant attempt to work SHADOWS OF THE EMPIRE's Black Sun organization here. And I can't quite figure out why this bugs me, except to say that former is an attempt to shed light onto a character, and the other feels like a subtle attempt to force new readers to buy SHADOWS. Maybe the deal is that there's really no need for the Black Sun references, whereas the limited amount of information on Bariss more naturally compels the tie-in to THE APPROACHING STORM. Or maybe it's just the nature of the referenced work. THE APPROACHING STORM, whose events are canonized directly into Episode II, have a stronger relationship to Lucas' own vision, whereas SHADOWS can be more freely ignored. Thus, the tie-in--made by the same author--seems like a blatant effort to give his early work more "weight" in the overall EU structure. Whatever the case, I just didn't like it.

But there is an unambiguously cool bit of linking that goes on with one of the characters. In an effort to preserve the surprise for those who've not read the book, he or she will go nameless here. But by far the single best bit of character motivation in the book gives us something that is so rare in EU fiction: an examination of the way in which galactic events impact the life of a single citizen. We see the politics of the Chancellor-cum-Emperor actually turn an ordinary individual against the Republic. The final pages of the book at last give us something to hold onto: a single event which holds the keys of a logical progression from hatred of the Republic to hatred of the Empire. If you've ever wondered, as I have, how a single person could applaud the death of liberty in Episode III, and then show up to topple the Emperor's statue in Episode VI, consider carefully the motivations of "the last person standing" at the end of this novel, and you'll have a good answer.

Unfortunately, that's not enough to redeem the novel as a whole. The most I can recommend anyone do with this book is to check it out from the library and read the last 50 pages or so
