I won't go into depth about the problems with this book - several other reviewers have covered them already. But, here they are again: 1) There is very little history of the Knights Templar in this book. When they are mentioned, it is usually as a side note when Read is talking about various battles of the Crusades, until he gets to the history of their trial, which is rushed through. That being said, this is a decent overview of the major players in the crusades. 2) THe book lacks any cogent analysis of the subject matter. This is fine, if you like reading histories that mention a lot of who and what but not how or why, but for this reader, it made the reading dull at times. Compared to Jonathan Phillips history of the Fourth Crusade, this is kind of a snoozer because of this. 3) THe book is full of typos. THis is sad, because the book has gone through three additions, and no one has bothered to correct them. 4) Cultural and religious bias against Arabs and Jews is blatant, particularly in Part One, where Read describes the history of the Temple. While some bias will always be present, some of Read's pronouncments are outrageous - such as at one point where he mentions that the difference between Arabs and Christians is that Christians were commited to peace, while Arabs preferred to make war for the sake of riches and converts to Islam and then in the next chapter describes the sack of Jerusalem during the first Crusade by the Christian armies who looted the palaces, temples, mosques, and Churches of Jerusalem and then slaughtered all of the inhabitants - Muslims, Jews, and Christians alike. 

That being said, The Templars is a decent overview of the crusades for someone who may have never read any crusades history before. The author does a good job touchign on all of the main players in the crusades, and I especially enjoyed the Chapters on Saladin and Richard the Lionheart. Read does a good job of steering clear of grail lore and conspiracy theories surrounding the Temple, and even in the last chapter, takes the logic of these conspiracy theories to task. There is also quite of a bit of interesting history of the other military orders - the Hospitallers and the Teutonic Knights - nearly as much history of them as there is of the Templars. 

I would recommend this book (with a caveat regarding cultural bias) to anyone who was looking for an introduction to crusades history. Just don't expect a history of the Templars. 
