John Searle is unique among today's Anglo-American philosophers for his understandable and breezy writing style.  He tells you what he is going to tell you; tells you; and then tells you what he told you - almost as though he were briefing the Pentagon.   Construction of Social Reality is a fine example.

Searle is a philosophical realist and has always made a compelling case for our living in a single world, part of it outside of us and part within us, part objective and part subjective, part ontologic and part epistemic.  In this book, in fact, he reviews the various combinations quite neatly.  (Searle, in the early chapters, also includes animals other than humans.  Another positive!)  

In trying to convince us that institutions are as real as the brute facts of existence and mind he stumbles.  He is correct on one score; institutions are real.  But Searle builds  virtually his entire argument on the conception of collective intent, or collective intention (or intentionality).  On the one hand, he dismisses a version of the collective conscious, or geist as Hegel supposes.  He makes no argument, other than the concept does not make  common sense - especially for a realist.  On the other hand, he counters the "opposite" position, that each individual expresses collective intent as "I intend because I believe you intend."   That is not the case either, he asserts.  Instead he believes that "we intend" operates linguistically and innately - as an a priori mental function.   Simply because each sentient being is distinct from each other does not necessarily mean that, through language, we cannot express "we intend."   This is pretty much the argument upon which he builds the entire book.  

First, Searle does not consider other intentional patterns, such as one individual asserts "I intend" at time t, and another asserts "I [too] intend" at time t+n.  In fact, Searle, in his "we intend" (I hesitate to call it an argument, as his case is too shallow for that) conjecture, does not consider time at all, in particular atomicity - wherein events occur or are perceived "simultaneously" within some acceptable bound.   I personally prefer the "sequential, but appearing simultaneous," approach to the creation of institutional rules and facts, but this is not the place to make an argument.   There are many examples of institutions, great and small, that have been created by a single mind, and then many, more or less, instantly agreed.  Thus, the appearance of "we intend."  One can think of thousands of examples: Freud and psychoanalysis, George Halas and the National Football League, Marx and Communism, to name three.      

It is a great loss indeed that Searle undermines his own case, as he is correct in asserting that institutions are real.   In fact, his description of how names, functions, and rules are identified is clear, and his examples of money, baseball, football, and marriage are apt and entertaining.   

There are other profound difficulties.  In describing his theory of the "logical construction" of social reality, Searle uses what he refers to as "iteration," with a feeble presentation of symbolic logic.  In fact, what he is describing is the well-worn and well-understood theory of logical types, proposed by Russell and used in the social sciences, notably by Gregory Bateson, to explain the ever-rising tree of abstraction.   Either Searle is unaware of this work, or he must believe that it is inappropriate or simply wrong.  In any case, he never mentions it.   (He also fails to cite references to "the evening star" expression, which resonates as far back as Parmenides and as recently as Karl Pooper - and many other logicians.  He cannot be unaware of this tradition, yet he writes: "there is an expression" [the evening star] ... it has a sense and meaning" as though he were breaking new ground in linguistics and the philosophy of language.)        

Another troubling point is this:  Searle believes (again he has no sustainable argument) that processes precede the objects they [eventually] correlate with.   He devotes an entire
heading (in Chapter 2) to it: "Systematic Relations and the Primacy of the Act over the Object."   His answer to why there is this primacy is simply "that the `objects' are really designed to serve agentive functions and have little interest for us otherwise... they are just placeholders of activities [his italics]."    This suggestion discards thousands of years of mathematics and its role in philosophy.   If we are to presume that human thinking is most exquisitely captured by our mathematics (thus space vessels we launch into outer space contain mathematical symbols in the hopes that other sentient species might understand us), then we cannot avoid what has been proven: that objects are bound by the operations under which they are closed.   In fact, there are no placeholders.  Processes (to use Searle's word) and objects are intrinsic to one another.  Each inheres within the other.    
Despite the leap from static mathematical relations to real world activities and objects, I find this to be a far more convincing explanation.  This, not just because of its pedigree, but because it also raises the issue of bounded time - as I discussed above under collective intent: What is - in fact - atomic and what is not?   Here again Searle does not raise the temporal issue at all. For example, how long are his "placeholder objects" placeholders?  A millisecond?  A thousand years?  Just long enough? 

Searle is at his most creative in Chapter 6: "Background Abilities and the Explanation of Social Phenomena."   Here he will not truck with previous work, specifically by "Chomsky or Fodor and not even Freud" on consciousness and the unconscious.  Instead, he proposes "an alternate form of presentation."  Hoping to close in on neurophysiology, he suggests how intentionality is born, speculating upon "states," "functions," and so on, revisiting [uncredited but for his own] work on the will, motivation, learning, and the boundaries between the individual alert mind and the phylogenetic, historical mind.

It is at this point that I more clearly understood Searle's objective.  Put broadly, How can we infer the reality of social institutions and their behavior from the metaphors of mind?  The question, the objective, suddenly struck me as unimportant.   Do Searle's meta-states and pre-intentional background and dispositions and tendencies represent a closed mapping of mental abstraction to brain function and organization?   Is it an accurate mapping?  Can it be verified?   The answer to all is very probably No.  But even if the answer were Yes, the answer is meaningless.  The question is equivalent to looking for the lost wedding ring only under the street lamp of consciousness, which is of course Searle's field.  

Given that the ontology of our institutions and societies have evolved into highly artificial, complex hives of isolation, a fruitful line of questioning would seem to run more towards moral inquiry than brain chemistry.    Yes, we live in a world of natural and artificial phenomena.  All are real.  But, it seems to me, the decisive issue is why mankind, which has evolved to attain a far greater degree of free will than any other being on the planet, persists in creating such a plethora of artificiality, to the point that we are undermining the very world we live in?  Why do human beings - perhaps because we know we are living under a death sentence? - try to find solace, not just in groups, but in the fervent pursuit of machines, numbers, religions, money, and acquisitions?   
.
A final comment or two on the book.  Chapters 7 through 9 are an add-n, as Searle mentions in the Introduction.  As a kind of coda, he replays his view of realism and correspondence theory.   While this message could stand to be reread, it did not need to be rewritten; and it upsets the balance of the book.   Also, given the number of terms Searle introduces in the book, the index is meager and not particularly helpful.    


