I have the same thing to say about this book as I did about Dissecting the Holocaust. To many people this might be an impressive volume of research disproving the holocaust, but if you're one of those, you should know it pales in comparison with the really definitive work on the subject: The Annals of the International Tribunal at Nuremberg on War Crimes, which runs to over 20 large, thick volumes. Tens of thousands of pages long, covering the testimony of hundreds and even thousands of witnesses, there is no comparison between this work and the report of the War Tribunal. This entire book would be less than one small chapter in the Nuremburg report. If you want to see the real story, read that instead. You'll need to find a good college library to find one, but there is no better source. No surprise--the present book doesn't even mention that report--wonder why?

A couple of other not so little points. There is some confusion about cyanide vs. zyklon B gas, saying that there was no greenish stain on the walls of the gas chambers from the prussic acid used with the cyanide. If zyklon B gas was used, which is an organo-phosphate ester, there would be no such stain.

Also, in the Leuchter report, he crushed the samples of the brick before sending it to be analyzed. Anyone who knows chemical analysis procedures would know that would release any residual gas trapped in the porous brick. Hence, when the sample came up negative, it was an invalid test. If there was gas in the brick, it would have been gone by the time the test was done. Hence, the Leuchter report is invalid and is not proof that no such gas was used. This is why they needed to hire an analytical chemist who understands chemistry instead of an engineer who designs electric chairs. Ignorance is bliss.

Also, claims are made that the ovens and gas chambers couldn't have been used for their supposed purpose, because they weren't properly designed or engineered for that. Fortunately, good old German thoroughness and overengineering comes to our aid here. The German patent office has the original plans and designs for the gas chambers, stating exactly what they were going to be used for. The construction of the camps was a prestigious and lucrative building contract, and major construction companies bid on them, and there were some patents involved, too. All you have to do is to look them up.

Lesson to be learned from reading this book--if you're going to rewrite history--make sure you know what you're talking about first
