THE ALIENIST is hampered - in this reviewer's opinion, ruined entirely - by Caleb Carr's truly dreadful writing. His obvious desire to write a page-turner is frustrated almost at once by an absurdly convoluted narrative style. This, I suppose, was adopted with the idea of lending the text, a serial murder mystery set in 1890s New York, a properly tortuous Victorian tone. Unfortunately, that authenticity is otherwise little in evidence. The key players, besides speaking in wholly indistinguishable voices, are essentially modern figures thrown against period sets and dressed in period clothing. The narrator's discourse, though undoubtedly possessing a Victorian profusion of uninteresting and unnecessary detail, is disfigured everywhere with contractions and parentheses. The most anachronistic point, however, is certainly the discussion and description of the malefactor's crimes within the narrative; these passages are written with a gusto and a casualness that the average citizen of the period would have blushed at. They are purely, ludicrously modern. And Carr's difficulties, sadly, don't end there. He evidently could not decide how the narrator ought to refer to the title character, and so alternates the man's first and last name in an irritating fashion. The writing style as a whole is absurdly uneven, now careful and precise, now expansive and rambling, now simply vague and unclear. Finally and most irksome of all, Carr has a habit of concluding nearly every paragraph with statements such as "But we little thought how dangerous this revelation would  prove!" - ingeniously knocking out any suspense in a text already too awkward to contain much.

I will admit that I wanted to know the ending, and thought that the story might have been interesting in less inept hands, but as I am a confirmed detective-fiction junkie, I hardly think those are ameliorating circumstances. Altogether, I thought it a shoddy piece of work with little to recommend it beyond the grotesqueries of the crimes involved
