Critique of Neumann: The Case Against Israel 


On page 6 of the introduction, the author states " . . I do not discuss legal issues . . some times the law is wrong. For similar reasons I say nothing about UN resolutions . . like laws they may be wrong." Since the State of Israel was founded based on the UN Partition Resolution of 1947, there was no need to write the remaining 188 pages to "prove" that  Israel is not a legitimate state since, in the gratuitous opinion of the author, UN resolutions have no relevance nor applicability, because "resolutions might enjoin what is right or what is wrong." What the author claims he will "prove," he thus axiomatically states at the outset. I have a Ph.D. in philosophy, and I can assure you that does not constitute acceptable methodology. 
From this negation of the binding nature of UN resolutions it follows, in the opinion of the author, that the state of Israel is illegitimate and its establishment presented a mortal threat to the Arabs of the region - again, this is a gratuitous assertion without proof or evidence - and excuses all violence and atrocities as "self-defense" on the part of the Arabs of the region.
Today it is easy to convince one's readership that UN resolutions don't mean much; today's UN is largely discredited because of incompetent leadership and its many failures to reach its lofty goals. But in 1947 - two years ofter its founding - the UN was the noblest and best hope of humanity to resolve issues between peoples through reasoning rather than by making war. Thus, it might have been more profitable to probe whether the human race has yet reached the requisite level of civilisation to f  ulfill this hope and, if not, why not? 
More importantly, perhaps, to explore the possibilities for the Palestinian people, had they taken the first opportunity in history to establish a state of their own, and worked constructively at building a workable society. One might have asked - if one wanted to approach this problem from a moral point of view, as the author claims - by what authority their leaders advised the people against that constructive course of action and instead, instigating fear and war and hatred, wasted - so far - three generations of their people? 
In my opinion, THAT is an inexcusable crime.
In the same overbearing vein, the author derisively dismisses the excellent work of Joan Peters "Since Time Immemorial," which in examplary fashion gives original sources for every factional statement, in stark contrast to the present author who deals primarily in opinion, not facts, and whose 95% of already scant source material is contained in the work of others who are not exactly recognized authorities on the subject
