The Russian nuclear powered, missile carrying (SSBN) submarine K-219 was about 15 years old when it nearly triggered either WWIII or a 2nd Chernobyl.  In 1986, with Chernobyl still in minds of the public, and the Reagan/Gorbachev summit in Reykjavik imminent, the navies of both sides of the cold war sail SSBN's off each other's shore.  Floating platforms loaded with numerous missiles - some with multiple warheads - these subs are almost as dangerous to their crews as they are to the enemy.  In the case of K-219, the balance shifted firmly against the crew.  Poor design, construction and shipyard maintenance had prematurely aged the sub launched only a few years earlier than the first 688-class American subs.  Near Bermuda, K-219 was nearly sunk by a missile explosion caused by leaking seawater.  With one tube already deactivated because of seawater problems on a prior cruise, this was not a new problem.  In this case however, the explosion nearly sinks the then submerged boat, then floods it with toxic and corrosive gas.  Problems increase when the ships two reactors suffer a loss-of-coolant accident and nearly meltdown.  Echoing the experience of K-19, some brave crewmen sacrifice themselves to shut the reactors down.  Complications ensue when superiors in Moscow order the crew (once safely evacuated to a nearby freighter) to re-board the poisoned ship.  An American sub with a maverick commander adds to the danger when he runs his ship too near the stricken sub, apparently ordered to keep K-219 from being recovered.  Eventually, the ship will sink, and Captain Britanov will have to return home and answer to his superiors for the loss of the sub.

The loss of K-219 is a fascinating story, but unfortunately this book doesn't do it justice.  The cause of the book's numerous flaws is the author's determination to write it as if it were a novel, in which the facts, if not complete, are still single-minded.  That is, despite an extensive bibliography, there's only one version of the account.  Rather than document possible disputes over what happened, or why people act the way they did, "Hostile waters" offers a single, linear perspective, one with easily identifiable heroes and villains (the political officer is singled out for unpopularity even before he grabs the first lifeboat off K-219 - since he does nothing throughout the story he's an easy target).  This is not only a monumental cheat, but also robs the reader of critical facts - such as what really caused the ship to sink as it did; also the circumstances surrounding the apparently feckless captain of the American sub, and whether any blame should attach to Britanov for not knowing of the leaking missile tube or the painful domestic situation of the officer directly responsible for monitoring it.  "Hostile Waters" reads like a novel - a very unrealistic one
