Sojourn is the conclusion of the Dark Elf Trilogy which began with Homeland, continued in Exile and ends here. If you've not read the first two books then I suggest you do so now because the third book is a direct continuation of the other books and you'll be missing out quite a lot by starting here.

Exile was a notch below Homeland. It suffered from poor characters and a very predictable storyline and Sojourn isn't much different. None of the characters from the first two books remain(besides Drizzt of course) so the reader has to deal with a whole new cast. For the most part, these new characters are very one dimensional and similar to the characters in Exile in that there's no attachment to the characters. They're just stage props that Drizzt interacts with before moving on to yet another part of his journey. Characters leave or die out of the blue and they're not very fleshed out. The only decent character Montolio receives almost no development besides a page or two about his past. The author could have spent more time on the characters instead of writing overly long, 10 page battles that go nowhere. 

The action returns here in quantity as in the books before. Again, it feels that more of the book is spent in fights than anything else and the battles themselves are completely too long and are littered with many unnecessary descriptions. 

The writing too is the worst yet. There are many sentences that just don't read well at all and show a very amateur style. The book itself is very simplisticly written so it will appeal to the younger crowd but if you're looking for some deep, well written fantasy then look elsewhere. 

The poor writing, weak and boring characters, and overly long battles are the main downfalls of the book. The world still remains rather interesting with interesting creatures and a lush, although not fully developed world. The story is rather weak too as it just continues on the course exile took. The story is uninspired and nothing much really happens throughout; Drizzt just moves from one place to another with a few small stops and adventures. It's probably the worst part of the Dark Elf Trilogy although the ending does introduce some new characters that may bode well for the Icewind Dale trilogy. 
