I was so disappointed in this book that I put it aside for several years. Finally, this weekend, I picked it back up and read it cover to cover, just out of curiousity. It's kind of interesting, but it's not what it proclaims itself to be.

I originally found it by doing a search for "co-housing" and/or "ecovillages". Seeing the title, "And We ARE Doing It! Building an Ecovillage Future", and seeing that it even had a hammer and nails on the cover, I wrongly assumed that it would be about the actual building of an ecovillage. I was curious to see another insight into structures chosen and rejected, and what form of internal governance they chose and why. Well, this book has almost none of that. 

Rather, this slim booklet is JT Ross Jackson's rambling musings about how Gaiacorp and Gaia Trust came to be. Just as he gets to the topic of co-housing, he makes a radical departure and devotes all of chapter 4 to his mystical and paranormal experiences with a spiritual awakening during a brief trip to India. At that point, I really felt like he'd lost a lot of credility to a wider audience. He goes on to do a good job detailing some of the problems he and his wife encountered setting up some "Green" financial institutions. And he does a good job describing some of the problems with the WTO and MAI and out of control Trans-National Corporations. He paints a picture of a world about to crash ecconomically, socially, and environmentally through greed. It's a good message, but the folks that need to hear it aren't going to wade through the rest of the book to get to that part. Then, he ends the booklet with a few pages of badly written sci-fi. While I happen to like futuristic sci-fi, I found it sad that the only part of the book that touched on a vision of an ecovillage and the inherent internal policy issues, had to be one set in 2064 with some very unlikely touches.

I really can't recommend this book. If you already tend towards "Green" and you want a fun read, this might be worth checking out. But, if you want info on actually establishing an ecovillage this book is going to disappoint you. 

