A few years ago I saw Crocker on the C-Span program called `Booknotes.' He was discussing his book in a Q&A setting. The presentation on this show presented the book as if it was a new solidly researched work of Church History. Boy was that book ever misrepresented.

Crocker's work is not the `rock solid' history text that Sean Hannity claims it is in a blurb on the back cover of the book. In fact, if this is what Hannity calls `rock solid' history I would really hate to see pathetic history. This work is solid at certain points, but overall it is very poorly researched and documented.

There are so many problems with this work it is difficult to decide where to begin criticism of it. First, the research Crocker performed and documents in the book is terrible. When dealing with certain individuals and their thought, he hardly ever uses primary sources to support his claims. Rather, Crocker customarily uses secondary sources which often times do not themselves quote from primary sources. If I did this kind of research in my Graduate classes I would be laughed out of the classroom by my professors.

Second, Crocker describes certain people (mainly Protestants) in such a heinous fashion that he ends up being very uncharitable. He does the very thing that he complains about in this work. He treats certain thinkers in a very polemical fashion while at the same time demeans these same thinkers for being polemical in their approach, and then faults them for this action.

His sections on the Reformation are so erroneous I was embarrassed for him. For example, he declares things about Martin Luther and never sites a reference supporting the claims (see page 236-237). When Crocker makes a claim, for instance about Luther (e.g. on page 237) doing or claiming to have said a certain thing, Crocker quotes from a secondary source, not from Luther himself.  Like most other pathetic historical texts (written by non-historians) Crocker tries to psycho-analyze Luther. If Crocker would have simply taken the time to do better more efficient research he would have had a better grasp of Luther and what actually occurred at the Reformation. Instead, Crocker reduces himself to poor scholarship, name calling, abusive speech, and scant factual details with no references, and this is `rock solid history.' However, this occurs not just in his section on the reformation, but in other sections as well. This is a trend throughout the book. 

If Crocker thinks that by being 'funny' and acting like a silly ninth grade history student who is bored in class by making snide remarks about historical figures is good history, then why should I take this work seriously (like so many other reviewers claim I should)?

There are so many other works available from so many other reputable Church History scholars that are so much better than this bilge. Don't waste your precious time on this nonsense.
