First off, I do not agree with Evolution, in any way, shape, or form.  However, I will say that Darwin, unlike most so called "scientists," esp. Evolutionists freely admitted that there was more to learn in the comming years, and that his theories, or hypothesis, might have to be seriously reconsidered if new scientific evidence was discovered that did not corroborate his views.  

Most of what I see in scientific debates comes down to pure and simple prideful blustering, and hateful muddslinging!!!  It seems more favorable and a hec of alot easier to smear the opponant than to honestly, critically, and civily debate another person with whom you disagree.  Ego, Ego, Ego, and more Egomaniacal Monkeyshines!!!!!

I am new to this whole debate (Evolution vs. Creation / Intelligent Design), and I have alot to learn on both sides of the issue, but I can tell you this, I am honest, and civil enough to at least make an honest attempt at respecting the other side, as someone, who in my opinion, may be "wrong," but is also a human being deserving of proper respect, esp. if they have devoted years to honest scientific investigation.  All sides need to learn CIVILITY, and PROFESSIONAL RESPECT, WHICH IS SEVERELY LACKING IN THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY TODAY, MORE THAN EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1

This is a foundational work which started the whole Evolution landslide. Anyone who truly wishes to debate, refute, or otherwise understand the theory should read it carefully.  Just as one should read carefuly, and critically those foundational works on Creation Science (A real science) and Intelligent Design (A true Scientific Theory). 

Be REAL SCIENTISTS AND INVESTIGATE FOR YOURSELVES WHAT YOU BELIEVE, OR DON'T BELIEVE. 

I seriously doubt that Civility will ever come to the Scientific Community as a whole, as so few people are truly willing to lay down their Egos to search out truth, especially if the opposite of their own views is terrifying to them. 

Yes, there is a God, and he is not you, Dr. Ego Monkeyshines
