(This review contains some spoilers.)  This was the first Next Generation novel I had picked up in years - I used to be frustrated with the "reset button" characteristic of the novels (except for Peter David's) and found novels such as those in the Star Wars EU much more satisfying, since they allowed for real character development and multi-book plot advancement.  When I recently realized that Star Trek authors had been allowed to do the same thing, I picked up this book and looked forward to reading it.  I have liked Friedman's writing in the past, and one of the most maddening threads left hanging in the years after the show ended was the Picard/Crusher relationship.  So despite some of the negative reviews posted here, I was optimistic about this novel.

First, the good: Friedman does bring some resolution to the relationship thread.  It was nice to see some of the old Stargazer crew again.  Friedman also weaves a pretty good story with Romulan intrigue; and the plot, with several good premises, moves along briskly.  I like that Friedman recalls scenes from the show, introducing familiar elements that fans can appreciate.  I particularly like Picard's recollection of being rescued from the Borg.

However, the bad: I've read fanfic with more depth and better characterization than are found in this novel.  The whole book, we're supposed to believe Picard is driven to find Beverly because of his love for her, but the main reasons we know this are, one, we're told this repeatedly, and two, other characters observe it repeatedly.  But we're very rarely *shown* it.  There is little emotion from Picard when he is told Crusher is missing, and less real angst.  For her part, the musings are much more believable, but her reaction at the end is not as comprehensible because it isn't really explained.  What is she *thinking*?  We don't really know.  For a book that's supposed to be giving more insights than we could see onscreen, that's a major shortcoming.

The Romulan intrigue plot has a good skeleton, but it's not fleshed out to the extent that it could have been, in a way that really involves the reader.  Characters are brought in for cameos, and left at that (Worf and Geordi serve no real purpose here).  And the scenes from the show that Friedman incorporates are, for the most part, both poorly chosen and dropped in too abruptly.  Scenes from "Arsenal of Freedom" and "Sub Rosa"?  I couldn't help but cringe, as these aren't scenes that did much to establish affection between the main characters.  How about "Attached" or "High Ground"?  There was more material here to mine, I think.

In short, this book seemed promising, but was a major letdown.  In all honesty, the four preview pages for "Resistance" at the end of the book make it sound like that novel has much more potential than this one turned out to have.  If you do read it (and I will say it is worth at least one read-through), I would check it out from the library.  Though I'd like to report otherwise, it's not one I think many readers would want to go back to
