We just completed the first three books in this ten-book series and are even more frustrated. I can only wonder if any of the reviewers who recommended these books actually read them for content. While reviewers have described her writing as 'telling a story', it is actually rambling on and on over minutia that is unimportant while leaving the truly important parts of history barely written of. Homeschoolers pay for vast collections of educational books and, as a group, we have high standards for what is worth paying $200 for. This series isn't even worth $20. 

Time is valuable and the nine months we have spent on the first three volumes was 90% wasted. Hakim jumps from one part of a story to a different part of another story and then returns as though this is part of a natural thought process--it's not. She includes minute details about the way someone's maid or valet dressed and will ramble on for five pages regarding their footwear. While she may be interested in that twaddle, we are not. Most of the chapters are organized around what pictures she found fascinating, rather than actual history. Chapter after chapter, we read about people I would never waste my time on and the comings and goings of everything in their household, from what they ate, to how each person looked in appearance, to (again) their footwear. Aside from an obvious foot fetish, Hakim has nothing substantial to offer and rambles on, book after book, into nothingness. We were saddened to find many famous events given only one sentence (e.g. Shay's Rebellion), while many pages were devoted to insignificance (e.g. over 40 pages per book devoted to large pictures of insignifcant drawings).

The last detail that made this series so disappointing was the obvious slant of Hakim's writing--slamming one framer, while making another out to be a saint. Like those who start a sentence with the words "I'm not prejudice, but...", Hakim starts her books with the preface that she is depicting what happened with no prejudice toward any belief system--not. As homeschoolers, we have learned to read with a critical eye those words that are used to incite an emotion--wasted, hated, dictated, etc.--Hakim uses them much too frequently. Hate words should be removed from history books, they just don't belong.

My children have asked me to add that what they dislike most about this book is that Hakim's definitions are so incredibly inaccurate. Just today, she defined the word paradox so poorly that we had to grab the dictionary to read the correct definition. Oxford should hire a better fact-checker.
