the typical self proclaimed china hand writing books catered to the western audience with typical stories everyone hears if you are in the investing biz.  no added value except to "reveal" to the world what had happened to him or her.  do these writers trully understand china?; same question to be posed to the thousands of current and potential investors into china.  and can they offer insights that are practical, realistic and offers a true fact of what is happening daily on the ground?  i seriously doubt any writer can offer this in respect to china because china is a story of limitless permutations.  there is only one commonality in china, which is its damn hard to get it right, because there is no right or wrong in this environment.  so how does anyone who wants to know how to operate in this environment learn?  i beg to differ, but its not gonna be thru a book written by the gangs of so called "china hands" out there.  these books are like the ones that came out supporting the great hype about the "new ecnomony" when the heat was scorching white.  opportunistic but offers little value.  i'll only buy the soft cover versions of these type of books or reading it as borrowed material. there is absolutely nothing valuable in this type of undertaking other than entertaining one on a slow afternoon.
the author doesn't trully understand the reasons why things and events like those that transpired while he was ther in the early 90s, he doesn't understand the deep down psychic of the chinese person that he is dealing with.  chinese as a society is very complicated and extremely difficult to "read", and with the thousands of years of upheavals and sufferings of the masses, a twisted sense of whats right or wrong flows thru to today's society.  understand the meaning of "middle kingdom" and the world will have a starting point on why things are done the way they are today.  understand why "putonghua" has to be implemented  to bring all the different sects of chinese together is also another start.  i have yet to read any of this and a hundred other basic seeds of discontent that creates the china it is of today and why it behaves the way it does.  i doubt that anyone will be able to put it in on paper with  a certain thoroughness as it will create lots of uneasiness and tensions that has been around for 5000 years.  chinese will not accept a book on this and the western reader will have difficulty fathoming the gist and hidden weight behind each nuance. 
