Hopefully one day there will be a definitive book about Roxy Music, but this one isn't it. Author Paul Stump overburdens himself (and the reader) by dealing &quot;extensively with the environment in which Roxy Music  thrived&quot;, noting in the preface that he makes &quot;no apologies for  diversions into sex, dandyism (and) pornography&quot;. Before long the book  begins to unravel into endless digressions which appear to have little or  nothing to do with Roxy.    At the same time, Stump seems incapable of  making any point succinctly:    &quot;In the 1950's, however, when  conventional art instruction (both in method and course content) began to  wilt under the influence of continental and American modernism, the  pedagogic tradition became inculcated with values that were diametrically  opposed to bourgeois existence and to bourgeois means of conceptualizing  the world.&quot;    Sloppy editing also hurts when seemingly different  drafts of the same paragraph appear within a few pages of each other, or  when the author refers to the song &quot;Over You&quot; as a  &quot;surreally misplaced... Everly Brothers' pastiche&quot; three separate  times in as many pages. One wonders how trustworthy Stump can be when he  comments on how good Phil Manzanera's guitar intro is on &quot;To Turn You  On&quot; when the only guitarist listed as playing on the track is Neil  Hubbard!     Ultimately, it is too easy to see Stump's prejudices. For him,  Roxy Music ceases to be creative in the proper way after Brian Eno leaves  (two albums in), so Stump occupies our time with trite speculation on Bryan  Ferry's sex life in the mid-70's. To the author's credit, he does a fine  job on a long chapter detailing Eno's solo work and on a chapter devoted to  Andy Mackay and Manzanera outside projects. But one has to ask: What kind  of Roxy Music biography would devote 55 pages to the solo work of Eno,  Mackay and Manzanera and only two pages to &quot;Avalon&quot;, the band's  best-selling final album? I guess some pleasures are meant to remain  unknown
