    I want to be fair, because there is material of value in this book.  The problem is that it takes so much energy to seperate it from all the anti-psychiatry dogma, endless references to philosophers, abusively harsh judgements of people who are living in great pain, that, in the end, I don't think it is really worth the effort to read.  An editor should have stripped away all the caustic negativity, rants and raves, and slimmed the volume down to about 100 pages or less.
    With all due respect to the author, because I have bipolar disorder myself, I question whether she really has her illness under control.  Waking up each morning in a state of utter despair does not sound to me like someone has found satisfactory treatment.  
     It also bothers me that it is implied that mentally ill people simply don't use their will enough to better themselves.  While this may often be true, it is also often true that these people are exerting truly heroic willpower each day simply to stay alive.  To call them "wimps" really does not help anyone.
     While her descriptions of severe depression are more or less convincing, her descriptions of mania are a walk in the park compared to what I have experienced and what many people I know have experienced.  Someone who is in a state of acute psychosis will not be helped much by repeating a prase such as "green frog."  I also question the assertion that the mind can only think one thought at a time.  If you beleive this, then you do not understand psychosis.
    Thomas Szazs, and others that call mental illness an unreality...they are taking an armchair approach to psychiatry.  As when watching a football game, it is very easy to criticise from afar when you are not the one getting your bones broken by 300 lb defensive players.  Anyone who has first hand experience with severe mental illness knows that it is all too real.  The cause is irrelevant.  The fact is people suffer, people die, often unecessarily.  Being insensitive to their suffering only makes the problem worse.  Judging a person who takes medication, when you don't understant their life...is just ignorance.
     Thomas Szazs calls mental illness a "metaphorical illness"...which makes him a metaphorical psychiatrist, since he did not actually treat any patients.  He was primarily a "philosopher," who really wasn't interested in working directly with the mentally ill patients.
    If my review seems to be rambling, ranting and raving, then don't read this book...it is even worse.  I think the author is coming out with a second book, and it will be interesting to see if she makes any changes.
    
