I would have to disagree with the pronouncements the book has to make.  I feel very strongly that the Bible does say much about homosexuality, in the concept of sin.  Thus I myself take a literalistic point of view of the Bible.  I believe the Bible is exactly as it says it is, the word of God, the message of God, to a fallen race--us.  The author, on the other hand,  takes a postmodern, very liberal view toward what the Bible speaks of and what the Bible preaches.  By maintaining a postmodern ideology toward the Bible, the author...as many other post modernists...have stripped away the Bible for what it truly means as God's message to the world.  In this case, the author has stripped away the truth toward homosexuality as viewed of by the Bible.  What do I mean?  Let me explain.  

The Bible speaks of sin--those deeds that first manifest upon the soul, then formulates in the mind/body, and then done physically.  Within our souls is a cancer, a cancer that is born from our sinfulness in a sinful world.  It is because of this seed of sin that Christ came into the world through virgin mother as the prophets foretold, died on the cross as the prophets foretold, and rose again on the third day as the prophets foretold.  Sin is then "thought of" in the mind and body.  It is the whisper to do evil in our brains, the easier choice in comparison to the right choice, the lust, the desire, to want that burns in our minds and our hearts.  Then, when it is done, it is done through physical manifestation.  In this case, homosexual acts and actions.

Thus homosexuality is an act born of spiritual sinfulness and acted upon out of physical sinfulness.  However, and this is an important realization that is to be known from the Bible, homosexuality is just one of many sins that tempt and bring us to fall.  This, again, is a difference of opinion between myself and the author of this book.  I do not think that homosexuality is any worse than say gambling, or any better than say abortion.  All sins bring forth a wall between us and God, all sins must be forgiven by the blood of Christ so that we will be cleansed.  For you see, all sins are the same before the eyes of God, because they mare our souls and flesh, however, each sins has their own consequence.  And this is an important understanding toward the homosexual issue.  Homosexuality is just one of many sins and all sins are the same before the eyes of a Holy God, but its consequences are different than say adultery or stealing.  But know well that you and I are sinners too.  Our sinfulness might be different than the homosexuals, but we are still sinners that need the grace of God.  Our sinfulness, too, will have different consequences than the homosexuals, but still we are called to love the sinner (just as God loves us) but hate the sin.

This means that homosexuals should not be treated badly.  This means that homosexuals should be given our friendship.  This means that homosexuals can be loved through the love of friendship and through the love that neighbors are to have as the Bible speaks of.  What do I mean?  Well we are all sinners, and we all need Christ's grace.  If you are a homosexual, why should I judge you because of that homosexuality (as long as deeds such as pedophilea aren't done or other illegal actions).  I have known many a gay in my life and time, but I do not judge them, just as I do not judge those women I know who have had abortions.  Yes I strongly take a Biblical POV, and they know this, but I do not and will not treat any less because that would be a wicked deed.  You can agree to disagree about an action done, in this case homosexuality, without having malice or hatred toward the one who is washed in that sin.  You can give friendship to the homosexual while still maintaining a Biblical belief...the only thing that is called to you is that if he or she wishes to know your belief, you act with fearlessness in speaking the Gospel, the truth. 
