
	The author of A Northern Light is Jennifer Donnelly.  She resides in Brooklyn, N.Y, with her husband and daughter as well as two greyhounds.  Other works by  the author  include Humble Pie and The Tea Rose.  A Northern Light was the winner of The Carnegie Medal, The Los Angeles Times Prize and A Michael L. Printz Award Honor Book.  
	The intended purpose of this book was to address many issues that young people face growing up.  The main character, Mattie Gokey, has to go through many hardships and make many adult decisions in this novel.  Mattie lives with her Pa and younger sisters.  Other characters that play a large role in this book are Weaver, Royal, Minnie, Miss Wilcox and Grace Brown.  A murder takes place in this book that was based upon real events.  Even though the murder was an actual event, the characters are made up to help it come clearer to readers.  Grace Brown's body is found in the lake after she takes a boat ride.   She gives Mattie a bundle of letters to burn but when she is found dead, instead of burning them, Mattie begins to read them and discovers many important aspects of the murder.  Donnelly skips back and forth from past to present and takes us through part of Mattie's life.  She also adds alot of advanced vocabulary for Mattie's words of the day.  She also uses language of the time period to make the story  come to life better.  
	Although this novel received many awards of excellence and I'm sure alot of people would greatly enjoy  reading it, I was not one of them.  At the beginning, I thought it was going to be a very exciting murder mystery, but was disappointed to discover that the murder played only a small part in the whole novel.  I did find it very interesting though that it was actually based on a real murder.  I would probably not recommend this book for someone who is looking for a murder mystery because the murder only plays a small part in the novel.  Also, I think the author could have labeled the chapters a little more clearly because it got a little confusing with all the switching back and forth between past and present.  
	I would say the intended audience would be young adults and most likely just females.  It contained some adult content, such as some profanity, as well as some sexual content.  Boys would probably not enjoy this novel because it is, in some aspects, a love story.  There's "sparking" and affairs and dirty older men at the hotel.  A younger person would not understand or want to read something that involves such material.  
	In conclusion, A Northern Light was not one of my  favorite books that I've ever read.  The audience range is very  small and also based upon gender.  It is a well written novel, it just doesn't spark alot of interest in many people.  It went into to much detail at some parts and not enough for other parts.  I think she should have made the murder a more important part of the novel because it would have made it much more exciting. 
