I have read every novel in the Sharon McCone series and have them all in my collection.  When I found this book at Barnes and Noble and read the description I was giddy with anticipation.  I wanted to read about the relationship between Sharon and Hy as man and wife.  I was very disappointed.

The plot line is basic and good.  A daughter wants to find her mother who disappeared over twenty years ago.  Closure is all she wants although her sister would just as soon let it be.  Thus begins the chase all around the northern California coast, ending in Klamath Falls, Oregon.  Whew!  So little time was spent in San Francisco that the office people who I have come to know and adore, were virtually non-existent.  Most of the conversation is stilted and the majority is done over the telephone.  The cell phone being turned off is a recurring distraction.  Is this supposed to have an allegorical meaning?  I don't know.

Sharon's adopted mother and biological mother rate a paragraph or two in the novel.  Hy appears once or twice and I highly doubt that a newly married man would allow his wife to be so distant from him.  Irregardless of their "evolved" relationship, I think it was cold on Sharon's part to proceed on her own when she has such available talent at the home office, just waiting for such an assignment.  

My main complaint about this novel is there are two many one-dimensional characters.  I got so confused as to who was who and how they were relevant to the story.  I never got to "know" them and motivations were sometimes so closeted I was in the dark.  There was a very good potential plot in the Mark Aldin/Ricky relationship and yet it was briefly dealt with in sentences.  His death was related by phone call.  (again, the phone)  

Hence the title of my review, the point vanished.  I was bored reading the book and just was not interested nor did I particularly care what happened to Laurel Greenwood.  I don't think she was intelligent enough to do what she did and I do not think she was an artist.  I will read the next book in the series and if it presents the same types of problems for me, I will probably give up reading them as I gave up on VI Warshawski years ago.  When you don't like the main character, no point in reading the novel
