2 stars 	After reading Barras' explanation and description and interpretation of what life has been like for her concerning the concept, structure and realization of a father figure in her life and in the life of her daughter I conclude that 1/3 of the book is reporting on painful emotional feelings and psychological confusion; 1/3 reporting on research that is usual and available and interpreted in a prevailing view that homes without &quot;fathers&quot; produce dysfunctional children and adults, although, more than half the homes in America do not have a resident-male performing the role of father and 1/3 of the book is pure puff, pure market exploitation.  Yet, I also concluded that I will buy the book for my daughters but I will glue my review and interpretation of the book, in detail, to the inside cover. 	I will use this book and &quot;Becoming Dad&quot; by Leonard Pitts, Jr. as text for classes in cultural anthropology because these discussions of &quot;fatherlessness&quot; are so culturally based.  But even more, they indicate clearly the cultural differences between what a &quot;father&quot; was suppose to be in the 40s and 50s in comparison to what a father is suppose to be today. 	What is a father?  That depends.  That depends upon the region of the world, the environment and the era.  That clearly makes it a psychological cultural-construct. 	The data on &quot;Daddy&quot; in the home (i.e. an active role) is clear that it depends on the cultural and economic development of the males in a population. 	So the socio-economic factors point to political punts and blocks.  In other words, the American government has supported the development of white manhood, and the subsequent development of white fatherhood and with the employment of women even that effort is slipping. 	This book and others like it can be a lethal weapon, a hurtful instrument, for women who are vulnerably disconnected in a dreamy, fanciful reality. 	All 35-year olds who read the book should read the very last line of the book, first, realize Barras is now 50, then read the book with that in mind.  That is, realize that this psychological-cultural painful phenomenon is called, &quot;growing up.&quot; . . . . I HAVE A BONE TO PICK WITH BARRAS: 	"The only thing I can hear clearly is the fatherless song.  I sing it sorrowfully, achingly, the way Billie Holiday sang `Strange Fruit.'" (pg. 34) 	Thousands of black people (&amp; about 200 white sympathizers) were tortured, beaten, mutilated and burned, then hung from trees all over the South because (some) white people hated and was allowed to hate and Barras compares that with her childhood fantasy of a father and her mother's abrupt lack of sensitivity, which we all will grow out of eventually because we will realize the fancifulness of it all but torture and murder and rape are real.  Somehow, I don't think these are the same thing or even similar in the essence of living human, do you
