I thought my first year of college was tough. But "Nathan" has it worse, and she did this while on a sabbatical! She took on a challenging task, one that many professors have probably considered as being interesting but impossible to pull off. This ground-level view of college life has some merit and charm, with limits. This book reads for me as a reference work for other anthropologists, not for students or their parents. See especially the "liminal" section, pp. 146-148, and the eleven-page (158-168) postscript on ethnography; the text is otherwise 157 pages. And I am less concerned about the ethics of this covert role than I am about the authenticity and usefulness of the (self-reported) data and the reliability of her field observations. There were several lessons I learned but only by reading between the lines.

1.Upon starting her quest, "Nathan" immediately notices the mountains of "stuff" new students bring to their dorms. "Nathan" brings a microwave and a wok to her dorm room, and she is at the low end of the "stuff" scale. Rather than take a head count of students, like the author did, she could take an inventory of the `stuff' students bring with them to college. This would speak volumes about culture, behaviors, norms, and rituals. Too much stuff translates into too little time to be college students. The irony is that the time students spend employed rather than studying cannot begin to pay for the cars and unnecessary paraphernalia they possess.

2."Nathan" seems bewildered at the university's absence of a sense of community and intellectual diversity. Demographic diversity and a wide range of previous educational experiences in the recruited student body can drive out the sense of community universities claim to seek. Universities "recruit for diversity," pay lip service to its manifestations and limits, and then wonder why students fail to see themselves or to develop as a community. And the open forum for the free exchange of ideas failed some time ago (see "assaults," below) when the educational system stopped having an idea of how to reach or motivate students. Universities punish truly free expression, disperse dated rhetoric, and wonder why students have nothing they care to say in class. Faculty need to be more creative, engaging, and accountable. If they want student participation, faculty need to develop it, measure it and grade it. If faculty want students to be interested in required material, faculty need to make sure students know why it is required. And if a faculty member wonders why students don't make use of office hours, that faculty member needs to ask if "office hours" are the best way to reach students.

3.Communication technology separates rather than draws us together. And its not just iPods (although this book is pre-iPod), cell phones, laptops and PDAs. When students have televisions in their rooms, is it any wonder they don't need to go to a common room to watch the Super Bowl? Television does not bring us together; it isolates us. And it lulls the brain into a passive state. But she glosses over the fact that every student needs to have one. Why?

4.Foreign students mistakenly believe that only American students are nave about foreign culture. When students from fifteen different foreign countries complain that Americans fail to appreciate the foreign student's own country, that foreign student is more ignorant and arrogant than are the Americans they decry. Foreign students tend to "know" their own country and their stereotypes about America; American students are not much different.

5."Nathan" asked students for their "perfect" course. The author's description of the students' "perfect" course (which turned out to be a course on sex -- surprise!) is perfect only in the sense that the students enjoyed it. For a student to tell her teacher she "enjoyed" a course says very little about the teacher or the content, only that it was fun, or in the author's words, "perfect". Too bad "Nathan" didn't ask for the courses where students learned the most, or that administrators reserve the curriculum for courses that do more than titillate.

6."Nathan" toys with the idea of locating old tests for a course as cheating (p. 124), without ever really deciding if it is or is not "cheating". She says that unlike the faculty view, students view cheating with many "subtleties and complexities". I think she's wrong on both points. Studying old tests is not cheating and faculty see even more subtleties and complexities in cheating than do students. She cites an article that describes cheating as like "stealing signs in baseball," and that just misses the point of cheating completely, or at least it offers a juicy if unjustified rationalization.

You'd probably get a better understanding of campus values and academic norms reading ratemyprofessors.com posts from "Nathan's" school, Northern Arizona. But then things get worse. "Nathan" decries "student assaults...on academics critical of U.S. foreign policy," while ignoring academic assaults on students' beliefs and values. She spends five pages on a relatively poor economic analysis of higher education: she adjusts tuition costs for inflation but neglects rapid increases in financial aid; she claims students need to work to go to school, ignoring the cost of the "stuff" and lifestyle of carousing noted above; she complains about states and the federal government paying a smaller portion of the university budget while ignoring the fact that much of that budget has little or nothing to do with education; and she decries the decline in majors such as philosophy, history and English literature while ignoring the overproduction of PhDs in these areas and the decline as more relative than absolute. You can't double the US population in fifty years and increase the college-going rate from 16% to 61.7% and not have to stretch some budgets
