Reverend Frederick Buechner (b1926) has been blessed with a successful career.  In 1947, he earned a Bachelar of Arts from Princeton; in 1950, he wrote his first successful book &quot;A long day's dying&quot;; in 1956, he and Ms Judith Frederick Merke, a long time friend of the family, were wed; in 1958, he earned a Bachelar of Divinty from Union Theological Seminary where he was educated by such theological luminaries as Mrrs Paul Tillich and Rheinhold Niebuhr.  Finally, in 1969, after authoring dozens of books, he culled from his Lyman Beecher Lectures at Yale this book, &quot;Telling the Truth&quot;.  &quot;Telling the Truth&quot; is not so much a book about the Gospel as it is a book on how to preach the Gospel.  Which is what preachers came to the Lectures at Yale hoping to learn.  Rev Buechner has an engagingly humourous style, and this makes the book an enjoyable read.  He calls us to preach the Gospel by telling the truth.  Which he describes as &quot;telling the truth; telling the truth in love; telling it with concern for the truth; and telling it with concern for the listener.&quot;  The Gospel, Rev Buechner posits, is composed of three types of truths, tragic, comic and fairy tale.  By tragic, he means, &quot;the world where GOD is absent is dark and empty; by comic, &quot;it is in the depths of GOD's absence that GOD makes himself present&quot; and by fairy tale, he asserts that the &quot;tale that is too good not to be true because to dismiss it as untrue is to dismiss along with it that catch of the breath, that beat and lifting of the heart near to or even accompanied by tears, which I believe is the deepest intuition of truth that we have.&quot;  Whether this is TRUTH or not, I don't know, even so, the book is entertaining.  The problem I have is that Rev. Buechner appears to contradict himself from one lecture to another, and even within the same lecture.  For example, he writes derisively that &quot;as Christians in general we are particularly given to sentimentalizing our faith.&quot;  Yet in his characterizations of Pontius Pilate as a 3-pack a day smoker, in a loveless marriage who is apathetic as a bureaucrat, isn't Rev. Buechner, himself, looking &quot;only at the emotion in it and at the emotion it stirs in us rather than at the reality of it.&quot;  Of the Prodigal Son, he writes, &quot;he is a caricature of all that is joyless and petty and self-serving about all of us.  The joke of it is that of course his father loves him even so, and has always loved him and will always love him, only the elder brother never noticed it because it was never love he was bucking for but only his due.&quot;  Does this mean that the lecture about the Gospel as Tragedy which focuses on drama which speaks of the absence of GOD, is &quot;joyless and petty and self-serving&quot;?  In summary, I think this is an entertaining book which doesn't strike a spiritual resonance with me.  Others may find it spiritually enhancing, and for them I am genuinely glad that Rev. Buechner wrote this book
