Freedom of speech.  Ya gotta love it.  It gives any two bit hack the right to get up on a podium and spout his pop psychology to draw in however many supporters he can muster, a God unto himself, without peer review.  And in this case, the pride of this power has led the author into a descent into true evil.

It may help some to hear the perspective of a lifelong atheist.  I was never indoctrinated into a religion.  This does not mean I was not exposed to other misguided notions, but I suspect this is an important area to be spared because nowhere else is one expected to and practically required to accept and wholeheartedly swallow broadly unsubstantiated material.  I found Peck's arguments to be well thought-out up to a point, which as other reviewers have noted is about halfway through the book.  He argues quite convincingly that people who desire mental health must be dedicated to the truth, and that means not accepting religious dogma.  Further, I agree completely with him that people should not settle for hand-me-down religions but should pursue a personal path to spiritual growth.  Recognizing that the subconscious is the largely hidden reserve of wisdom and the seat of what religions take for God, I expected him to proceed down the objective course he had set out.  I'm sure you will not be surprised that I was very dismayed to hear that did not free him from unsubstantiated dogma after all.  

Before going further into the book, let me point out that I am a tolerant but "hard core" atheist.  An atheist forms his ideas from his observations, not from his imagination.  Since gods are suppositions without evidence, they have no place in rational thinking about the world as we know it.  Note that an atheist doesn't "believe" that there is no god; an atheist doesn't exactly "believe" anything.  "Certain" knowledge includes only that which is defined to be true or follows from such definitions, e.g. mathematics.  Everthing else is based on scientfic hypotheses, which are neither true nor false but apply with a certain degree of accuracy to the known world.  Note that the term agnostic, meant to mean an atheist who holds that it can't be be known whether gods exist or not, is rather pointless, as nothing about the real world can be known to be true or false - everything, as I mentioned, is merely hypothetical.  Now we get to the hard core part.  Many atheists are unconcerned with what beliefs religious people occupy themselves with.  I, on the other hand, agree with Peck that religion is a psychopathology and should be treated.  (It is rather blatantly ironic and pitiful on the face of it that after proving this rather eloquently Peck reveals that he himself has been swept up by religious delusions).  The belief in dogmatic phenomena like gods and further, the belief that said belief must be held without question as a point of faith, is potentially quite a dangerous state of mind that can lead to harmful life decisions.  While we can't prove the truth of scientific hypotheses, we can disprove them.  It is an historical fact both of the literature and from every experience of our daily lives that there is no known example of a supernatural phenomena, i.e. one that has disproven natural laws.  It is only at the point where a reason arises to doubt our understanding of the natural world that the reason arises to suppose supernatural causes.  I am a tolerant atheist in that, while I believe religion should be treated, I recognize that no effective treatment exists and so I reluctantly tolerate it even among my closest associates.  This is because I recognize that religion is an attempt, albeit usually based on flighty principles, to get in touch with our true, deeper selves, our "spiritual" side, the vast unconscious swath of human existence that science has not yet touched on but still remains the greater part of our real existence, since our brains are the only reality we really know; our knowledge of the world around us is second hand through our brains.

Without going into great detail, let me just say that Peck descends into a morass of dogmatic views about God, propped up by such bizarre items as unlikely coincidences and how evolution goes against entropy.  Serendipity is a chance happening and not proof of God's existence.  That said, if belief in an unseen helper is the only way you can maintain a positive attitude toward life, then it is a psychopathology that may prove more helpful than harmful.  Still, you would better off seeing the world for what it is and still keeping the positive attitude.  It is true, though, that science and objectivity themselves have not offered up any reason for people to maintain a positive attitude; in fact on the surface it does just the opposite.  For atheists to compete with religions for adherents we must come up with a better way of explaining to people why one can be more exuberant getting closer to the truth than one can to imaginary friends.

Peck's explanation of entropy provides a good example of what kind of bad life decisions a belief in unsubstantiated dogma can lead to.  Apparently a preexisting belief in God (which I hesitate to point out is a term which none of the religions can or could define, which leaves it meaningless) led Peck to misunderstand entropy as something that must increase locally as well as globally, leading him to the conclusion that evolution goes against nature.  It can be easily demonstrated by any first year chemistry student that the injection of energy into a system can do a lot to decrease entropy locally.  This demonstrates that Peck's religious delusions compromised his whole understanding of science.  Having an unsound worldview while you are being educated is dangerous because it can lead to your missing large chunks of your education, leading you to go on to publish falsehoods and spread your misinformation to a wide audience.  I had to award some negative stars for this lack of responsibility.

His analysis of "evil" may make a preacher proud, but from a scientific standpoint it is not only wildly speculative but just plain wrong for a psychoanalyst to adopt.  Evil implies full conscious volition, and the truth, as he is more or less willing to admit, is that evil people have gone down a path where they have surrendered adequate conscious controls, so it is really just pathetic that he uses the word at all.  Sadly, I can't report that Peck came to his senses; he descended deeper into this untenable topic of evil in his book "People of the Lie".  Groan.

The truth is, as any kindergartner knows, that evil is not a kind of laziness as Peck affirms, but willful misdirection through sophistry.  He doesn't just do it with the definition of evil, he does it whenever he redefines a common term.  Love is *not* as love does, as he states.  "Falling in love" is not a biological trap, with true love being the follow through of actions that comes later.  This misdirection, while useful as a platform for sermonizing about commitment and discipline, is patently untrue as anyone who has ever felt feelings of love knows.  The feeling of love is often and even usually not accompanied by appropriate follow through.  Sure, those who wish to be happy and mentally healthy should follow through, but often people in love hurt each other through neglect or even direct abuse.  The actual love is always the "in love" sensation which Peck wishes to misdirect us away from.  Without that, no amount of follow through will do any good.  Is "falling in love" a biological trick?  Dr. Peck, I would hope you would have the grace to recognize it for the ultimate gift of nature that it is and not disparage it.  Satan himself could not have drawn us off the mark more skillfully.

Doctor, heal thyself.  I must say, if ever a person showed the promise, the capacity and the inclination to get past a misguided worldview, this is the person.  Sadly, I say this tongue-in-cheek.  It is well known that those in the grip of religious pathology can rarely break free, even if they can talk about it.  I liken it to an extreme Stockholm Syndrome effect.  If you take a child hostage, what chance does he have?  

Adopting a "personal" religion won't serve you better than a second-hand religion so long as it is based on unsupported suppostions as well.  Those who would really take Peck's advice to heart will truly dispense with all religious notions they have heard from others and base their worldview on what they themselves have observed.  My parents were kind enough to leave me to my own devices and it has worked very well for me.  "Grace" is not coming to an accommodation with "God", it is coming to an accommodation with yourself.  It is the sense of peace and enlightenment that washes over you as you get in touch with your larger subconscious mind in various ways.  If you want a book that puts this beautifully, practically and without overt religious overtones, read "Gift of the Sea" by Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
