It's sooo easy to take a cheap shot and say that Anne Bird wrote this to finance her wine/carpaccio/Disneyland/Xanax habit, but if she did, that's okay.  Catherine Crier wrote a brilliant book about the Peterson case and I doubt all the proceeds are going to charity.

But what to make of this poorly written and not-terribly-well-thought-out book?  First of all, Ms. Bird clearly has some issues with being adopted, though why I don't know--her adoptive parents are loving, supportive, and RICHRICHRICH, as she takes pains to alert us.  I guess she's annoyed that Scott was considered the family "golden boy," though in my experience those kids generally end up worse than their siblings.  (My spouse has an acquaintance whose mother also considered him the "golden boy" and who could do no wrong--she even defended him when he put his own brother in the hospital.  He'll probably end up in court one day and his mother will be there pulling a Jackie Peterson).  But Ms. Bird just LOVES everybody when she first meets them, although she makes sure to tell us "I know it seems as if I liked everybody indiscriminately, but I'm actually not that way" (not a direct quote, obviously).  She thinks some aspects of Jackie Peterson's behavior is creepy--though it struck me that Mrs. Peterson was probably just awkward in the situation, who wouldn't be?--but nonetheless she and the Petersons go on trips to Disneyland, the shore, fancy restaurants, etc.  She proclaims that she and Laci are practically soul sisters though they meet about four times and only rarely talk on the phone.  Despite Ms. Bird's avowal that the purpose of her book is to "get justice for Laci and Conner" (this was accomplished at the trial, Anne!) Laci is a cardboard character who likes flowers, shopping, and complains about her aching back.  

There are some interesting tidbits about Scott and the rest of the Peterson clan, which saves the book from a 1-star rating.  We already knew about his porn channels, of course, but the pattern of silly lies (like claiming he and Laci were going to name the baby "California"--Anne hilariously writes "I didn't know what to make of that"), going out boozing with Anne while the search is going on, Jackie's defense of Scott's lies to Amber Frey with "Well, he's been all those places!"--if it weren't for the fact that a woman and her unborn baby are dead, these people would make wonderful Springer or Maury guests.  This includes Ms. Bird, who sits watching "Murder, She Wrote," neglecting her kids and jeopardizing her marriage because "He's my brother."  I'd argue that her adoptive siblings are her "brothers," but I guess she feels differently.  Her "33 reasons" are pretty ludicrous (Laci was almost certainly NOT killed in the pool) consisting primarily of such insights that Scott Peterson was at Cal Poly when Kristen Smart disappeared (again, almost certainly not a connection), Scott making "flirtinis" for the babysitter and getting into the Mile-High club (again, chilling details, but not dispositive).  She also "reads" guilt into a tale Scott weaved for her regarding a children's cemetery that he and Laci supposedly stumbled on and a vision that Scott had of Laci.  Again, Scott's guilty--but these stories don't really tell us much that we don't get in Catherine Crier's far superior book.     

As for dissembling, Anne Bird proves she's not above it herself.  We are asked to believe that upon hearing Laci is dead, her three-year-old son takes his crib mattress and tries to drag it outside saying, "I'm going to put this outside for Aunt Laci for when she falls down from the heavens."  PLEASE!  Also, for all her talk about believing Scott to be innocent at first, she seems curiously eager to get involved in the case.  She had absolutely no useful information to give either the defense or the prosecution (seems like she tried one, then the other) and when she failed to get her sufficient 15 minutes of fame, she hitches her wagon to Gloria Allred and peddles her stories in this book.  If you can borrow a friend's copy or check it out of the library, it's a fun read if you were a Peterson trial junkie (which probably includes most of the country). Again, stories of the wildly dysfunctional Petersons would be funnier if Laci and Connor weren't horribly dead...but Anne's working out her "adoptee" issues, so I guess it's all right.  Uhhh-huhhh.....      
