Julian Simon won a famous ten-year-long bet with Paul Erlich regarding the prices of certain resources in the 1980's, which Simon predicted would decline in real terms. If Simon hadn't died a few years ago and he had made a similar set of bets with someone starting in 1995 for resources like Atlantic cod, copper, nickel, natural gas in North America and petroleum, by 2005 he would have lost, and spectacularly so. Apparently Simon's model for "unlimited" resources has begun to break down. The increasingly strained world oil supply shows that throwing more ingenuity and money at a resource problem can't always solve it. For example, despite having access to petroleum and natural gas from the North Sea, with the double-digit decline in North Sea output the British government has plans for _rationing_ fossil fuels this winter (2005-06) in the event of prolonged frigid weather. 

And why do people keep referring to the Simon/Ehrlich bet any way? It doesn't follow from that contest that things haven't gone awry now. 

As for the reviewer who blames government regulations and environmentalists for our current resource constraints, consider the following:

1. The world consumes a billion barrels of oil every 12 days or so at the current rate, up by 20 percent from a decade ago. If environmentalists and government regulators have tried to interfere with the growth of this flow of petroleum, they have clearly failed.

2. Much of our oil comes from parts of the world with few or no environmental restrictions. Even within the U.S., people along the Gulf Coast live with a level of petroleum-derived pollution and environmental damage that the rest of the country wouldn't tolerate. 

3. Evolutionary psychologists will tell you that when people experience economic anxiety, they often blame other tribes for the resource problems they helped to cause themselves. If you feel anxious about having to pay twice as much for natural gas or gasoline as you did a couple years ago, look in the mirror for the reason instead of blaming caricatures from the Right's demonology
