I had to read this book for my college history class, and I have to say I couldn't even get through the entire thing.  I love reading, and I'm enthralled with Ancient Egyptian history, so it was not as though I was going into it not even knowing the content.  I already knew much about the man known as Ramesses II, his wives and children, and much of what he had accomplished in Egypt during his reign, including Abu Simbel, Karnak and the Ramesseum (his mortuary temple), but this book just drug on and on.  I knew names, so that never confused me, but I think for people (especially in my class) who had to read this book and are not familiar with many of the previous reigning Egyptian pharaohs or their names, including pronunciation, it can be an extremely confusing read.  Tyldesley goes into too much detail of other pharaohs, using their names much too often, and as I said, for people who do not know Egypt, it can be extremely hard to follow.  Even I, being an Egypt lover, would get confused from time to time as to whom exactly she was talking about.  I would think that she was describing Ramesses at one point, but when I would read it over again, I would find that she was describing Seti or Amenhotep or Ramesses I.  I thought this book was going to be a piece of cake, considering it was less than 207 pages, I am a fast reader (I read Anne Rice books and get done with them in a couple of weeks, if they're long... 500+ pages), and also because, as I said before, I already have a decent amount of knowledge in Ancient Egyptian history so I thought I would enjoy it, but I found that it was a very slow read for me, and it became dull after the first chapter.  As I said, I had to get this book for my college history class, but even being an Egypt lover, I might have seen it in a bookstore and bought it just because it deals with the most fascinating civilization our world has ever known (in my opinion), but I even regret buying it for required reading.  I had also checked out Tyldesley's biography of Queen Hatshepsut from the library for a project in the same class, and even from the little bit that I read of that, I can tell that it is her style of writing, not just the Ramesses book, that I do not like.  Overall I found Ramesses to be a waste of money
