Reading the previous reviews, several things are evident. The West Palm Beach review is nothing more than an ad hominen attack on a previous review.  Furthermore, the Palm Beach reviewer mistakes sticking to the subject with "we're the only game in town" argument/counterargument assertion.  It is very easy to ignore Hofstede's work completely, start from zero and perform a real cross cultural analysis, 2-3 three countries at a time, starting IN the native language and then making a comparison that speaks in its own voice.  This is NOT the same as Hofstede's doing the surveys in English and then translating them twice.  The Palm Beach reviewer also falls into the argumentum ad ignorantium fallacy (must be true because it hasn't been proven false) by saying "I mean that no reputable research on cultural values will fail to include Hofstede's work because it has been so influential" as well as appeal to celebrity.

While Dr. Littrell tends to lecture, he fails to address the problems of sample sizes in Hofstede's work.  As for Schwartz's work, folks who speak read and write Japanese, Korean or Chinese and who have lived in one of the respective countries for more than 3 years know that Schwartz's "prototypical structure of value systems" as well as his 1997 "Influences on Adaption.." paper don't come near East Asian thinking.

The odd fact is that the Palm Beach reviewer and Littrell both admit that Hofstede's work falls short.  The Palm Beach reviewer states," I don't mean that I think it is good" and "I have only read probably half of it" but then gives the book a five star rating. Littrell tangents on Hawkings but then covers for Hofstede by saying, "Theories are not facts".  

Well statistics, when done right, reinforce theories enough to become a reliable base for future work but several reviewers clearly point out, with references, the shortcomings of Hofstede's statistical methods which again is odd considering the tone of these two reviewers. 

Hofstede's work is useless and his defenders should work harder at dealing with the specific criticisms raised rather than pontificating or making condescending innuendo.  Sampling just students or just company employees should ring alarm bells for statistical skewness.  Furthermore, it is absolute cultural condescension to assume that a non native speaker of a given language can think like a native by using his own language and bring out a mere handful of qualities that are both universal and consistent across not just a few cultures but all at the same time.  The Eurocentric hubris running through this study undermines the credibility of the assumptions and conclusions.

The researcher must not speak for the culture.  The culture must speak for itself and this is the main point where Hofstede and his followers have failed completely.  For those with critical thinking skills, read the reviews that are negative and the journal responses between McSweeney and Hofstede and then construct your own model. For those who dare, remember, no one man or woman can complete this project by himself because no one in this world has such a Tower of Babel level of experience of the cultures expressed in their native languages. 

Universalism is a big lie.  That's your starting point. 100% matching of traits across 200 nations will not happen when the study is properly conducted nor will the study's "voice" be censored by one corporate culture with statistically unreliable sample sizes.  Understand this and you are on your way to a true understanding of cross-cultural phenomenon
