I'm interested to read what this book is saying. However, it's obvious we must do a few checks first before reading this book (or any book of this manner) as the way we will lead our life is determined by what we think and even life after death. Here are some important checks...

1. How do we know that this is all absolute truth? Are there 2-3 signs that it is? If not how do we know this is worth taking on board?
2. What are the results or fruit of the philosophies that are mentioned. For example, if it's good to be "self indulgent" as the book says what happens if we have a car accident and no one helps us and we end up permantly injured etc., due to everyone being self indulgent and not helping! Surely that philosopy isn't great! So that is a good way to weigh up truth from non truth.
4. Remember, if you want someone to believe a lie you must add some truth or even lots of truth to it to get people to believe it (almost as bait if you like) this is a characteristic of Satan so be warned. So the book may have truth in it but is this "bait?"
5. With Anton Lavey check: -  what are the results or fruits in his life? For example, does he have total inner peace with himself or just anger? Do checks for yourself!
6. Already there are a few mistakes reviewers have made i.e. "7 deadly sins." This phrase isn't actually mentioned once in the "Holy Bible." It's a Hollywood term! The Holy Bible says about the 10 commandments but even then it says in Galatians 3:24 that if we have made Jesus Lord then we are not under these laws but will want to fulfil them because of hearts desire!
7. Remember that Satan is a liar and the father of all lies! Quote:- Holy Bible John 8:44 "He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it."
8. An interesting point to consider is that Anton lavey got into Satanism because of anger against church hypocrites. Did he ask the question, "are the hypocrites actually true Christians?" Example:- Holy Bible warns against false teachers, false prophets of God and False Christians as "wolves in sheeps clothing!"

When all these points are pondered only then should this book be read!

