This is probably the most detailed account of PSI research in print. The style is slanted towards the popular with many anecdotal stories dispersed in it, but is also full of detailed accounts of one scientific test after the other, all rather amazingly showing that PSI phenomena exist. Everything is proved: telepathy? check, clairvoyance? check, precognition? check, telekinesis? check, mental healing? check, field consciousness? check. Does distance diminish the PSI effect? Nope. Time? Neither. Special people required? Mostly no, everybody can do it. Sounds too good to be true? Maybe. 

Now the fact is that there have been hundreds of experiments performed under fairly careful research conditions for over half a century. Most of them detected statistical evidence in favor of the hypothesis of PSI. Meta-analyses of these results, i.e. analyses that take into account the data of several similar studies, result in overwhelming evidence in favor of the reality of PSI phenomena. The frustration of the author is palpable when he recounts that even so mainstream science does not take PSI at all seriously. 

So what's going on? The author's thesis of course is that PSI is real and that the scientific status quo resists recognizing this fact because it upsets the accepted wisdom. I think another perhaps more likely explanation is this: PSI does not exist, but the more experiments you make the more reason you will find that it does, and this because the tests are not symmetrical: the deck of cards is slightly stacked in favor of PSI. Therefore most experiments will tend to show some small positive evidence, and a large number of such experiments will show statistically impressive results. Here is the asymmetry: 

There are three possible results an experiment can show: If the result is close to the expected random value then PSI has not been detected; if the result is larger than expected then it counts as positive evidence for PSI, but if the result is less than expected then it proves there is an error in the experimental setup. In this latter case the researchers will certainly look for and correct that error, whereas when confronted with a positive result they will not always try as hard, assuming that they are observing evidence of PSI. This asymmetry may be slight, but is always there. Another asymmetry concerns the experiments related to the paranormal transfer of information. There is no such thing as negative leakage of information; only positive leakage is possible even in well designed experiments, and this will show up as a slight PSI effect. Finally there is the human factor that cannot really be completely factored away. Suppose that after a long and arduous experimental process some evidence in favor of PSI has been gathered and then, suddenly, a significant negative measurement is made that would ruin the statistics. It's conceivable that a tired assistant will think that he must have committed some mistake somewhere and decide to simply repeat this particular round. So I think it's fair to suggest that what the meta-analyses in this book measure is not the presence of PSI but the presence of this real world experimental asymmetry. 

The book demonstrates this asymmetry in several places. In one case (page 171) a researcher investigates whether the weather at the graduations at Princeton University is really better than expected as the result of many people wishing for this. So he studies the weather data over a thirty year period and finds that, contrary to PSI, the weather on graduation day was a little worse in Princeton as compared to nearby towns. So he investigates this annoying negative result and discovers that the statistic is marred by only one case: heavy rain that fell on the day of the 1962 graduation. He investigates further and happily announces that it rained only after the graduation ceremony had ended. Well, he apparently did not investigate the other years at the same detail, and he certainly would not have investigated further if the result happened to be positive to begin with.

The main reason why I found this book unconvincing is that if PSI existed it would be easy to demonstrate. No meta-analysis of a huge number of studies is needed; one good experiment suffices. The test I found most impressive is also the simplest one: to have subjects mentally affect the result of random number generators. This experiment is easy and cheap to set up, is so simple that errors can easily be removed, and is easy to reproduce (the book claims that all subjects were successful in nudging the RNG outside of its operational parameters). If it works it would prove that PSI is real. The fact that PSI believers instead of concentrating on one simple experiment are instead all over the place describing results of disparate, old, and complex studies is a bad sign.

Another way to easily prove the existence of PSI would by using casino statistics. If there is one place where PSI should be present it is there. The author got some daily data about the money dropped and money won at different games such as roulette. If he had only gotten data about the number of roulette plays he could have easily demonstrated that the money won was more than expected thus demonstrating PSI. In the book he claims that casinos are reluctant to share such data, but I wonder why. If PSI were demonstrated it would a huge boon for the casino business. In fact casinos themselves could easily demonstrate PSI using their own people. Why hasn't any one casino ever done so? The only reasonable answer is because no PSI effect is to be found in their data. 

So in conclusion, even this book did educate me about the arguments in favor of PSI and made me wonder and think about this issue, the net effect has been to strengthen my belief that PSI does not exist. 
