You know when your talking to your friend and their new boy/girlfriend and they start telling you some cutesy story that they think is hilarious... but it's just stupid and cheesy to you? That's this book. 

First off, let me say that the book is written by someone who is a horrendous writer. His writing style is one of massive cliche overuse and a near total lack of relevant or interesting detail. 

Secondly, the details he gives on the training are wholly uninteresting, save  few spots where he actually touches on the how things work or how people were feeling. He was either so incredibly specific (how long it took him to dig his car out of snow in a parking garage, for instance), or was skimming any amount of interesting detail. I get that this is a book about the CIA and that details are likely very limited. But there could have been MUCH more detail, there could have been ANY level of emotional discussion. This program can't be easy, yet the author makes it sound like the hardest part of the year long program was dealing with someone using cuss words. He'd start stories of interest (the guy sneaking off campus to meet his wife and getting busted) and then completely forget to mention the outcome.

Third, and with all due respect... the writing is a train wreck. He says the same thing over and over and over. There were literally three endings to the book (last chapter, afterword, author's notes) that say basically the same uber-patriotic ramblings about the greatness of his class. We get it, move on. Here's a couple of my favorite train wreck excerpts:

"... I gather with my office and enjoy a few adult beverages at Pizzeria Uno" (He always says "adult beverages", as though "beer" or "liquor" are classified words)

"...The [motorcycle] will remain on U.S. soil while he is out of the country. The unavoidable separation of man and machine is quite moving" (no, it's really not... it's a just cheesy)

"

The only reason this book rates a 2 star rather than 1 is that the author does give a few interesting new tidbits I didn't know before. But overall this is a DO NOT BUY
