This is probably the most amusing book of the USA trilogy, with a lot of sex and a certain amount of playfulness in the writing. Dos Passos is the kind of writer, however, who is often funnier when he is being scathing than when he trying to amuse. His politics are so badly dated that he often comes across as a reactionary pig just when he wants to be a revolutionary. 

Case in point -- lovable Charley Anderson, the flyer who wants to become a captain of industry, is ultimately destroyed by his own lust, greed, and stupidity. Along the way, however, Dos Passon represents him as a "victim" of the rapacious Senator Planet, who is meant to be some sort of predatory aristocratic homosexual. The irony is that the mild, practically gallant flirtation the senator indulges in seems positively tame today, but Dos Passos sees it as The Ultimate Horror. Who coulda thunk that gay-bashing would go stale in just sixty years? Dos Passos sure didn't see it coming. 

Other interesting thing, of course, is that Charley is the easy prey of his rich, cruel grasping wife. Some of their sex scenes are sexy, and the irony is that Gladys is a lot more of a feminist heroine than Mary French. When she doesn't want sex with Charley, she says so! I guess to dumb old Dos Passos it's only working men who have the right to go on strike. 

By the same token, Margo Dowling, the luscious and high-spirited movie queen who makes it big in tinsel town, is actually quite a likeable charcter. But Dos Passos can't help taking digs at her first husband, a handsome Latino hunk who is -- guess what -- a gay man. Was there some kind of Latino self-loathing here? Dos Passos was a Portuguese, and not particularly masculine. Anyway, some of Margo and her husband's adventures are funny, but Dos Passos can't let them speak for themselves. He has to keep reminding you that handsome Ramon is a sissy -- like that justifies having him murdered off stage. 

Read this book if you feel like a few cheap laughs on a man who outlived all his own ideas by a good thirty years.
