If you know how pull-down menus, tabs, and buttons work, and you can figure out all on your own that clicking on the tabs marked "Face", "Hair", "Material", etc. will lead you to the places where you can edit the character's face, hair, and materials/textures, you are far smarter that the person this author had in mind when he wrote this book.    

Maybe I can explain best using an example. For each "room" - hair, face, material - he uses a similar structure. In the Material Room chapter, he spends pages 122 to 126 describing what you see when you open the Materials room interface. This is one of MANY lessons on "using the interface", which takes up all of chapter one (45 pages on how the interface works) but is ALSO repeated throughout the book. 

In this case, what you see - what he will describe - is the Shader window, which has some pretty obvious stuff: a help button, two pull-down menus labelled Object and Material, and two tabs labelled Simple and Advanced. Then there's some less obvious stuff: a texture map, a variety of controls with names like "diffuse color", "ambient", "reflection" across the top and "add subsurface scattering", "set ambient occlusion", "IBL", etc. down one side.

The author completely ignores all that stuff about ambient occlusion and diffuse color. He spends page after page explaining what the "object list" (a pull-down by which you can select which object is being edited), "material list", etc., and how the "simple" tab and the "advanced" tab offer the user a selection between simplified controls vs. more advanced ones. 

Then, when you do finally graduate to a real tutorial, it turns out to be pretty simple stuff. Lesson Two in my above example (the materials room chapter) is how to load and save textures. There are two sidebars on pages 129-130 that summarize the entire process of loading (p. 129) and saving (130). Really they aren't all that advanced: loading involves opening a library and double-clicking, while saving involves pressing the save button. However, he still has to spend an entire lesson on this, because he's got to talk about all the things you'll find along the way -  for instance, he mentions in the text (but not the sidebar) that when you press the Save To Library button, you'll get a dialog box allowing you to name your new texture. (Because we all know how overwhelming it is to be confronted with a box demanding that you name something.)

In this - and all - lessons, it's at a VERY basic level.
