First of all, consider the question that Lewis is trying to ask. What went wrong with the 'Middle East' and their 'failure' to modernize? And now think about how big this book is, about 150 pages. The 'Middle East' is a huge area extending from Morocco to Iran and he attempts to explain their 'failure' to modernize by reviewing the last years of the Ottoman Empire. That is just plain lazy work on the part of a historian who is supposed to be revered in his field. 

Another issue is that he constantly refers to the 'Middle East' as 'Islam' as though Islam is homogenous or even centered in the Ottoman Empire. Granted the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire was also the Caliph but the Twelver Shi'is don't consider him to be legitimate anyway. To consider Islam to have some kind of collective thought process when encountering the 'West' is reprehensible. Consider now the fact that the majority of Muslims don't even live in the Middle East or the Ottoman Empire. How can Lewis truthfully use the term 'Islam' in his book to refer to the entity that 'went wrong' when the area he's speaking about doesn't even constitute the majority of Muslims in the world!? 

This book is a quick read for people who aren't in the field to think that they're informed about what is going on in the scary area known as the 'Middle East'. The worst part is that the only people who would know that this is full of holes and lacking greatly in background and professionalism are the people who wouldn't normally read it anyway. This is a dangerous book because the name Bernard Lewis is synonymous with Expert in Middle East affairs. This was a lazy, half hearted attempt to cash in on people's ignorance and only perpetuates the wrong ideas in people's minds. Bad Lewis, very very bad. Any 'liberal historian' who suggests this book should be beaten with this book, unfortunately for us the book is very thin so it will take a while to bring him down with it.

If you want better sources, look to John Esposito, Albert Hourani and Nikki Keddie. All of them have published widely and lack the obvious political biases of Bernard Lewis. Check them out.
