I bought this book after reading the wonderful reviews by some excellent reviewers and felt sure that this book would enlighten me as to the mystery of death.  Forgive me, P. Atwater, but I found the beginning of the book so hard to believe, that I couldn't take the rest seriously enough.  Perhaps the book 'After Death Then What'  - also recommended by a highly respected reviewer would have been a better place for me to start.

For instance,  when Atwater explains the circumstances of her three deaths, she relates how she miscarried and severely hemorrhaged in the bathroom, which precipitated her first death upon the bathroom floor. She then comes back to life, struggles five blocks to the doctor's office where she collapses in his office.  The doctor apparently doesn't even look at her chart and, while laughing uproariously at the fact that she'd been taken advantage of and raped, injects her in the right thigh with an unknown drug to stop the bleeding and sends her home.

Now, I have very little faith in doctors and constantly question their conclusions, but never have I heard of a doctor who would laugh in the face of a collapsed hemorrhaging woman and then just send her back out to her car to drive home alone.  And if this did happen, why did Atwater not haul him over the coals for malpractice?

The second death occurs as a result of a blood clot forming in her right thigh, causing the 'worst case of phlebitis (the doctor) had ever heard of, let alone seen.  He kept saying "There's no way you can be alive" ".  However, he, too, just sends her home with a prescription of 'dangerous drugs'.  Thus follows a second death from a burst blood clot which Atwater manages to return from unaided.

The third death is the result of the rejection of the man who had raped her coming back to ask her forgiveness (which Atwater gives), and then refusing to listen to her relate the experiences of her previous two deaths.   Apparently, the "emotional blow of being refused was at the core of death number three" She is brought back to life by her son, who sits opposite her and 'talks' her back to life.  No physical intervention such as mouth to mouth resuscitation etc. - just talks.  Later, 'several physicians' verify that if her son had called for medics, Atwater would have gone too far to be resuscitated.  

There appears to have been no medical verification at any time that any of these deaths actually occurred.  I'm not suggesting that Atwater is making things up, just that perhaps she may have left her body and had an astral experience that may or may not have been actual death.  Three times returning from 'death' with no help is quite extraordinary, as most medical people will verify after working hard to bring someone back who has 'died' on the operating table.

At this point, I put the book down and forced myself to read the rest later.  Yes, there are some very good points raised, but I'm afraid that I wasn't convinced - much as I would like to be.  

