Does Turtledove devoutly wish the South had won the Civil War for its own sake, or is he just one of those admirers of Robert E. Lee (there were many at my alma mater, Vanderbilt) who can't bear that his hero came out on the losing side? Either way, surely Turtledove could have come up with a better vehicle for reversing the outcome of the Civil War than South African racists traveling back in time to arm the American rebels with yet-to-be-invented guns. The thugs of the 21st century have misjudged the motives of the noble South and the nobler-still Lee, but the general will accept their weapons anyway, thank you. This trick presages the wooden plotting and shallow characterizations to come. Turtledove's main non-historical character is a teacher-soldier who seems to come out of and return to nowhere, with no mention of family or background. Characterization in general has Turtledove stumped, so he turns to cliches, such as the prostitute with a heart of gold (this one masquerades as a male and dons a uniform to serve the Confederacy and service the main character). Turtledove even has a tragic mulatto woman on a postwar auction block. Blacks are few and rare in Turtledove's novel, and they are swept off the stage after the briefest of appearances, speaking only conventional phrases, and in dialect, of course. Both the rupture of the American Union and the continued births and deaths of millions of Americans in slavery (his Lee fashions a gradual emancipation in which blacks will "earn" their freedom decades into the 20th century) are treated by Turtledove as worthy of little more than a shrug. The more ambitious but nearly as wooden "alternate history" novel, Ward Moore's "Bring the Jubilee," at least was very sober about the consequences of a rebel victory. If you are going to reverse the outcome of a war so momentous in American and world history, don't do it as trivially as Turtledove has done in this book. There is potential for a great story in the fictional reversal of the outcome of our Civil War, but "The Guns of the South" is not it
