I recently found this first book of Durant's impressive-looking multivolume history set at my local library and was instantly enraptured at the thought of a comprehensive tour down through the ages of our known history. Unfortunately my expectations were soon dashed as I began to read. Instead of history, I found one man's opinions and a lot of rank speculation. While admittedly much of history is guesswork because, well, we weren't there, this author stretches that license beyond what is reasonable.

"History" as that term is normally defined means a narrative of what happened, when it happened, where it happened, and to whom it happened. In several hundred pages I learned very little to answer these fundamental questions. What I found instead were rather strained conclusions and sometimes quite enormous logical leaps about cultural characteristics and mores of ancient peoples, often based on the scantiest of evidence. For example, the discovery of cereal grains in a non-native environment is interpreted to mean that a people "must" have already developed agriculture. What about the possibility of trade? What about the possibility that, at that time, the cereals in question were, in fact, native to that area? Large numbers of these types of sweeping conclusions, in my opinion, left me with little confidence in the credibility of what I was reading. Another example is the author's unabashedly Darwinistic bent that leads him to place far too much weight on the reliability of the "Peking Man" and similar fossil evidence. Even he uses words like "may" and "possibly" in describing whether these are, in fact, human remains. However, the extreme sketchiness of this and other evidence doesn't deter him from making rather dogmatic statements about presumed developments during the paleolithic period.

Similar to that were the author's repeated interjections of his own opinions about the development of culture, morality, social norms, etc. Again, as a student of history I want to know what happened, not the author's opinion about what happened. Yet when I read statements about how clothing developed as the result of a regressive cultural movement away from the "paradise of primitive nudity," quite frankly I just want to yak up my lunch. The author also seems to seize frequent opportunities to take jabs at the opinions and conclusions of other researchers. It was almost as if I were sitting in on one side of a petty squabble between a couple of petulant children.

In short, the flavor I got of Will Durant's master work in the first several hundred pages left me deeply disappointed. I was very much looking forward to reading the whole set, but now I cannot see the point of wasting any more time on even the first volume. Just because it's big and old, that doesn't mean it's great
