I read this book because after I read "Pure" by Rebecca Ray, I noticed this book was listed with "Pure" here on this site. I didn't really care for Rebecca Ray's book and I hope this one would be better. All this book did was made me realize that "Pure" really wasn't that horrible. If I could give this book zero stars, I would do it. It plays like an impossible fantasy put together by some stupid 20 year old who reads too many boring teen magazines still. In this book, It plays like a long letter some boring teenager is writing to her boyfriend. It never really feels like a letter though. That is such an contrived way for the author to tell her story. The teacher is never named either. The author describes sex scenes and the student mostly seduced the teacher. It sounds really dumb too. Like the author will go, "I switched sides I was laying on to look especially sexy for you" and if you like hearing that same sort of garbage over and over again, I guess this is the book for you. The author tries to sexualize a 14 year old and make it sound like her every movement or thought was about sleeping with her teacher. It was really disgusting that the author would write something like this and it was disturbing too. Normal kids don't think and act this way. It's clear that the author enjoys the fantasy of being just a teen with a adult lover but what she has done by writing this crap is try to make teen girls sound manipulative and over sexual. It's nasty. It's her twenty year old thoughts and words put into the body of a 14 year old for the story. Her story is not believeable anyway. The uncle and aunt never try to find their niece? The teacher never gets in trouble or found out for what he is doing? Not buying it. Also, the book has very many cringe worthy moments such as when she keeps berating the teacher, calling him stupid, encouraging him to sleep with her, yuck. And then it's "darling" this and "baby" everywhere else. It's sickening. After I read this, I threw it in a dumpster so noone else would have the misfortune of reading it. Not even fit to give away. horrible
