The following summarization of Petersen's book is excerpted from the book review-article titled "Unleashing the Storm," available from the website of Creation Ministries International.

"Summary

"If this review were about one or two problems or points of disagreement in a generally sound book, or if the book were such as to likely cause little impact, CMI would see little cause to risk the storm of censure that will doubtless come from many for having been this openly critical. However, the overwhelming thrust of this book falls into an extremely dubious, speculative and poorly argued category, one which may not be instantly obvious to the layperson, and much of what it argues is plain wrong. Most, if not all, of these questionable items have never been peer-reviewed in the creationist scientific journals.

"Apart from the Bible, no book, including any we publish, is perfect. But in this case, the potential for many thousands of people to be seriously misled into believing they have a major weapon, when it is a major step backwards for the creation movement, has led to this review. We also feel that this is the sort of book that your average neighborhood evolutionist will have been `waiting for', in a sense, to reinforce his prejudice that creationists do not understand evolutionary science and misrepresent it, etc. We believe that we have a responsibility to not just refrain from stocking it, but to actively warn against uncritically accepting its contents as if they were generally based on some sort of consensus from the global community of qualified creationist researchers. That would be far from reality.

"Final comment

"It is a hard thing to have to point out this tragic consequence of people `doing their own thing' in creation ministry without any sort of concession to the normal processes of peer review. It is especially hard, because the book is doubtless well-meant, and its motives good Christian ones. Readers of this review who have read the book will no doubt make their own judgment. But if the book doesn't convince creationists such as us, then readers should realize that evolutionists are even less likely to be swayed. At least readers will then be prepared when their evolutionist acquaintances gleefully commence their `demolition derby' on its contents.
