I have spent years studying the Knights Templar and have read countless books, both fact and fiction, about the group.  This book is advertised as a historical study, a factual timeline of the history of the Knights Templar.  According to the cover, it is "in detail unmatched by any other reference volume...Never before have the world's most intriguing knights had their incredible adventures and history so fully captured".

It is instead excessively concise (1 sentence covering an entire year of history), many times inaccurate or incorrect, and only 100 pages long (125 pages if you include the foreword, several oversimplified maps, and a note from the author).

Many stated 'facts' are based on books that are best classified as "conspiracy theories".  The bibliography lists many questionable books (some of which have been proven wrong); although there are several accurate books listed as well, the result is a muddled mix of history and guesstimating, blurring the lines between fact and fiction.

The author uses the recent popularity of "The Da Vinci Code" and the reemergence of "Holy Blood, Holy Grail" (going so far as to list the 2 titles in red on the back cover and stating that this book "is an even more extensive resource.") to profit quickly, yet he apparently did little research.  The result is a lot of incorrect information or information based in large part on conjecture.

If you are a beginner looking for basic information on the Templars, you might find use in this book as a starting point which leads to more accurate works, but be sure to research the specifics before you believe because a lot of the information is hypothesized or incorrect.

If you are looking for facts (detailed, accurate, historical information about the Templars) move on without looking back; you do not need this book.

There are plenty of accurate historical depictions of the Knights Templar; don't waste your time with this short, contrived, affected effort that was obviously published for a quick dollar
