Barrow, of anthropic cosmological principle fame, undertakes to examine the logical, practical, and psychological limits to human [scientific] knowledge. The result is a sometimes interesting, but more often disappointing exposition in the history of science and of philosophy. In a volume that is essentially a philosophical treatise, we find that even Cambridge mathematicians can expound rather sloppy logic, actually evidencing the limits imposed on human investigations by human psychological encumbrances (one of the author's themes). The author's first chapter consideration of visual and linguistic paradoxes features a feeble apologia for agnosticism, which employs a linguistic paradox as an argument against the existence of an omniscient being. Barrow, who seems to be fairly well studied in philosophy, should know that Augustine decisively trashed this type of argument 1600 years ago for reasons that seem apparent in Barrow's own choice of language. [Barrow's cited paradox attests merely that no finite being can know everything. Further, a variation of the paradox attests that no one could ever know that an omniscient being does not exist.] In the second chapter, discussing the limits of the human mind revealed by Immanuel Kant, Barrow states that we understand these problems "as Kant did not" to be explained by natural selection. Natural selection is, of course, a tautological proposition (stating that if gene a is more likely to succeed than gene b, then gene a is more likely to succeed than gene b). As Kant explained, and as any student of logic knows, a tautology explains nothing. Given Barrow's skeptical consideration of various other attempts at explanation, his non-analytical and repetitive alighting on this sacrosanct tautology is unfortunate. Barrow's opening fusillades here may be his weakest, but it doesn't get a great deal better. There are some discussions that I did enjoy: the author's consideration of selective as opposed to absolute limits; and his [re]visitation of a few of the fundamental 'coincidences' contributing to the anthropic principle (chapter 5).
Barrow's consideration of the human mind ("What are minds for?", chapter 4) is essentially useless. His conclusions (chapters 8 and 9) are interesting but don't warrant reading the entire book to reach them: "If this book has taught the reader anything, I hope that the notion of impossibility is far subtler than nave assumptions ... would lead you to believe."
Likely, this is one of John Barrow's weakest efforts. To the reader interested in the interplay of physics and philosophy I recommend Paul Davies' The Mind of God. For the reader who is interested in logic, this book may suffice as a brief introduction to the idea of limit and to Gdel's Incompleteness Theorem. Reading Immanuel Kant, one of the most finely disciplined minds in analytic history, would be of greater value, as would be a good epistemology text. Pass on this one
