I was forced to read this book over my holiday break for my AP US History class. Normally, we would have had a test on it upon return, but my teacher went soft and just let us read it without punishment. I was expecting it to be horrible, as are most books about history. However, it was slightly better than I expected. 

The lives of the characters really pulls you in, unlike most other crappy history books. This was the only thing that kept me from dying to death of bordeom. There were very long and dull sections where the author went straight into "history mode" and started explaining all the historical details of the time. This was when it got hard to read, and I often found myself skipping entire paragaphs out of sheer boredom.

Another thing was that the book had no central plot. It was basically just the struggle of the Slovak immigrants in America. There was really no substance to the story. I suppose it was written that way because that was how it was in real life. A foreign immigrant's life really had no plot or meaning, so I guess that's why the book didn't. The real meaning of the book only picked up in the last 40 pages or so, with the whole union struggle. 

The thing that really angered/confused me was how the author freely switched around character's names. One minute, they were being referred to by their first name, and the next, everyone is calling them by their last name. Not to mention, sometimes between themselves, the Slovaks called each other by their Slovak names. This got very confusing, and made you wonder for a second... "Wait, who is that?" before you finally realized it was the same person as before, only under a different name. 

Also, the amount of characters in this book was ridiculous. IT could be compared to The Lord of The Rings character-wise. Random names are just thrown out at you, some of which you are expected to remember for later on in the story, and others which are essentially meaningless. 

Overall, the book wasn't too bad. It was better than your average historical novel, but still not something I would read voluntarily.

