  The author attempts to tell the story of the San Francisco Zen Center using the events leading up to the dismissal/resignation of Abbott-for-life, Zentatsu Richard Baker, in 1983. In the process, he interviews many people who experience euphoric or dysphoric recall about events that happened over twenty years ago. His achievement is a book which it seems tries to tell the story of almost anyone tangentially connected with SFZC during that time. As a result, he relates a perjorative tale of recrimination, grudges, and generally bad feelings that exist to this day. It is unfortunate that Professor Downing could not have used better literary technique and more restraint to shape the raw material he mined in these extensive interviews. This appears to be a genuinely lost opportunity. Instead, he gives us a gossipy, slanted piece of he said/she said, portraying the general membership of SFZC as mindless androids, who sit zazen and do their master's bidding without privilege of free will. Baker is painted as a Svengali-like character, who only becomes your friend or teacher so that he can use you for his own devices and priorities later on. Downing lays out this character study as the familiar absolute-power-corrupts-absolutely tale with the victims of that power having no control over their lives. Recently, non-Abbotts like Tom DeLay and Jack Abramboff served as examples of these types of personages. Regardless of who you believe in this National Enquirer rendering of Buddhism in America, the value of what is related is that the SFZC survives to this day and in resonably good health. It weathered a crisis as an organization and individuals, no matter how well or how poorly. As a symbol of Zen Buddhism in the United States, it remains on the journey to enlightenment, as do its members. You don't need 380-odd pages of war stories to illustrate the point. Unless you want to look for this title in the two dollar bargin bin at your local book store, go to the SFZC's website. They seem capable of telling their own story, warts and all.        
