In this book Searle takes on the broad topics of scientific realism, the mind-body problem and the puzzle of socially constructed concepts (e.g. money), among other things.  His goal seems to be to defend the "common sense" view on these topics, but as a philosopher he wants to do so rigorously.  In this case, "rigorous" means mixing lots of specialized terminology with an otherwise breezy style, which has the overall effect of making him sound smug.  His is a rare style that manages to convey that the author would sneer at any counterarguments to his positions; maybe this is because he stakes out his ground almost wholly by attacking the positions of others and deeming them obviously wrong.  

What's worse, despite his fantastic reputation, his philosophy seems really sloppy to me.  For example, he claims that "consciousness" is a definite non-physical property of the brain that has evolved.  Then, he argues against epiphenomenalism by noting how implausible it would be that something so useful evolved while making no real difference.  Seeing as how evolution is a physical theory, Searle seems to be arguing in circles.  And that's about how the whole book is, seeing as how you have to buy into his mind-body "resolution" before you can even start pondering his ideas on the other stuff.

So, if you feel that invoking "the way it is like" to drink a glass of wine is a good philosophical argument for consciousness being non-physical and are already dead-certain that rocks have no such sensations, the you might find this book a reassuring read.  

Personally, I think that to understand a proposition you have to also understand its negation.  And while Searle claims to be an expert at characterizing what it is to be conscious, I have a hard time taking any of his "analysis" seriously, since he surely can't explain to me what it's like to be unconscious.  

For those with a scientific bent, there are better authors out there covering similar material.  In particular, I recommend "Philosophical Foundations of Neuroscience", by Max Bennet and PMS Hacker.  Hacker makes sure the philosophy is reasonable, Bennet makes sure the science is accurate.  Searle's book falls a little shy in both areas, which makes his smuggness all the more infuriating
