Recovering drug addict William Cope Moyers is the son of award winning journalist Bill Moyers.  And he won't let you forget it. Although the first few pages of his memoir, an account  of his parents tracking him down in an Atlanta crack house after a six-day drug binge, are compelling, the following section, his recollections from childhood up to the binge, is downright boring.  It tells of an over-privileged kid of below average intelligence (ranked 210 out of 487 in high school) and uses amateurish phrases like, "My most painful memory isn't even something I can remember," icing on a cake is described as so rich that, "the sugar crunched like sand between your teeth," and after drinking, "my bladder was stretched like a water balloon."  Seemingly ordinary childhood behaviors are given special significance as precursors to his addiction, like his kindergarten teacher's report card comment that he, "shouldn't talk out in the classroom whenever he wants," first grade, "needs improvement in exercising self-control," and, of schoolmates "kids would tease me and make up little taunting phrases." 

He name drops (sometimes repeatedly) feeling compelled to share the fact that he has met folks like Mike Wallace, Fidel Castro, Dan Rather, Lyndon Baines Johnson, Paul McCartney, and Bill Clinton; toots his own horn, recounting a story of his bravery in helping firefighters rescue two people from a burning building, even including the letter of commendation he received from the local chief of police; and places self-deserved blame squarely on the shoulders of others, during a night of college drinking, "the bartender should have stopped serving me when it was obvious I was drunk," of his father's post college graduation letter, "I wonder how my life might have been different if my father had insisted I get professional help," on his first wife showing up to visit after his stint in Hazelden, during which he began an inappropriate relationship with (and later married) another resident, "after refusing to go to the family session together...here she was getting in the way of my new relationship." Ultimately he divorces, remarries, has children and gets a job that allows him to do something he is good at, helping raise awareness and affecting addiction-related public policy. 

His most telling quote, "I always felt that I had the unfair advantage of being Bill Moyer's son," will cause many to think, "You did!" Although the writing in the last half of the book, especially that dealing with his four relapses and struggle to remain sober (which will ring true to anyone who has experience with addicts or addiction), is an improvement over the first half, the letters and notes from family members and acquaintances and rehashed journal entries that he includes detract from the overall story. Frey's lies (A Million Little Pieces), prefaced with the phrase, "Based on a true story," are much better written and were published without help from a famous father. Anyone interested in reading a memoir about how alcoholism (and poverty) affects a family, would enjoy The Glass Castle (good) and Angela's Ashes (great).
