If there is one thing that rings true of the editor's review, it's that Robert Spencer is "lawyerly" - but not in the sense the editor meant, rather in the sense that he deliberately twists the facts in order to argue his case despite the facts.  This book is full of misquotations of the sayings of Muhammad (ahadith), and they are obviously deliberate as Mr. Spencer has taken the time to research the ahadith and yet still makes enormous errors in his rendering of them.  He spends a considerable amount of time quoting from the Bible and comparing his interpretation of the Christian doctrine (which I would guess a great many Christains will have issue with, as well) with what he claims to be the message of Islam.  He also spends a great deal of time attempting to assassinate the personality of Muhammad with the argument that Muhammad is the role model for all Muslims - hence by assasinating this personality he hopes to assasinate the character of Islam and all Muslims.  Despite his opening claim that he is not targeting all Muslims, the goal of his book, really, is to draw suspicion upon every Muslim in America from their non-Muslim neighbors.  His basic premise that Islam in essence is a falsehood and that all Muslims have deceived themselves with a backward and dated belief system that has failed to evolve, as he puts it, as Christianity has evolved from its backwardness by reducing the Bible to strictly metaphorical meanings.  The crux of his arguement is that Christianity is able to do this, because, as Christian scholars have shown, the Bible is in fact not the direct word of God,  but the Quran, on the other hand, is taken by Muslims as the direct, revealled word of God and hence there is little or no room for the religion to be re-interpreted.  If one reads (or listens, in the case of the audio book) carefully, though, it will not be hard to find the many instances in which Mr. Spencer contradcits himself.  All in all, it does read like a lawyer making his case in court, where it is Islam itself that is on trial.  Mr. Spencer seems to be trying to establish that the likes of Osama bin Laden are in fact   only following the letter of their religion, and hence Islam is a danger to be feared and reacted to preemtively.  Mr. Spencer seems to have strong political and religious motivations and is a far cry from his claim of being unbiased
