After one year in the real estate industry, I needed to clean my book shelf. This book was thrown into the box marked "useless". 
Let me tell you why.

The first time I bought and read it, I had no real working experience and thought I got great information about industry. Thus I thought I was ahead of other newbies. I read this book so many times, underlined, and dog eared.
Looking back, the only thing this book was right is "average income is very low".
For the rest, unfortunately, I found this book actually mislead me too much and lead me to costly mistakes. 

One example. The author suggested that office located in busy street is better for newbies. I found this was not true. I worked with 3 offices.  

The other example is that the author suggested that bigger office is better for newbies. I found this is absolutely not true. The reality is it's much better to start with small office where you can easily find mentor. In reality, in large offices, competition among salespersons are high to the level that no one cares about helping newbies. Get the fact. Everyone is working on commission. They don't even wast time to go lunch with you!!! And here's the facts. This business of real estate sales is not really intellectual, not even to the level of professional. It's all about how much people you know and how much people know you. This is rather a business of convenience. Every other salesperson even in the same office is a potential enemy for your business!!! Why they help and teach you to suceed. It only reduces their chance of making listings and sales!!!

Once I realized this, after actually working in industry, I knew this book was useless and never refered to this book for anything. 

One and a half year after I actaully got into the industry, I found the very useful book. If you are about to be a real estate salesperson, read "How to suceed in commercial real estate" by John L. Bowman. I know this is for commercial real estate. But this book is WAY BETTER than "Your First Year in Real Estate". 

Don't make costly maistakes by reading "Your First Year in Real Estate". 80-90% newbies fail in first 3 months. Reading wrong books can be fatal for your career.


 





