Breath-taking! I have worked and traveled in  Russia  and the CIS over  the past ten years and I am reminded of the story of the two scientists who went to the seashore to discover what a beach was. The first scientist observed the waves and tides pounding the rocks and said, "Aha! Big rocks grind together to make smaller and smaller rocks until we get some pretty grains of sand!" 

The second scientist went to the beach with a pair of tweezers and a magnifying glass, and spent all day selecting grains of sand according to his preference of shape, size, weight and color. Then he hauled his sand collection to his laboratory and began to categorize and cross-compare each grain of sand with the grains of sand from foreign country's  beaches until he felt he had enough data to write a book about how large Russian rocks preyed on small Russian rocks and how pretty pieces of Russian sand were rare; and that the pretty pieces were always buried in the mud of a Gulag and how all the rest of the sand grains had to hide the audacity to strive to be beautiful - which could somehow provoked the envy of the big rocks into oppressing the sand grains. 

In the end, his book was full of clever sophistry and cynical blame for the majority of the Russian sand grains wanting to be beautiful. He concocted his own "Cosmic Law" which stated that Russian sand grains were either content to live in dreary, collective layers because they did not want to be envied by other Russian sand grains who were afraid of the bigger rocks -or that all Russian sand grains should strive to rise to the top where they could hide under new "Laws" which would protect them from learning responsibility and from thinking for themselves; thus keeping all the grains of sand under "soft" control and diverted from trying to be better sand-grain souls.

I hesitate to use a four letter word to describe the author's covertly angry, bitter and abusive criticism of the evolving and talented  Russian people who have, after several hundred years only just begun experiencing the decency of a leader from their very own country. (Even Stalin was Georgian), but so, for the opportunity for the discerning sociologist to experience and study a stunning and ingenious example of "Sophistry",  I shall give this book one star. The thundering silence of any encouraging word and the breathtaking jealousy of the re-emerging, responsible podvig of the Russian people will become self evident to students of ignorance versus spirited elan
