As a person who loves the dating/relationship genre, let me assure you that there are MUCH better books out there.  This book repackages the techniques usually recommended to salesmen--mirroring the other person in order to build rapport, and "speaking in their language."  And that's exactly what you'll be doing--selling a falsified version of yourself in a marginally effective and pretty awkward way.  (In spite of her exuberantly triumphant intro, Tracy Cabot is now divorced.  I imagine it was hard to sustain this manufactured "bond" for very long.)  

If you really want to learn about love languages, "The Five Love Languages" by Gary Chapman is much better.  It will teach you how to truly interpret and sincerely relate to expressions of love between you and your boyfriend/girlfriend/partner.  And if you want to make a man fall in love with you, "Why Men Love Bitches" by Sherry Argov is hands-down the best.  It takes the also-fabulous prinicples behind "The Rules" (which have worked for me beautifully) and makes them practicable for the modern and/or professional woman.  (I highly recommend The Rules--loosely interpreted--as well).  You can read any of these books in 2-3 hours.  I have read the latter two more times than I can count.

If after reading Why Men Love Bitches and The Rules, you haven't solved your dating problems, you probably need to read "He's Just Not That Into You"--which is not about dating as much as it is about recognizing the excuses women make for men when the truth isn't what we want.  (Gems include "No, he's not too busy to call you.  Calling you takes less time than going to the bathroom.  If he's into you, calling you is the bright moment in his otherwise busy day.")  This should definitely help build the correct mentality for expecting--and getting--both interest and great treatment from men.

And, finally, "What Southern Women Know About Flirting" has some tips and ideas that will help anyone, but particularly those inclined to play the "Damsel in Distress" card.  This one's just the icing on the cake
