I'd never heard of Mosley before I picked up (t)his book @ the library.  My first warning of the bias to come was that its dedicated to Danny Glover, who has taken the ultra-liberal stance of loons claiming America "deserved" 9/11.  

I read eight of the nine stories; two were character-driven and excellent, the rest were passable.  

Futureland takes place around 2030.  There is no privacy.  Citizens are monitored at all times, or can be as needed.  Corporations run the government; a software titan, quite mad, runs a great deal of the world from an island called Home (he's nothing like Bill Gates).  A permanent, official underclass of Unemployed--including those prevented from working if they disobey company rules--sits under New York. Offshore corporate prisons house inmates completely stripped of their citizenship.  Cloning is well out of its infancy with all the attendant promises and horrors to come.  A drug called Pulse, which creates ultra-real fantasies and illusions but is virtually guaranteed to kill its users by collapsing their brain tissues, is legal.  And the World's Greatest Boxer is a 6'9" coffee-skinned woman.  

In this fascinating yet unlikely world Mosley weaves his tales.  Sometimes the prose is shaky, and I disliked the way the overt (and unlikely) racism is portrayed with a chip on the author's shoulder.  Mosley, who is black (and unsmiling in the jacket photo) seems to have it in for Whites, but compared to the Mosleyverse, the amount of real world power Whites wield, now and in the future, is shrinking along with the worldwide White population; by 2030 Whites will be a tiny minority (and globally, already are).  There's not a single Hispanic in the book, and they're the fastest-growing American minority!  

I can't understand how an otherwise skilled author, easily capable of illustrating the monstrousness of gigantic and abusive governments, doesn't realize that free markets are what bring people out of poverty; nothing else.  Hope you eventually come out of the communist fog you're in, M Mosley.

Post-script:  I agree with the reviewers who suggest Futureland should've been a novel and not a collection of stories.  Word to your mother
