Doomsayers are nothing new.  In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when Jewish populations were growing rapidly in many parts of Europe, anti-semitic politicians and demagogues leaped to the fore and claimed that Jews were a fundamental threat to society.  Jews stole jobs, polluted and corrupted society, destroyed culture, and were responsible for crime.  

I see a similar fear now re-occuring, except now it is for Muslims.  Muslims, as a fairly conspicuous minority, make easy targets for Europeans to blame their complex problems.  However, while Europe does face some real difficulties in economic, demographic and social terms (including with integrating minorities), the notion of a collapse of Europe into something like Afghanistan or Iran or Pakistan or Saudi Arabia is nonsense.

While Islamic radicalism and terrorism are real and dangerous threats (as the recent MI5 report indicates), terrorists and terrorist threats come from only a small fraction of the Muslim population.  Problems with economic integration stem not just from religion but also from issues related to racial discrimination as well as things like inflexible labour laws, which the French have refused to reform.  When it comes to problems like demographic decline, or economic stagnation, the Europeans have only themselves to blame, and need to adopt a more entrepenurial spirit.  They also need to recognise the need to allow people to openly practice religious faith, lest dangerous pseudo-ideaologies fill the void.  

However Muslims only form around 10% of the population in France and 5% of less in the UK.  The fear of being 'bred out' is an illusion, and in any case many non-Muslim migrants are arriving in Europe each year from places like Romania and Poland.  Will the UK become Polish and Romanian in two or three decades?  Free borders are important in a globalised world, and history has generally shown isolationism and protectionism do not work to build rule of law, democracy, and prosperity.  

Demonising Muslims and other minorities is a dangerous way of trying to get out of dealing with complex issues, which Europe has to do if it wants to compete with India and China and the US.  Muslims need to be seen as assets rather than threats to society, and while Muslim community leaders have an obligation to stamp out terrorism and radicalism and ensure proper integration, Europeans have an obligation not to repeat the ugly past in their treatment of minorities
