There is no doubt in my mind that Josh Harris is a good person, who sincerely wants to help people, particularly young Christian women, who are especially affected by the vicissitudes of the modern dating scene. However, he doesn't seem to offer much honesty about why this book has been so popular.  Either he's guilelessly uninformed or deliberately avoidant: inexcusable in either case, considering how influential this book has become. 

Is it because it offers the best possible advice on how to navigate the most clear and direct path from singleness to marriage?  No.  For the vast majority of singles, the approach described in this book will be too rigid and contrived to be workable.  Few couples have actually gotten together this way.

The real reason why this book, with its overwhelmingly female readership, has sold so well comes down to one main reason: there is a SEVERE SHORTAGE OF SINGLE CHRISTIAN MEN, as documented in CampuslifeCollegeGuide.com male/female ratios, and the Barna Research group website which estimates the shortfall to be in the MILLIONS.  Christianity Today recently identified the gender imbalance as being the issue that "rises to the top" for Christian singles.

Because Christians are encouraged to look at circumstances as springing from "God's plan" for their lives, many of the surplus women faithfully avoid doing the math, but certainly feel the lack of male attention.  Unfortunately, this often gets boiled down to some kind of "passive Christian guy thing", but it probably has more to do with the complacency that accompanies the abundance of women: which is the defining masculine climate wherever there is a man shortage, whether it's New York City, Post-war Russia or your local mega-church.  It's not so much a lack of male leadership, but a lack of males.

And so the idea of courtship appeals to the romantic longings of single Christian women frustrated by what they perceive to be a lack of initiative taken by single Christian men, who they greatly outnumber.  Since reading Christian books about relationships can be as titilating as any romance novel, many of these women will pour over every detail looking for the one piece of advice, the one thing they can change about themselves that will make a difference.  Which means they stay on the spiritual self-improvement treadmill, fuelling a Christian singleness industry with its own slogan "The Gift of Singleness" that refuses to tell them the truth about the Christian man shortage that is the greatest cause of their prolonged singleness!  Of course, their lack of contentment (an innate response that tells you that things don't add up) is something they are told to repent, ironically by pundits who themselves will not repent of how they profit from this symbiotic relationship.  But as long as these women can be convinced that their discontent is caused not by unnaturally protracted singleness that's the result of the Christian man shortage but their by own spiritual failings, there'll always be a market for Christian self-help books like this one.  Pure genius!

What's more, there are "unintended consequences" that can go along with Harris' model for "courtship" that he doesn't really address:

1) Because all masculine initiative taking must be based on a guy's intention to marry the woman, it makes asking a woman to do anything a BIG DEAL to him. This can have several sub-consequences: 
(a) It creates a lot of anxiety for guys in terms of their decision-making and rejection-risk (getting turned down for a date is bad enough, but imagine having your "potential marriage proposal" crash and burn!) (b) It fosters prolonged crushes, as stakes get so high with the guy investing all kinds of time and energy in figuring out that this is "the one", he might not ever do it (c) Ironically, it can boost up the guy's expectations in terms of a woman's looks. Because the guy has to have everything worked out in their heads (that yes, this is the kind of woman I want to marry) lot of guys end up not bothering to spend time with girls who don't LOOK like whatever their "wife prototype" might be. Guys who date and don't make a big deal of "a date" are more likely to ask out women they never thought of marrying and possibly end up getting married anyways (In "How to Get a Date Worth Keeping", Henry Cloud explains how couples will admit that their spouses weren't really "their type" when they first met). 
2) It keeps people from the humbling reality check that dating provides. Serial dating (as practiced in Latin American countries, where a guy will ask out tons of women, get turned down by most of them until he has a "short-list") teaches you where you stand with the opposite sex. You ask your way down your "ladder of options" until you find your equal (likewise for women, in terms of dealing with the facts about who's asking and who's not). With courtship, a man or woman can nurse an untested prototype of what they want in their heads for years. The idea that it's better not to have any previous flames to compare them to is FALSE. You're better off being compared to their last girlfriend/boyfriend (a real human being with chunky thighs and all) than with the evangelical Angelica Jolie/Brad Pitt that has filled their imaginations since adolescence! 
3) It reduces interactive opportunities that promote the acquisition of social skills needed in a romantic context with the opposite sex. It reinforces the pattern of psycho-social-sexual immaturity you commonly see in Christian singles circles. 
4) It's unfair to the woman to have some guy spring a potential marriage proposal (which is essentially what courtship is) on her without any prior notice that the guy (who's had a head start on working out his feelings) is romantically interested. Most Christian women seem to need some time to progressively get used to the idea of having a date with most of the guys who would realistically ask them, let alone entertain the thought of marriage. 
5) It also heightens the significance of anything the men do when interacting with the women in their circle, who inevitably end up reading too much into their behavior and expecting too much whenever any nuance of interest gets expressed by a someone they like. Kind of like, "he's a nice, sincere, Christian guy and he wouldn't be spending this kind of time with me if he didn't think of me as marriage material, right?"...not always so. 

If we are to stand back and take a look at it, the whole courtship redux really hasn't gotten off the ground: it works for too few people at this time. Maybe the world has changed too much, or perhaps there are other issues today's Christian singles face in the mating game that need to be dealt with first: such as the confusion about "the gift of singleness" and the shortage of men. I would recommend Debbie Maken's Getting Serious about Getting Married: Rethinking the Gift of Singleness for an alternative view of courtship that embraces the ordinariness and universality of marriage, instead of this moldy oldy.
