This is the first book that I've ever given two stars...I just couldn't give it more than that. I got this book as a freebie from a book club and I sorely wish I'd gone with something else for my free book.

To start off with...the 'romance' is started instantly. Charlie (what kind of romantic hero name is Charlie? haha) doesn't want love to take control of him like all his friends and peers so he insteads chooses a wife for a conventional marriage. Now that plot line flat is something I usually read and enjoy, thus the reason why I got it. But there is no sizzle, no surprises. He lays out his offer and starts courting her right from the get go and she shows no resistance...they meet every night for long makeout sessions (the imagery in these scenes was very poetic and beautiful but holy crap two pages describing a kiss is TOO much!) and for several chapters..this is all they did. They'd meet at a party or lunch or something and that night they'd sneak away and fondle each other. Finally they sleep together and after that it seemed like they were doing it every other page. 

The angst of the story comes from where Charlie doesn't want love to control him and so he ignores her during the day, just breaking her heart, but at night in the bedroom he just uses her body relentlessly and she ALLOWS it. She seemed kind of weak in the fact that she didn't stand up for herself against Charlie until he storms in pissed off that she went to someone else with her problems instead of him. 

The 'action' so to speak of the book seemed like it ruled too much of the story. I skipped dozens and dozens of pages just because it was uniteresting. It was like I was reading one of my Ethic's essays where the words seem to run together in one big run on sentence. The LAST PAGE I skimmed just to end it. 

Usually with a novel as such...I like to go back and reread certain parts after I'm done with it, but this novel...nothing remarkable happened that makes me want to go through it again. 

If you really want to read this novel, goto the library or wait for it to come out in hardback. Overall, you can find something else worth your time in the bargain bin
