This book never came together for me.  Right up to the end I was waiting and waiting for everything to come into focus, but it never did.  I never really saw the point the author was trying to make and thus it was a lot of semi-interesting stuff that happened.

The story is about Jack and Connor Reed, whose parents are both dead.  When the story begins, Connor is 17 and being raised by Jack, a junior member of his father's old law firm in Cleveland.  The book then covers the next 23 years of their lives as they marry and divorce and have kids and so forth.  Connor gets Hodgkin's disease but survives while Jack moves to Chicago to reconcile and marry (then divorce, then possibly remarry) his long-time fiancee Mona.  Jack reluctantly has one son with Mona while Connor knocks up his girlfriend Laine and marries her and then divorces her, then possibly will remarry her.

A lot of the story--not just when Connor gets Hodgkin's--has the characters getting sick.  Connor has a migraine.  Laine cuts her hand.  Mona gets mugged and hurts her wrist.  Jack and Connor get food-poisoned on a trip from Cleveland to Massachusetts.  Later Jack gets food-poisoned with his new girlfriend Kathy.  Even Connor's dog gets sick!  The first few times this is fine, but after a while it's repetitive.

Then of course we have Jack and Mona who break up and get together more than Ross and Rachel on "Friends."  This gave the story a soapy edge I doubt the author intended, although she's worked for the National Enquirer, so maybe that's exactly what she meant to do.  Do people really keep breaking up and getting together anywhere other than TV?  And of course Connor and Laine have the same problem to a lesser extent.  Maybe the author wanted us to believe in the bond of family or love or whatever, but as a good 50% of the population (or more) can tell you, most people who break up do not get back together--then break up, then get together, ad nauseum.

But I think the most annoying part of the book is that because it covers 23 years in 260 pages, it's always leaping around.  At the start of every chapter is that disorienting moment when as the reader you're trying to determine when this is taking place, how much time has passed, and what's changed between chapters.  So really you're spending a good quarter of the time reading wondering what the heck is going on.  Not good.

Writing-wise, I'm never a big fan of present tense.  There also seemed like a few grammatical errors and spelling errors the editor did not catch.  There was also at least one factual error as well.  The 1988 movie with Tom Cruise and Dustin Hoffman is "Rain Man" not "Rainman"--a simple check on IMDB could have caught that.  Such trivial errors may seem unimportant, but it erodes my confidence in the author.  Not to mention it's just plain sloppy.

Overall I breezed through this book and it wasn't completely awful, but there are a lot of better books out there.  Still, this is probably a good lightweight read for the plane or beach.

That is all
