I don't normally write these reviews, but I feel a responsibility to other readers to warn them away from this book.  If you don't want to know any details about the book, you have the option of not reading this review, but, if you want to know what you're letting yourself in for, read on.  If you are a horse lover, I srongly advise against reading The Horse Whisperer.  If you want a romantic love story, you should also look elsewhere.  If you want insight into dealing with a trauma, so sorry, no luck here.  The book opens with a graphic description of a violent accident involving a girl and her horse, which results in death.  Though I found these scenes truly disturbing, I hoped the trip taken by the girl and her mother to find an expert who could help to heal the girl and her horse would prove redeeming somehow.  Instead, the experience was muddled and pointless.  The few instances involving the "whisperer" attempting to heal the horse from its trauma struck me as something that would further traumatize the poor animal.  Nothing he does ever seems to break through and cause the horse any improvement.  Additionally, the mother appears to have no purpose in the story except wandering aimlessly around the farm, occasionally cheating on her husband with this man, and becoming pregnant with his child.  The book's focus then turns almost completely to this ill-advised affair which doesn't really have any chemistry to it.  The man and the mother don't seem that attracted to each other, and evidently only end up together because the plot required it of them.  During all this, the girl's psychological problems resulting from the accident are basically ignored.  She pretty much drops out of sight until the very close of the book when she is taken by the horse whisperer to witness another graphically brutal occurrence, which ends in another horrific death.  Apparently, what we are to glean from this book is that, if you are a woman who can't have children with your husband, getting knocked up by another man will save your marriage.  If you are a young girl who happens to witness a violent death, nothing will cure you except witnessing another violent death.  If you're a horse, you can just figure things out for yourself.  The fact that everyone seems blissfully happy after all this absurdity, just feels as though the author got bored with what he was writing and figured he had to wrap it up with a Hollywood ending somehow so he could get it off to the publisher quickly.  In the end, I see no reason to waste your time with this book.  I wish I could get back the hours of my life I spent on it.     
