This book reveals the ideology behind new American unilateralism and the philosphy that underpins the Bush doctrine;  "Might is right" or machtpolitik.

Kagan's (sometimes sneering) analysis of the European world view is a simplistic one.  He contends that Europe favours diplomacy and international channels before military action not because that might be a altogether preferable way of conducting diplomacy, but rather because Europe is militarily weak.  Kagan assures us that, if the EU had the muscle of the USA, it would be as quick to dismiss internationalism and embrace a more militaristic and unilateralist foriegn policy, just like the USA does today.  

In otherwords, European objections to the Iraq invasion were due, not over concern at the motivation for it and the shoddiness (now laid bare for all) of the intelligence that supported it, but simply that the EU doesn't have the military might to conduct such operations.

The benefit of hindsight illustrates how preposterous and, well, wrong, this idea is.  This is the central and oft repeated tenet of the book.

It would seem to me that the target audience for this book seems very much to be readers who already agree with current US policy.  The arguments are facile, hollow and repitious.  I cannot imagine it convincing anyone, not already of Kagan's persuasion.

Kagan refers to "Saddam Hussein and his weapons of mass destruction" as a pretext for military action with the same assured certainty with which he talks about how the EU is living in a fantasy paradise secured by American power.  

Looking to the future he sees only decline for the EU as a power and continued dominance for the USA.  It is a measure of how flimsy some of the arguments in this book are that he fails at this point to even mention the gargantuan and record-smashing  defecits the USA is currently running as the Military Industrial complex gorges itself once again on taxpayer money.

It's a very short book, but gave me a better understanding of the dangerous views that are shaping the policies of the current administration
