I've heard that so many people love this book by Rob Bell - he's the pastor at a new church called Mars Hill in Grand Rapids, MI and part of the emerging church movement that is seeking to reenergize Christianity with passion and authenticity.  I had a few issues with the book, but for the most part my response is that Bell (and apparently others in this movement) really feels like he's discovered authentic Christianity for the first time since the early church and that not only shocks me, but saddens me at the same time.  I'm glad there are Rob Bells out there right now - seeking to live in a manner worthy of their calling by serving the needs of others and I know that his book is helping to shake the cobwebs off of many younger followers of Christ.  But overall, the book is really underwhelming and his thoughts and ideas are nothing new.  There are hundreds of outstanding churches, many that I personally have been associated with over the years, which teach solid doctrine and minister to the needs of those outside the church walls at the same time.  I would agree with Bell that there needs to be more done in the name of Christ to better our communities and I hope that this aspect of his message is received with open arms from all.

The primary issue I had with Velvet Elvis is the picture that Bell paints regarding the interaction of Christianity and the culture.  I get the idea that Bell envisions his winsome and inviting approach is far more effective (and Biblical) than a combative stance.  However, there are times that Christians must (and have) stood firm in the face of opposition.  The church is an active participant in the affairs of mankind; and while there have been numerous individuals that have carried the banner of Christ inappropriately, there are countless examples of Christians standing against the cultural crisis of their day to defend the defenseless and have fought for justice and liberty on the behalf of others.  Whether it be Athanasius or Luther, Wilberforce or Machen, the list of godly men and women that have been used by God to defend the gospel is as long as the list of those who have enjoyed the freedoms to share the gospel in large part due to the work of others obtaining and protecting the freedom to do so.

Overall, I thought much of what Rob Bell had to say was fine - I like his focus on simplicity and authenticity.  But, I wouldn't personally recommend the book to anyone - there are much better books to read that give this same message in a more powerful and profound manner - William Law's incredible book A Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life comes to mind as one such example and even John Bunyan's classic Pilgrim's Progress would be a much better read to address these issues for a Christian today than Bell's Velvet Elvis.
