This novel could have been so much better, and it's hard to forget that when reading.  There's no question that the authors know the world they're satirizing inside and out, and at first it's fascinating to have an entree into the world of High Society.  But that fascination isn't enough to carry a whole book (especially when other books take on the same world:  The Nanny Diaries and Bergdorf Blondes).

Melanie Korn is a sweet bubble-headed blonde who's way out of her league.  But unlike say the heroine of Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, another book about a social-climbing gal, she lacks the humor and irreverance to make her vulgarity really likable.  The shifting points of view and multiple narrative threads don't help-- there's a really nasty sub-plot about a neighbor who wants to kill his Latina mistress.  The book wants us to sympathize only with him as she's portrayed as a terrifying shrew, but the snobbery is ingrained in the narrative throughout.  

Then, once Melanie has her dreams dashed, I kept waiting to see her somehow triumph anyway and make it to the Top via a surprising strategy.  Instead the moral of the story is there's more to Manhattan than  just a few blocks, that people live on the West Side, that love and marriage and children are Good.  Well, duh.  The last thirty pages of the book were a homily to the joys of the Real World-- it's well meant but terribly condescending.  Where do they think their readers live?

The two mean gossips who narrate some of the book are tiresome, and never get the comeuppance they really deserve.

I gave this two stars because it's such a missed opportunity.  With better editing and direction this could have been a sort of Jane Austen type book for our times.  Instead, it's just a minor example of gossip lit.

The prose is fair-- better than The Devil Wears Prada but nowhere near the humor and elegance of The Nanny Diaries.

It's a quick read, but there are better quick reads out there.  On the plus side, the book does leave you feeling grateful the world of High Society is so very irrelevant.  Ah, you say as you shut it, thank goodness I am middle class
