A Tour de Failure by Noam "the Chump" Chomsky on so many levels -- historical, logical, legal, moral.  Instead of trying to break the failures out by category, why don't we just get right down to it and list them in the order they appear.  NOTE: this is a radically abbreviated list.

*  The three characteristics of a failed state supposedly are (1) inability to protect its citizens from violence, (2) feeling to be beyond the reach of international law and (3) lack of true democracy (pp 1-2, 109).  That's an extremely unusual definition of "failed state."  Besides going against the traditional definition of a state as territorial integrity and monopoly of violence (Weber, "Politics As a Vocation"), it leads to absurd results, for example, under this classification the soon-to-be superpower China would be classified as a failed state.  So right off the bat Chumpsky's whole premise falls apart.  One could also point to immigration flows and appropriately ask: if the U.S. is such a failed state, why do so many people want to go there?  Are the same number of people flocking to Somalia?

*  The U.S. is "hegemonic" and the world's "dominant power" (pp 3, 116).  I could make a detailed argument the U.S. is not, but can demonstrate Chumpsky's false statement more simply: if what Chumpsky says is true, then how come we can't get the world to do what we want?

*  The doctrine of preemption a.k.a. "anticipatory self-defense" has "unstated bounds" (p 3).  False.  The bounds were described in Bush 43's 2003 State of the Union speech: "If this threat is permitted to fully and suddenly emerge, all actions, all words, and all recriminations would come too late."  In other words, preemption is a valid form of self-defense after a threat has actually been identified but before it is imminent.

*  Why does Chumpsky believe a bedrock moral is "we must apply to ourselves the same standards we do to others" (pp 3, 81)?  Who is he to tell anyone what a state's morality is or should be, and besides, isn't he just unconsciously parroting the Christians' Golden Rule (p 4)?

*  Chumpsky confuses Christian charity with government coercion.  Increasing government-sponsored foreign aid is not a different manifestation of Christian charity, as Chumpsky implies by juxtaposition of the two (p 4).  Foreign aid comes from government revenues, which arise from taxes, which people pay at the implied point of a gun.  Taxes are not freewill gifts.  C.f. 1 Kings 12:4-11 and Mark 12:42-44.

*  Chumpsky is one of those "who believe that the International Court of Justice" had standing to pass judgment on the U.S.' actions in Nicaragua.  Yes, Mr. Chumpsky, it is a question of your belief -- your faith -- isn't it?  What is it with you and Nicaragua, anyway?

*  The refusal of the U.S. to extradite Luis Posada (a Cuban purported by Castro to have bombed an airliner in the 1970s) to Venezuela was "in violation of a U.S.-Venezuelan extradition treaty" (pp 5-6).  That may be true as far as it goes, but what Chumpsky doesn't tell you is that the extradition was refused because to have released Posada to the tender mercies of the Venezuelan police would have violated the Convention Against Torture, known affectionately by those in the biz as the "CAT."  Of course, Chumpsky's Flavor-Aid crew probably argues that the U.S. only obeys the CAT when it's convenient, but if the U.S. *had* sent Posada to Venezuela, don't you think they would have argued that the CAT should have controlled and therefore the U.S. violated the CAT?

Further note: Mr. Posada was not freed by the U.S. as Chumpsky idiotically implies (p 35).  He's currently in a detention center in Texas.

*  Chumpsky approvingly quotes Robert McNamara saying that U.S. nuclear policy is "illegal" and "immoral" (pp 8-9).  In response, first note who Chumpsky has to turn to to buttress his morality.  Robert McNamara?  The architect of perhaps a million lost Vietnamese lives and 58,000 of our own?  That's some moral compass.  But enough ad hominem.  I have a two word response for McNamara's/Chumpsky's conclusions: says who?  Who says it's immoral?  Who says it's illegal?  And why?  We know your conclusions Chumpsky -- now tell us how you got there.

*  "China has led efforts...to preserve outer space for peaceful purposes" (p 11).  Like shooting lasers at satellites ("China Jamming Test Sparks U.S. Satellite Concerns," USA Today, Oct. 5, 2006)?  What a wonderful judge of national character Chumpsky is.

*  Throughout the book Chumpsky offers up a conclusion followed by a quote that seems to support the conclusion but doesn't.  For example, he writes: "[t]he Bush Administration...has blurred the line between conventional and nuclear weapons" (p 11) then follows this with a quote from an analyst who states there is a now-heightened risk of use of nuclear weapons, when the quote doesn't actually say Bush has in fact blurred any line, let alone how it was blurred.  Nice rhetoric and sleight of hand, but hardly convincing to anyone other than Chumpsky's Flavor-Aid crew.

*  Chumpsky also consistently confuses correlation with causality.  For example: the "hundreds of US bases placed all over the world" are to "ensure global domination" (p 11).  First off, I point out again, if the U.S. is so dominant, how come the world's not doing what it wants?  Second, in terms of logic, if B exists only if A exists, the mere existence of A does not necessarily imply B.  In this context, if U.S. global domination existed, admittedly one would probably need hundreds of bases to ensure such domination.  However, the mere existence of these bases does not prove the U.S. is ensuring its domination, any more than the existence of hundreds of U.S. consulates "proves" the U.S. is dominant.  The bases may be used for in extremis defense or for passive intelligence gathering, or for many other non-"domination" purposes.

*  Chumpsky also consistently engages in ad hoc ergo propter hoc, the fallacy of assuming A caused B because A came before B.  He claims, for example, that the April 2004 murders of the contractors in Fallujah was caused by Israel's assassination of Sheikh Yassin the month before (p 23).  There is absolutely no evidence for that (and Chumpsky cites no source to back up his wild claim), other than the fact the contractors were killed after the sheikh.

*  As you could imagine, Chumpsky also consistently engages in slanting, the logical fallacy of exaggerating evidence for one's own side of an argument while downplaying or ignoring contrary evidence.  Case in point: describing how America's war on Islamofascism has stirred up terrorists (pp 18-23) without detailing any evidence that such a result, while perhaps true, may be justified by U.S. long-term security objectives.

*  Bush said that WMDs were the "single question" to justify invading Iraq (pp 24, 130, 132).  That's false.  The "single question" Bush referred to in his pre-war press conference regards adherence to Resolution 1441, not WMDs specifically.  Chumpsky's use of that quote is a distortion at best, a lie at worst.  Besides relinquishing the WMDs themselves, Resolution 1441 required a certain level of disclosure that even Chumpsky's Flavor-Aid crew would agree it did not meet.

*  "The Reagan administration also cheerfully tolerated Pakistan's slide toward radical Islamist extremism..." (p 16)  Wait a second.  Isn't it reasonable to infer from the above quote that Chumpsky would prefer that the U.S. government had leaned on Pakistan to stop the slide towards extremism?  Isn't that the kind of meddling that Chumpsky supposedly abhors?  Chumpsky accuses the U.S. of being hegemonic (p 3), then accuses the U.S. of not acting hegemonic.

*  "[N]o traces were found" of WMDs in Iraq (p 28).  Oh?  How about 500 chemical weapons as of early 2006, according to the National Ground Intelligence Center, the successor to the Iraq Survey Group.  Now, Chumpsky could argue that the weapons were old or degraded, but he sure can't argue "no traces" of them were found.

*  "Tax cuts for the rich rank far higher as a priority than protection of the population from terror" (p 32).  Assuming that statement is completely true, can we not also say then that funding for PBS, NPR and NEH likewise rank far higher as a priority than protection of the population from terror?  Is Chumpsky saying we should defund those institutions in favor of protecting ourselves?  Chumpsky, you got my vote!

*  Chumpsky also systematically places endnote references in a mendacious way.  For example, he refers to an article by Michael Lind regarding the U.N. definition of terrorism (p 36) then goes on to state that the U.S. has exempted itself from the most elementary of moral principles, the principle of universality.  After this he provides an endnote reference to the Lind article, creating the illusion that Lind discusses both the definition of terrorism and U.S. exemption from the principle of universality.  But the actual Lind article only discusses the definition of terrorism, and says nothing about universality.  So Chumpsky gets away with appearing to have sourced a statement when in fact he's done nothing of the kind.

*  The Geneva Conventions were "expanded through a number of protocols, most notably in 1949 and 1977" (p 39).  Oh?  That's news to me.  The 1977 protocols, a case study in left wing liberationist idiocy, were never ratified.  And exactly why does Chumpsky seem to think they're now part of an "international norm"?

*  The German attack on Norway was "preemptive" (p 40).  Oh please.  Could Chumpsky possibly be more obvious -- and stupid?

*  Alberto Gonzales thought certain provisions of the Geneva Conventions were "quaint" and "obsolete" (p 40).  That's technically true, but what Chumpsky doesn't care to tell you is that the provisions Gonzales cited as examples were requirements to provide advances of monthly pay, athletic uniforms, and scientific instruments.  See Gonzalez memo of Jan. 25, 2002.  I'll leave it to you to decide whether the requirement to give Khalid Sheikh Mohammed his microscope back is a quaint notion or not.

*  The Green Line is "the international border recognized by the entire world, with the exception of Israel and the United States" (pp 45-46).  Rejoice everyone!  The Muslim states finally recognize Israel!  Peace is at hand!

*  More Chumpsky morality: "[u]nless people are at least given the opportunity to overthrow a tyrannical regime, no outside power has the right to carry out the task..." (pp 57-58).  So under Chumpsky's morals the Allies had no right to overthrow the Vichy regime because the Vichy had crushed internal dissent?  What kind of moronic morality is this?

*  $20 billion in the oil-for-food scam "may have been pocketed by the Iraqis" (p 58).  Well, one Iraqi at least.  What delightful vagueness from America's top linguist.

*  Chumpsky boo-hoos over the U.S. reservation to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations as it relates to Mexican murderers in the U.S. (p 67).  Tell you what, Chumpsky.  Let the Mexicans start permitting extraditions of murderers back to the U.S. as they are required to do under the U.S.-Mexican extradition treaty, then we'll talk about how the U.S. isn't honoring the Vienna Convention vis a vis Mexico.

*  "India's determination to develop a nuclear deterrent was `hardened' by the Persian Gulf War of 1991 and the bombing of Serbia in 1999" (p 75).  India exploded its bomb in 1998, nearly a year before Serbia was bombed.  What a moronic, obvious mistake.

*  The Bush administration has the "worst record" on nuclear arms reductions (pp 75-76), even though it is the administration that has entered into a treaty to eliminate more of them -- two-thirds of existing stockpiles -- than any other administration in history.

*  The U.S. is to blame for the East Timor invasion and genocide (p 87) and the Darfur genocide (p 230).  Question for Chumpsky: is there anything bad that's happened in the last 60 years where the U.S. *isn't* to blame?

*  "When an assertion of such obvious importance is adopted with near unanimity, a sensible reaction is to investigate the evidence produced both for and against the thesis" (p 102).  Sensible advice indeed, if only Chumpsky himself would take it.  For example, permeating his book is the notion that "international law" (whatever that is) should trump our security needs and even our constitution.  Question: why?  Who says this should be so?  A bunch of pointy-headed French and German jurists?  Excuse me for stating the obvious, but the French (Dreyfus Affair; Vichy; Algeria) and Germans (Bismarck; Kaiser; Hitler) probably shouldn't be the ones to turn to for instruction on morality and interstate conduct.

*  Chile is "Latin America's oldest...democracy" (p 111).  Stupid mistake.  Columbia is Latin America's oldest democracy.  If you don't believe me, believe Che Guevara, who wrote that in "Motorcycle Diaries."

*  Haiti became "the first free country in the hemisphere in 1804" (p 114).  What was the U.S. in 1783?  Chopped liver?

*  Bush "supported a military coup to overthrow...Hugo Chavez" (p 136).  Says who?  The endnote provided by Chumpsky is a classic example of his misdirection with endnotes, referring to an article in the Miami Herald that does not even discuss the coup.

*  When the U.S. kicked al-Jazeera out of Iraq before the Iraqi elections, it demonstrated that in Iraq "no media can be tolerated that are not under US control" (p 161).  Is the BBC under U.S. control?

*  Chumpsky approvingly cites a middle east scholar who failed to find evidence of Hezbollah terrorism in the decade preceding 2005 (p 168).  Do you think after Hezbollah fired over a thousand rockets into Israeli population centers in August 2006 that the scholar would be able to find the evidence now?

*  A glaring absence in all of Chumpsky's Israel-bashing (pp 166-204) is any reference to 1948.  Care to guess why?  It wouldn't have to do anything with the fact that the Israeli state had been blessed by Chumpsky's beloved U.N. would it?  Does the U.N. confer legitimacy in Chumpsky's world or not?

*  "A terrorist wishing to enter Israel will find a way to do so..." (p 192).  How is it then that the suicide bombing have been reduced by 90% since the security barrier was established?

*  Chumpsky worries about "Christian fascism" along Nazi lines in the U.S. (p 224).  Chumpsky, square that with the U.S.' unwavering support for Israel, as you note yourself in pp 166-204.  Moron.

*  Israel's bombing of Iraq's nuclear reactor at Osirak "appears to have initiated Saddam's nuclear weapons program" (p 253).  Am I missing something?  If you've got a nuclear reactor to produce plutonium, doesn't that mean you've already got a nuclear weapons program?

*  Iran "appears to be largely conforming" with the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (p 254).  Chumpsky, can I interest you in a bridge I have for sale?
