It's rather amazing how many five star "reviewers" have so much of the same bad information to impart about John Kerry, but so little to say about the substance of this book. 

Rather than recycle chatroom effluvia, I will actually review the book: 

Poorly researched, poorly written. Nasty, vindictive, and dishonest from start to finish. 

For example, in describing his 1971 debate with Kerry on the Dick Cavett show, John O'Neill not only misrepresents what Kerry and Cavett said, and the audience's response, he actually misquotes HIMSELF. As the transcript (and video) of the debate is posted at O'Neill's own website, how hard would it have been to check for basic accuracy? 

And why tell such easily proven lies, like claiming Kerry was booed during the debate, when the video clearly shows that he wasn't? 

If you watch, you will also see O'Neill repeat a stunning lie about his own military service - his claim to have served "almost three years" in Vietnam. He made this claim several times in 1971, both in speeches and in writing. But his records show that he served no more than a total of 15 MONTHS in Vietnam, and that included his time offshore on a minesweeper. (You can see his military records yourself, linked through his profile at Wikipedia.) 

More examples of lies and misrepresentations in the book? How about the part where O'Neill claims that Kerry filmed interviews of himself while in Vietnam - four years before those cameras had sound capability. 

In a more egregious example, O'Neill posits, in Chapter 5 of UFC, that George Elliott wrote a Silver Star citation that did not reflect what happened that day. He is not honest enough to use the actual citation written by Elliott, but instead uses a later, edited version and then quotes things - like "numerically superior force" - that Elliott NEVER WROTE. The original citation written by Elliott PRECISELY reflects what happened that day - things he claims he was never told - as do the after action report and Zumwalt's monthly summary. (All of which can be found at SBVT's own archives.) 

In this connection, O'Neill claims that Elliott had no idea there were troops on the boats that day (even though he was division commander) and that they conducted the first sweep - although Elliott's citation, the after action report, and the monthly summary SPECIFICALLY state that there were troops on the boats and that the troops conducted the first sweep. He also claims that "[t]here is no indication that Kerry ever reported that the Viet Cong was wounded and fleeing when dispatched" - but Elliott 's citation and the after action report SPECIFICALLY state that Kerry shot a fleeing VC, and the after action report says that the man was wounded. 

In addition, O'Neill claims that Hoffmann and Elliott had been told Kerry had "almost single-handedly" taken out a bunker of VC - except NOTHING OF THE SORT appears in the original citation, the after action report, the monthly summary, or the news release for the incident. In fact, the after action report specifically says that "other units saturated [the] area with fire and beached placing assault parties ashore" while Kerry chased the VC. And of course Elliott made it quite clear in William Rood's Bronze Star citation that he didn't think anyone did anything "almost single-handedly" that day. 

Again, O'Neill writes with regard to the first action, that "most, if not all, of the non-PCF troops received no medals for this action." (No kidding, he actually writes like that.) C'mon John, it is public information that the only American "non-PCF troops" there that day were the three Army advisors and the three UDT guys -  and all were awarded medals, including two Bronze Stars for the Army advisors. 

And consider this. O'Neill sneers that Kerry deserved no more than a commendation medal for his actions that day. That means that none of the half dozen or so Navy officers and crew who earned Bronze Stars - for doing no more than Kerry did - deserved their medals either. No wonder William Rood wrote in disgust, "[T]his is hurting crewmen who are not public figures and who deserved to be honored for what they did. ... While they mean to hurt Kerry, what they're saying impugns others who are not in the public eye." 

By the way, despite O'Neill's repeated claims to Ted Koppel and others, the eyewitnesses to the second sweep - including the only member of SBVT who was actually there - have consistently stated that there was substantial enemy fire from multiple VC at the scene. Just look inside those books you were waving at the camera, John. Or better yet, ask SBVT member Larry Clayton Lee, who believes that Kerry earned his medal that day, and whose eyewitness account contradicts just about everything you've said on the matter. 

In fact, there is not a single person who was there that day who disputes what happened, or Kerry's medal. Again, as William Rood writes, "It's gotten harder and harder for those of us who were there to listen to accounts we know to be untrue, especially when they come from people who were not there." 

And contrary to O'Neill's claim that the Silver Star was awarded after only two days, "with no review," the record shows it was awarded after six days, and in 1996 Elliott and Lonsdale themselves insisted that all proper review procedures were followed (as did the Navy inspector general, in 2004). 

Not such great research, Johnny boy. 

Though maybe we should blame some of this on Jerry Corsi. When Corsi's bigotry was revealed in some of his freeper postings, O'Neill promptly claimed that Corsi was not really the coauthor, but that he acted "simply as an editor." Now that's interesting, because aside from the fact that the narrative voice sometimes bounces between first person and third person in the same sentence, and that Corsi continues to brag about coauthoring the book, good parts of Chapters 6 through 9 (at least) are virtually lifted from his screeds at anti-Kerry sites. 

Just a little short in the truth department, are we John? 

While we're at it, let's ask Mr. Corsi why he REMOVED the picture of Robert McNamara's 1995 meeting with Gen. Giap, which hangs near Kerry's picture in the War Remnants Museum, from his webpage "documenting" the existence of the Kerry picture. 

You see, John and Jerry show their readers pictures of other walls in the room from every possible angle (and even throw in a picture of Jane Fonda from a building across town), but conveniently "forget" to show you the most important wall of all...the wall upon which Kerry's picture is displayed. Hmmm, is it because Kerry's picture was displayed along with those of other visiting dignitaries such as McNamara, Warren Christopher, and yes, even ELMO ZUMWALT? New York Sun reporter Josh Gerstein says so ... run a browser search for his August 2004 article exposing this particular bit of sleaze. 

Of course it is well known how many other claims in this book have been thoroughly debunked by overwhelming eyewitness testimony, Navy investigators, Navy documents, and in fact some of the accusers' own documents. (Tom Wright didn't patrol with Kerry after he "complained" about him? Not true, according to the command history. George Bates is "haunted" by the slaughter of village livestock? His own crewman claims responsibility for that.  William Franke's "recollections" of Kerry?  He wasn't there at the time. And O'Neill might want to get someone a little more competent to analyze those designator numbers on the March 13 spot report.) 

For more point by point rebuttals of the lies contained in this book, go to Eric Rasmussen's most excellent online review, "Truth and Unfit for Command." 

John O'Neill has repeatedly lied about his own service in Vietnam. In addition, he has been threatened with court sanctions for his venomous personal style, and passed over for a judgeship. Coming from the man who seconded Richard Nixon's nomination at the '72 convention, why is none of this surprising
