Well I have tried to write a review for this book three times now and I write and then it gets posted and taken off - people don;t wanna har what i have to say becasue they think it is not good for sales - but I read the book - I was given it as a gift - i couldn;t afford to throw good money away on a book like this but some one else did and gave it to me.  What I have said was that this book made me angry.  I haev had hard times - been in rehab, in half-way houses, tried to clean up my life so many tiems and fallen back into unhealty habits - i was abused by almost eveyone I ever met - from friedns and neighbors to fmaily and ministers.  I was rteated like nothing and I believed it of myself - i got hooked on okycontin and then nethdone- the stuff that killed anna  nicole - but I found my way out.  i like to paint and to draw and so a friedn  - my sponsor - gacve me this book.  Now I don;t know about you, but I am a working woman - currently holding down three jobs just tryng to make the ends meet - and I don;t have time to take walks and go havea  nice cup of tea at the salon or listen to the birds hum.  i don;t have time to spend hours filling out surveys about what holds me back - life holds me back - and my jobs and my addictions- but I still manage to daw and paint and sell them for a little profit.  This book is for people who think they want to be an artist - but woudl rather fill out forms and write in a journal and complain abot why they can;t create nothin.  I paint or draw instead of picking up a pipe or knocking myself out with percoset and drowning in my tub.  If i had unlimited time and resources I woudl use this book but if I was a normal person I don;t think you will have any time.  i hope this sees the light of day - i have eben held down too long and i won;t take it anymore.  And maybe it si just me but just casue she had a bad mariage to a famous hollywood director she thinks she has been thorugh it - how about a marriage to a man who tried to set you on fire casue he was sky high on windowpane
