This is a book that attacks America, the war on terror, 
the struggle to bring freedom to Iraq and our troops 
who serve in Iraq.  As the greatest civilization in the world,
America has the right and duty to spread freedom to the rest
of the world.  We must do so not only because it is right, but
because the lack of freedom is what creates terrorism.  America
can ultimately not be safe in a half-free world.

The book says America is an empire.  WRONG!  America is FREEDOM!
America saved the world from communism during the cold war and
has served for 200+ years as THE example to the rest of the world
in how to build freedom.

The writer brings moral relativism into the book.  Like most 
liberals, he can't tell right from wrong anymore.  He tries to
tell us that what might be right for us might not be right for
arabs.  NONSENSE!  There is one standard for right and wrong
in the world.  There are good people in the world and bad 
people.  There is nothing else.  Saddam was an evil dictator
and the world and iraq is much better off to be rid of him.  

Liberals like this guy were ready to surrender the country on
september 12!  Thank God we had a president who didn't listen
to fools like this.  

As brave men like David Horowitz have pointed out in their 
books, there is a liberal elite in our country who hates us
and will make an alliance with anyone, including Islamic 
terrorists, to destroy our country.  They refuse to see the
basic immorality of Islam.  They refuse to see that life itself
is a moral battle between good and evil where only one can win.

There is no peace.  Peace is a false liberal idea spread through
liberal intellectuals.  The idea of peace is that there is no
evil in the world and that all wars are just misunderstandings.  
But as the British proved at Munich and Roosevelt proved
at Yalta, compromise with evil only means the destruction of 
good.

This fellow Merry doesn't understand the war on terror at all.
As our president has told the country many times, we can either
fight the war on the frontlines in Iraq or we can fight it in
our own streets and cities.  Iraq is the central front in the
war on terror for a very good reason.  If we can show the 
countries of the world oppressed by dictators and islam the
rewards of freedom, they will turn their backs on terrorism
in about half a second.

Contrary to this book, we are making progress in Iraq.  Iraq
has made more progress under american guidance than it has
in centuries.  The people there have freedom and are stepping
up to defend themselves.  America just has to be patient and
understand that people whose minds have been oppressed by 
an evil like Saddam can't learn freedom overnight.  The army
is being trained.  They had an election and soon they will have
a constitution which gives them freedom.

Are things perfect?  No.  But they never are.  But we can't 
second-guess our leaders or are troops.  We must give them
a free hand to deal with the situation as they see best.  

This book is a blueprint of an American defeat in the war on
terror.  It refuses to accept our morality and the evil of
our enemy.  It mocks the power of freedom to change the world
and it refuses to accept the reality that our civilization is
in a war with an enemy civilization.  Only one civilization can
survive.  For the sake of the world, it must be ours!

Our leaders in washington should be investigating this person
who wrote this book, the company who published it and where
the money to publish it came from. 
