I started reading "Mona Lisa Awakening" by Sunny, ready to dive into another "not so normal" erotic/romance book. About a quarter into it I had to pause for a moment, had I read this before? I have been known to reserve the same book twice from the library, then begin to read it only to realize my mistake, so I checked my "already read" list, and nope, so why was it so familiar? A woman, young and beautiful, suddenly finds herself to be royal blood thrust into an unusual "world within a world", she is a queen by birth and she has unusual powers that are stronger than any of her kind The "children of the moon" the "Monere" who came to earth 4000 years ago and are hiding amongst us, our vampire/werewolf legends heck maybe even our obsession with reality TV might have come from them. This Mona Lisa, whose own mother gave her up because she was a Halfling, must now prove herself among her peers who so happen to hate her tainted blood. She gets to pick out strong, powerful, virile men to accompany her, protect her and have lots and lots of sex with her. Other jealous queens try to kill her, she finds out she has a brother, demons kidnap her and try to rape her, and throughout she learns to control her powers of healing, and seeing in the dark and changing into a tiger. When she beds these men, she shares her powers, and heals them. Frankly I found it gross that she is making whoopee with some dude who is a) rotting away from a stomach wound b) burnt horribly and c) torn in half Yuck, Yuck, and double yuck. It was so hard for me to believe that a 21 year old ER Nurse, hadn't ever used a cell phone, or doesn't know how to use a computer!! 

Whatever this book claims, believe me you HAVE read it all before. It's called the "merry gentry" series and it's written by Laurell K. Hamilton. It might not be word for word, but it's darn close. Between the group sex, evil queens, and abnormally large endowed men Laurell Hamilton better call her lawyer quick. Seriously, you can admire another author's work but you should never ever rip them off. I love Stephen King, you don't see me writing a book about a town called "Talems Plot" where some creepy dude moves into town, opens a shop and vampires eventually take over, oh wait not vampires ...blood suckers or even better... vampyres!. 
Sunny isn't a bad writer, its palatable and understandable, but it's a simpler echo of a great series and that's unforgivable. She even gets a beloved American commercial phrase wrong. In quoting Tony the Tiger, she says "that's great" when its "they're great" I know that's nitpicky, but cmon........my final word is don't buy this, get it from the library if you must and compare and contrast on your own, if you have never read Hamilton please read hers first and you will nod your head with compliance to my  (and in reading reviews many many others) comparisons.  
