First, it ought to said that, as poetry in English, this translation of Rimbaud fails utterly. Mason indicates in the introduction that he attempts to walk the line between literal and 'poetic' translation. If by this he means that he neither resorts to the kind of inanity with which Paul Schmidt destroyed Rimbaud for late 20th-century Americans, nor to the faithful but poetically unsatisfying Fowlie edition, then he's telling at least a version of the truth. But who could not, with fluent French and enough time, translate French works faithfully into prose? And yet because he is comparatively a novice writer in English of the analogous sort of poetry to that which Rimbaud wrote in French, the concessions and compromises he must make are just terrible as regards both the literal and technical aspects of the poems. Concerning the early (verse) poems, it becomes quickly clear that the translator has no skill as a versifier. Translating requires a resourcefulness bred of technical experience. I don't know if Mason writes original poems, but if so they must be of a very modern sort, which is to say contemporary (as opposed to Modernist) free verse. Of course few people now have good ears for versification, but to those who do--to those who wish a translation to convey something of the greatness, at least, of the original--the technical performance sounds woefully like that of a beginner. His rhymes are forced, his syntax is wrenched for rhymes that aren't particularly good in the first place, and his meter is extremely slack if it exists at all. This is particularly a problem as the greatness of Rimbaud's 40-some-odd early poems derives in large part from his technical genius. To take at random only one of many examples, in his translation of "Les Corbeaux," Mason translates what in English means roughly "Strange army with [your] harsh cries,/Cold winds are ravaging your nests" as "Strange armies with cries that crack/ Cold nests that winds attack." This contains the sort of forcing of rhymes that an adept poet would know to avoid. Mason has added highly unnatural demonstrative pronouns to these two very short phrases in order to get a rhyme whose first element "crack" is way off. The result is an ugly fragment. Of course crows' cries might be described as cracking, but not in this poem. The same translation ends with "Alas" which is no where in the original, and is again inserted for rhyme's sake. Falling as it does at the end of the last line, it makes the poem sound glib and world-weary. In French, the poem is certainly not glib and not exactly world-weary in the way that "Alas," as the poem's final word, makes it sound. I could go on for a page with problems I find in just this one poem. The text is filled--filled--with such clunkiness, and it makes for bad poetry _and_ bad translation of meaning. If Mason were a good, resourceful poetic translator, he would not be quite so baffled by the formal constraints. Perhaps he should have rendered a prose translation. Surely he should have worked harder at it. But I guess few are the people who know how to translate poems, and even fewer are those who can spy a bad translation
