It's very true that Bennett's prose is full of wonderful, vivid and often ironic commentary.  This book gives you a great sense of place to the "five towns" (based on the six towns that would become Stoke-on-Trent) from the mid-nineteenth century to the early twentieth.  Detail is exactly right for time and place.  That makes it a rather interesting read.

However, there's next to no forward motion to this book. Two sisters lead divergent lives-- the beautiful one runs off with a hapless commercial traveler to Paris.  The dutiful one stays home, manages the shop, and marries the clerk.  But that's about it for drama.  Both sisters grow older, have some not very interesting stuff happen to them, then meet up again after a long time and end their lives together.  OK, Sophia, the beautiful one, does survive the siege of Paris, and become a manager/proprietress of a well-run pension. But somehow even this lacks drama.

Bennett is often praised for how well he wrote his women characters.  I disagree.  They are well observed it's true, and some of his projections about what they might feel-- when Constance, the dutiful one, faces "empty nest syndrome" so mournfull, for example-- are accurate.  But he imagines no real complexity for them.  Both women are extraordinarily passive in most ways.  The men in the book occupy far less time but manage to seem more human.  Compare and contrast JANE EYRE:  on the surface a rather prim, direct governess-- but as Bronte writes her, she has a passionate, vibrant beating heart.

In Bennett's world, women don't particularly long for sex nor care about it, nor think much about attachment at all.   I think it's very telling that Bennett was inspired by the sight of an older woman in a restaurant.  It was not a woman he knew, but a woman he saw.  He imagined everything else about her.

If the time and place is enough to draw you in, then this book certainly does have that, as the 600-something pages sprawl about 50 years.  But if you like a good narrative, apart from "people get older," look elsewhere.  The writing is very good, but although Bennett's often compared to Balzac and Zola, he lacks their punch-- and I also think, essentially lacks their heart
