The principle question that arises from a reading of &quot;Soul by Soul&quot; by Walter Johnson is why was this book written? It is touted as history, yet not only does it lack any original historical material, it  also lacks any discernable historical facts. Rather than history,  &quot;Soul by Soul&quot; seems to be a mean-spirited, emotional tract  designed to promote two fundamental ideas: 1. that white people living in  the antebellum South were universally loathsome, brutish and cruel and 2.  that black people living in the antebellum South were universally noble,  good and abused. To support his views, Professor Johnson strings together a  loose collection of repetitious snippets from antebellum abolitionist  literature and excerpts from gossipy litigation proceedings. His personal  contribution is represented by his miraculous ability to enter the psyche  of the book's long deceased characters and divine their true, but unspoken,  motives and thoughts. Quite a feat for any historian!      One loses count  of the number of times that the reader is treated to white people using  their &quot;probing fingers&quot; in this book. Fortunately, in between  probes, the reader can be shocked by the &quot;killing fields of the lower  South,&quot; the &quot;historical sexualization of black bodies,&quot; the  &quot;slaveholders' inevitable failure to live through the stolen bodies of  their slaves,&quot; and the &quot;brutish perogatives of whiteness.&quot;  This is heavy, hate-filled stuff worthy of a TV mini-series but it is out  of place in a supposedly serious history text.       I live in a former  slave quarter in New Orleans. In the antebellum period, this building and  its resident slaves were, interestingly enough, owned by a free black who  was financially ruined in 1863 by the Emancipation Proclamation. As an  amateur historian, I would have thought that a book about the New Orleans  slave market would contain some pertinent historical facts about these  markets. What were their addresses? What percentage of their customers were  black? What percentage were white? How many slaves did the typical New  Orleans household have? How were they fed and clothed? What were their  working hours? These are basic questions that should have been addressed  but instead, the reader is given an emotionally charged, repetitious,  boring rehash of tired, previously published material. In short, this book,  for the most part, reads like a rambling, overly long sermon. Anyone  seeking serious scholarship on the subject of slavery would do well to look  elsewhere and should consider reading the &quot;Slave Narratives&quot;  compiled by the Federal Writers Project, &quot;Time on the Cross&quot; by  Robert Fogel and Stanley Engerman and &quot;The Slave Trade&quot; by Hugh  Thomas. The first of these is a collection of interviews of former slaves  performed by the W.P.A. in the 1930's. The latter two works contain  original historical research and both deal with the facts of slavery, not  the emotions
