Andrew Weill is perhaps the most well-known of these type of practioners.  Unfortunately, some of what he has to say has been clinical disproven. For example, in study after study, large amnounts of Vitamin C given orally do absolutely nothing more than a  
placebo for cancer patient.  Yet he still preaches this.  Given intravenously, actually, there is some evidence that it may work for some people..but it does not work by stimulating your immune system..it works in a different way.  The book How To treat and Prevent Cancer with Natural Medicine is far superios in my opinion, even though it was written by four naturopaths in 2002.  Even then they admitted that clinical studies were showing that there was no advantage of taking Vitamin C orally over a placebo, 
and the authors freely admitted it. But much of what the discussed in that book..Eight Magic supplements to take when you have cancer..has actually been proven. I am a cancer patient with myeloma.  Maitake D fraction, curcumin (it must be taken w/bioperine an hour before meals), selenium, and some other things they mention have all been proven in clinical studies or are being worked on.  They do not promise that they have a cure of anything..they only say it may help in the context of complimentary medicine. They do not claim an organic diet will cure cancer or that medical science would hide it if they have a cure.  The book by Quiallan I think claims that an organic diet will cure you, and there is post after post that this has actually worked.  Maybe it has..but as a myeloma patient..my immune system is overstimulated, so I cannot take most immune system supplements..and some like Vitamin C are actually antagonistic In Vitro to myeloma treatments..this usually translates to the same thing in the body..unlike positive in studies that often do not pan out.

Anyway, I am not saying Dr. Weill is all wrong, but do not pretend he has a cure.  I have known secondhand two people who have been cured by long fasts of only carrot juice, another two by healers (I  am not religious), and one who claims that barley juice and lowering his PH totally got rid of his cancer.  I believe these people all may have gotten rid of their LOCALIZED tumors this way. For blood cancers, such as leukemia and myeloma (a cancer of blood produced in the marrow), we do not exactly have localized tumors.

But with the addition of supplements mentioned in Dr. Murray et al's book, my response to medications has been phenomenal and I have went into remission. Unfortunately, at this time, myeloma always comes back from remission. There is new understanding why this may be so..that just came out December 2005.  There is even a drug available..but it will not be available to myeloma patients for a long while
