When I saw "The only fitness book you will ever need" in the title, I probably examined the book a little more closely than most.  It is broken into 3 parts, (Cardio, Nutrition and weight training).
The part on weight training was great, couldn't find a fault.  Most people will complain that he doesn't go in detail on proper form, but I have lifted before so I didn't see anything wrong.

The Nutrition part is were you will lose the average person.  First of all it is extremely expensive.  Why, you ask ?  It seems according to Frank's plan, the more you weigh, the more you need to eat.  I weigh 220 lbs. and can't afford the protein part of the program.  Does this guy have a clue how much meat and eggs cost ??  He has you buying chicken and eggs like it was water !!  Also, you better have a friend that works at MET-Rx, he has you using that too.....did you ever price that stuff ??
Hey Frank, you do realize that some of us have a mortgage, right ?

Oh yes.....the Cardio.  I had an easier time in Advanced Calculus.  He has you figure out you Maximum Heart Rate, I thought great.  Wait a minute you are not done.....now you must figure out the range and work out at 50 to 70 % of that number. Then I thought, how do I know if I am at 70% of my MHR while I am on a bike ?......Frank says to buy a heart monitor !!!   God only knows how much that will cost !!!  

I will finish by saying this. 

The trouble when bodybuiders write a book is that they think the average person has the time and money that they do.  Frank Sepe is a world class bodybuilder, actor and now an author.  So, I think it's pretty safe to say he makes a lot more than my 40k a year. If I had his income I could then afford his program.   Also, he must realize that most of us DON'T want to look like him.  I'd be happy just losing 20 pounds and lowering my cholesterol, not enter a "Mr. Universe" contest.

I would be much better off with a book that is more realistic.  If this is the "Only fitness book you'll ever need", then you are in big trouble.
 
