This is a philosophy book. There is almost nothing about natural selection and not much more about religion, just plenty of standard philosophy loosely connected to a condemnation of current western culture and its supposed pseudoscience sustenance. Midgley uses the term 'evolution' to mean the philosophizing of scientists and science writers. As religion too is human philosophizing it is hardly difficult to make the two converge.

This 'evolution' Midgley citicizes as being too human-centred. As there is nothing more human-centred than the social sciences, humanities and religion and this 'evolution' is really philosophy then it is an empty criticism. Only the physical sciences look beyond humans but this is unacknowledged.

She is, though, correct in saying that natural selection is not about progress up a ladder nor about a hostile, doom and gloom world. Other than this her grasp of biology is suspect eg she asks how genes can be selfish when they die when the cells they are in die!!!!! No wonder the excellent work of people such as Dawkins is beyond her grasp if she does not understand the connection between body cells and germ-line cells.

Though I generally agree with Midgley's concerns about competitive greed and the destruction of our planet I think she is wrong to blame science, pseudoscience or sociobiology and to disconnect people in modern western culture from their ancestors and their cousins in other cultures. She is clearly out of her depth when it comes to biology, at least.

With a statement that evolution is the creation myth of our age plus the eye-catching mistitle of this book Midgley is far more guilty of hyperbole and melodrama and potentially far more misguided and damaging than, for example, Dawkins when he used the 'as if' selfish gene perspective.

There are a few interesting discussions of works by scientists and philosophers but, especially for the science writers she criticizes, I would very much recommend people read the books themselves and not simply accept Midgley's views on them.
