I tried to go into this book with an open mind, but I came out thinking that Barnett simply doesn't understand the world or its problems. He is like the armchair quarterback who thinks he can win the super bowl even though he never really played or understood the game.

Barnett suggests, for example, a policy of total appeasment of China. All US strategic interests in the region are to be surrendered so the US can focus on fighting more wars like Iraq. Taiwan is to be sold out and given to China to make them "happy". Even thought China is a communist dictatorship, Barnett sees it as the great friend and partner of the united states. All the US needs to do is to stop opposing China's legitmate interest....and sell out every friend we have in East Asia...and we can fight more wars like Iraq to bring civilization to third-world garbage pits. Like certain people in the government, Barnett is willing to destroy the entire global strategic position of the united states to bring "democracy" to places like Iraq.

In the case of Iran, its even worse. The solution to all of our problems with the leadership in Iran will apparently be solved if they love Israel more. So we should launch a diplomatic initiative to beg Iran to love Israel more for which America will surrender to all Iran's regional objectives including nuclear weapons and domination of the Persian Gulf. As with China, what he is promoting is a policy of appeasement so the US can apparently have more resources to fight more iraq-like wars.

So what does America get in exchange for appeasing its strategic rivals in the world? Barnett wants the US go to war to oppose "socialism" in Venezuala and wherever else it appears. Somehow in Barnett's mind, China is not a threat or a rival to the US, neither is a nuclear armed Iran....but a third-rate nobody like Venezuala is a mortal threat to America that requires armed intervention, the overthrow of the government and thousands of Americans to teach them how to be free. Barnett is also in favor of "women's rights" in muslim as a cynical mechanism to be used to justify political intervention in muslim countries. Its not that Barnett cares about women. Their rights matter far less to him than using their rights as a means of forcing American-style secularization into the middle east. I might have called it original but for the fact that many neo-cons who have utter contempt for feminism have been promoting similar ideas for years.

As in the pentagon's new map - his previous book - Barnett wants to see America as the New Jerusalem leading the world. The only thing wrong with America in his thinking is that we need to be more up front in taking over and civilizing every messed up basket case of a country in the world. The costs or the implications of what he is proposing don't bother him in the least. He doesn't, for example, think about where all these Americans are going to come from who are going to move to places like Somalia to bring civilization. Or how big a military is going to be required to protect all those people doing civil affairs work. Implicit in his strategy of appeasement I guess is that the US will dismantle its "useless" high-tech army are redeploy most of the people/money associated with it. Tanks, Carriers and Jet Fighters will no longer be necessary once we surrender all our friends in Asia to China. Barnett never goes that far, but I get the impression he wants to. In the end he is unwilling to even recognize the price tag of what he is proposing. 

My largest disagreement with Barnett is over the nature of America and what the mission of the American military is. To Barnett, America is a country whose destiny is to lead and save the world. The American military's mission is nothing less than to save the world from itself. To me, America is my country and the first task of Americans is to improve our country. The role of our military is not to solve the world's problems, but to defend the country against threats. A dictator in South America or Africa is not necessarly a threat to America. If a country harbours terrorists, thats a threat. If a country in South America nationalizes its telephone system, thats not a threat to anyone except the country itself.

I think the book fails because of its appeasment of real strategic threats to America (China, Iran), its failure to make a case for why its in America's interests to fight all these wars and its failure to examine in a serious way how his "blueprint" is to be made real. Higher Taxes? Higher Deficits? A draft? Gutting the current military? Anyone can play Napoleon and come up with all sorts of grand strategy. The difference between playing and having a real strategy is in presenting a plan for how you realistically make it happen. Barnett fails to do so.

I would suggest his other book "the pentagon's new map" over this one
