Like many fitness gurus who resort to training as an escape from learning science, math, and the other related disciplines, yet believe that they could master the complexity of these integrated fields, without even touching a text book, Bob Greene embodies such naïve and simplistic approach.  In this book, he improvises many flawed information, believing that the folks training for fitness are the last people to discover his lazy and flawed interpretation of the physiology of fitness.

Although he states that this book is not about fitness or diet, yet he deals solely with fitness and diet claiming to enhance health and emotional well being. He describes FOUR phases for accomplishing that goal as follows:

(1)	Phase One is preparation in which he recommends drinking a minimum of 6 glasses of water daily. 
(2)	Phase Two is revving up your metabolism in which he recommends drinking a minimum of 7 glasses of water daily. 
(3)	Phase Three deals with emotional eating in which he recommends drinking a minimum of 8 glasses of water daily. 
(4)	Phase Four deals with emotional well being in which he recommends drinking 9 glasses of water daily. 

So, if the 6, 7, 8, and 9 numbers do not raise your suspicion about the irrationality of this author, hold your breath, for you will have to unlearn all common knowledge and relearn new flawed information from this book, as follows: 

(1) On page 59, the author states: 
"Physically fit individuals store considerably more water than unfit individuals. This explains how a very fit person can weigh much more than their appearance would suggest".   

He does not cite a reference for such simplistic explanation. One would assume that a physically fit person has better cardiovascular condition that manages water storage more efficiently without accumulating body fluids. He explains that based on the glycogen contents of fit muscles, while ignoring the increased calcium storage in fit people that adds to their bodyweight. 

In that page also, he states: "daily, weekly, monthly, and seasonal water cycles fluctuation is not fully understood" without citing any reference for such bizarre phenomena that he alone believes in. 

(2) On page 66, he defines "metabolism" as the rate that your body burns calories and that `rate' is the key word. He thus does not understand that metabolism is a process of assimilating biological products.  

(3) On page 67, he erroneously states:
"There is no way to measure the rate of burning calories directly other than feeling perspiration and getting clothes more loose after exercise."

He thus does not understand the basic physiological experiment of measuring caloric expenditure that many high school kids learn in high school. 

He erroneously states that "when you're dehydrated, you eat more" and calls that "artificial hunger". That is very bizarre way of interpreting physiology.

(4) On page 107, he claims that research proves that 30 to 40 minutes per week of aerobics is adequate, without citing any source for that research. 

(5) On page 109, he erroneously claims that low intensity exercise burns lots of calories but makes you get "very hungry" and eventually eat back all of the burned-off calories.  There is no justification for that false claim.

(6) On page 117, he states that alcohol contains 7 calories per gram without stating which type of alcohol. The USDA National Nutrient Database gives less than 3.83 Calories/ gram of WHISKEY, other alcoholic beverages contain less than that.

(7) On page 152, he claims that starting training with weights in phase One will increase your appetite, which is another bizarre discovery.

(8) The book has 72 blank sheets, for the reader to fill in, out of 200 pages of the whole books. There are no references.

