Early on in this interminable narrative, the three items of my subject line are referred to as unified. Mailer does labor mightily to bring this monsterful novel forth as a masterful tale. In the opening pages, describing death and pain, in the set-piece battle with the Hittites, in his description of being within the bowels of a tomb, in other descriptions of being within another's bowels--here, he succeeds. Like it or not, the excremental theme manages to connect the mud, the fecundity, the slime, the stink with carnal and practical and spiritual knowledge through power. I wonder if Foucault read this before he died? 

What's disappointing, then, are the stagnant patches you must slog, or more likely skim, to get to the energized portions. Nearly 650 pages, and probably no more than 150 of them reward your effort. The characters of the little queens Honey Ball and Heqat, big queen Nefertiti, the main pharoahs, and the Hittite princess do manage to leap off the page. But you miss others that needed to be drawn more distinguishably--such as the wife of the Hebrew that the protagonist marries for fourteen or so years--this whole "lost weekend" episode could have been much better written. This whole lacuna in the story sags, as if Mailer had to have the narrator pass a few years in exile in order for the rest of Egypt to move forward to catch up with him.

As a result, the bracing plunge Mailer does give you into the mentality of an entirely alien way of faith, cosmology, and ethos manages to immerse you for long periods, only to be irritable when, as in the final stretch of the book, the care taken in parts falls apart and the story lumbers to an indifferently conveyed conclusion. As the pages go on, the narrative design of the book weakens, and the whole shift from one life to another seems to be--as in many time-travel stories--wobblier and less convincing. The ability of characters to drift in and out of each other's consciousness is an excellent device, yet it too is applied almost at random rather than with care. 

I suppose the hours I spent with this book entertained me, but the investment of time paid off with less consistent rewards than the decade Mailer spent upon its construction would lead you to believe.
