Clive Cussler made his reputation writing books with plots that are barely believable using characters that are totally unbelievable saving the world over and over again from his perch in an unknown but extremely powerful U.S. government agency. After many successful books, Clive perfected the formula and is now sharing it with Paul Kemprecos who co-writes an analogous series which uses the same agency, plots, and characters. Oh, this series does change some things, the main character is Kurt not Dirk and his sidekick is Mexican and not Italian. Also, there is a second pack of characters (Paul and Gamay Trout) who allow the plot to develop through a second set of eyes.

None of which takes away from the formulaic tone of this series and this book in particular. In typical fashion, the first chapter is a historical look that "sets the stage." In this case it is an aerial combat over the Alps in 1914 between an industrialist and six (6!!) combat pilots. Needless to say, the industrialist holds his own and manages to down four of his foes before he himself is shot down and killed. The next chapter comes to the present time and takes off a second thread - this time it is a "survivor"-type of reality show which is interrupted by an attack of some mutated beings. The third chapter starts pulling all these disparate threads together and off we go.

Unfortunately, this book is too formulaic. It does not take the reader long to realize who the threat is, nor does it take us long to see the connections between the various threads. The only real complication is a completely preposterous connection between the bad guy's attempt to take over the world and an infestation of some new kind of sea weed that tries to take over the oceans.

As is usual in these novels, there are high speed car chases, underwater action, aerial acrobatics (in world war 1 vintage planes no less!), underwater escapades and explosion galore. throughout them all, the hero gets a bit bruised but the thugs all manage to get killed (Even though they are supposedly highly trained special forces types) and the world is rescued by the effort of one man - Kurt Austin. There is a love interest (why a different one in each book? Doesn't he ever get to enjoy some time with his rescued conquest?) who is French, and side visits to Scotland and Massachusetts.

The only unique thing about this book was that it was the first time that I was exposed to the "Premium" format which is a slightly longer/taller book with more space between the lines. The book cover states that this format is "Specially designed for comfortable reading" but I cannot say that it improved things for me that much.

To summarize, as a Clive Cussler fan, I had to read this book to make sure I keep up with the adventures, but this one is not in the top two-thirds of his efforts. I am sure that Kurt Austin will reappear soon and hope that the next one will be more interesting and fun to read
