The measurement and assessment of human creativity and genius has for some time been a major issue, especially in the twentieth-century where statistics was being aggressively applied to the social sciences. It is still of great current interest, some of this interest having its origin in legal matters dealing with employment law and some of it arising because of efforts to design and build machines that can emulate or even surpass human creativity. Too often though, in spite of the statistical tools available, sophisticated rhetoric and subjective judgment are relied upon to assess whether the work of one individual is better than another. A more quantitative measure of human achievement would not only be intrinsically interesting but would also have great practical use. It would allow for example more accurate (and thus fair) assessment of employee contributions, when to grant promotions, and so on. On a more grand scale, it would also shed light on what cultures, conditions, or political arrangements optimize or nurture human accomplishment. And somewhat removed from human contexts, it could also be applied very robustly to the measurement and grading of machine intelligence, which a perusal of the research literature will show that the latter has been extremely difficult to do. 

The author of this book, being a statistician, is clearly not satisfied with rhetorical or subjective measures of human accomplishment. He is also very interested in finding out which regions in the world have indeed produced the most human genius, the latter of which must satisfy a criterion that is driven by data or historical evidence. The author has taken on a major project in this regard, but his efforts get stymied sometimes in the book because of his displeasure with `political correctness' and `multiculturalism'. There are several places in the book where he feels that he must apologize for his language or even for his conclusions, because they are possibly at odds with the language or beliefs of certain groups of people. But if his criterion for `eminence' is objective, is based on factual data, and has predictive power, then it needs no apology, and he does not need to answer the capricious responses to research of the kind in this book. 

But how do you identify excellence in a manner that is independent of mere opinion or subjective judgment? Indeed is it possible to ever identify it in a way that is not based on opinion? The author devotes an entire chapter of the book to this question, and in general, his commentaries are insightful and thought provoking. He makes it clear from the very start that he does not consider fame as a valid measure of excellence in human accomplishment. Instead, he relies on what he calls `standard historiometric methods' to identify this excellence, these methods discussed in fair detail throughout the chapter.

Because of its emphasis on `objective truth' and its reliance on data, accomplishment in the scientific realm would seem fairly straightforward to quantify. But some scientific ideas, or `discoveries' are important even if they are later found to be wrong, and are therefore buried in the literature on the history of science. False leads, experimental results that cannot be replicated, blunders and serendipity all assist in scientific advancement and are of great assistance in weeding out strategies and pruning the search tree. However their influences, although acknowledged by historians, are not weighted heavily. "Eminent" scientists are thus viewed as not depending on these false results, with the consequence that their contributions are thought of as a radical break with the past, not depending on it at all or only minimally. It then becomes easy to impute genius to these individuals, and their eminence, as well as their fame, thus becomes inflated and therefore unjustified. 

The arts and the humanities are more problematic when it comes to assessing human accomplishment, and the author fully realizes this. He relies to some extent on the notion, due to the philosopher David Hume, that people have different capacities for discerning aesthetic qualities. In more detail, the author asserts that the appreciation of an entity (or event) varies according to the quantity of knowledge that the person possesses when encountering it. As the knowledge increases, so does the "objective" appreciation of the entity or event in question.Thus begins the author's apology for the use of `experts' in assessing human accomplishment or eminence. It is the relation of expertise to judgment that lays the foundation for example for assessing excellence in the arts as something that is measurable. 

But there are obvious problems with this approach, even though at first glance it seems to be viable due to the use of statistical analysis. One problem is with the knowledge of the experts themselves. How did they obtain it and why should interested parties believe in what they say? Is one to take it at face value without any objective assessment? If the experts are not themselves `eminent' should one really think they have special insights into the quality of those that are eminent? How indeed would one assess the opinions of the experts if one were not an expert? Should one take their opinions on faith, or respect without question the hierarchies that they are embedded in? Should one indeed view the author's opinions themselves as being expert? Has he found a criterion, to be deemed `expert' for assessing the legitimacy of `expertise'?

The answer to many, if not all of these questions is no. One should never, despite the pressures from others, take the opinions of others as being `expert' without any cognitive effort or independent judgment. A novel, scientific idea, or musical piece should be assessed not according to the "expert's" opinions, but according to the evidence available to the person. There is a large degree of subjectivity involved, and choices of hedonic functions to be made, some of these frequently being arbitrary. The subordination of personal judgment to the tyranny of expert opinion though is an anathema, to be steadfastly avoided. 
