Upfront I have to say that I have been a military wife for almost 20 years, so I speak from a voice of experience.  Ms. Houppert didn't write this as a documentary, she wrote it as a political statement.  I do not  have blinders on nor am I a military version of the Stepford wife, yet I found this book riddled with Ms. Houppert's own agenda.  Her anti-war bias comes across very strong, yet personally I am not worried about whether she is pro or anti war, as it is her portrayal of the military wife that matters.  Her one example of a successful working military wife in the beginning shadows the rest of a very dark and depressing saga.  Next in line is the ONE example of a stay at home mom, a high school dropout teenage Mom who sits her developmentally challenged child in front of the television 24/7.  Of course this stay at home Mom is also a self confessed soap opera addict, and it is suggested she is only staying at home because she is trapped.  Then comes the horrible SECRET of domestic abuse, and stories of our guys coming home from the war riddled with questions, amputations, and the urge to kill all their loved ones.  This book is a slap in the face to most military wives I have known in my just shy of 20 years experience.  I know wonderful, successful working wives, and smart, gutsy stay at home wives and mothers, who are staying home because they WANT to.  Our lives are difficult and have more challenges, especially with long deployments and the job we face coping with work, children, and household responsibilities with our loved one away for very long periods of time.  But the truth is...we are DOING it!  And doing it alot more gracefully and bravely than Ms. Houppert shows!  I have never been a robot who kept my mouth shut...I know wives who don't agree with everything their Commander in Chief decides to do with their loved ones...i.e. Somolia under Bill Clinton...but we are proud of our men and women regardless.  Ms. Houppert further makes her political ideology known by referring the reader to the "helpful" anti-war Cindy Sheehan promoting website Moveon.org, in the cloak of providing help for military wives and families.  Yeah, right!!!  We already have the help we need....each other!!!!  And we are alot stronger and braver than you give us credit for, Ms. Houppert!
