The English-Speaking world has badly needed a wide-ranging history of Christianity that focuses on the lives of ordinary Christians. Unfortunately, this need still goes unmet.  The contributors to the first two volumes of this series (the only ones I've looked at so far) often have mastered an impressive amount of factual material about earliest Christianity, mined from a variety of literary and non-literary sources. Unfortunately, they interpret this mass of data through the distorting lens of a couple of highly questionable theories - theories which they accept without examination, or even question. The result is that little of what they say about the topic is reliable or useful.

The older of these unquestioned theories is the famous 'Bauer Hypothesis', developed by the German historian Walter Bauer way back in the early 19th century.  Bauer argued that originally there were a multiplicity of competing "Christianities" - no one more correct or authentic than any other - and that it wasn't until after several centuries of struggle that what we know as "orthodox Christianity" finally triumphed, and then attempted to destroy all trace of its vanquished rivals.  This theory has become almost unquestioned "orthodoxy" (forgive the pun) in most academic circles, but few scholars have bothered to make a serious examination of its assumptions to see if they fits the facts.  Some scholars have, however, and one of them is the current Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, who wrote an essay called "Does It Make Sense to Speak of pre-Nicene Orthodoxy" as his contribution to 'The Making of Orthodoxy: Essays in Honor of Henry Chadwick'. He seriously undermines Bauer's assumptions and makes a convincing case for a profound and intentional unity in faith and practice in earliest Christianity. I recommend you check it out.

The second theory governing this series is much more recent, but no more scrutinized. This is "Foucauldianism" - developed by late 20th century French deconstructionists, particularly Michel Foucault. It was Foucault's belief that all discourse (religious, political, philosophic, whatever) has one purpose - to help one person/group to exercise power and control over another.  Applying this attitude to Christianity, for example, has obvious results.  One will look at any theological statement about the Trinity, Christ, salvation or ascetical practice and wonder, "Who is trying to control and manipulate whom by teaching this."  For most of the contributing scholars, this plays out in perceived issues of class and gender. The Church fathers, who have been revered for centuries as teachers of Christian truth, are now seen as 'The Elite' who created "discourses" to maintain their power and exercise "discipline" on the masses. The masses, for their part, may have pretended to go along, but (these historians assure us) they were always creating "subversive interpretations" of the Elite's discourses, in an effort to undermine power structures and liberate themselves. As you can tell, this sort of rhetoric gets awefully tiresome after a while.

It is obvious to me that it will be impossible to make a fair or useful evaluation of orthodox Christian faith and life when all the evidence is selected and distorted so as to fit agendas such as these. I'm still waiting for that good social history of early Christianity. 

  
