Im not really writing this review to sway anyone's opinion of it.  Tastes are different from person to person.  Some may love this book, others may hate it, and a few will think its okay, that is just the way things are.  I only wanted to share my opinion about it, because oddly enough it stirs up strong emotions within me whenever I think about it.
The first time i read this book I hated it.  I have read it again since then and upon finshing it twice I still don't like this book at all.  Yet, during both times that I read it I could not put the book down.  This is the bizarre duplicitous nature of The Relic.  I do not like the story or the characters, but still I have been drawn in.  As much as I hate to admit it I consider this book to be a real page-turner.  

I don't think i need to go into the plot so I will list the offenses this book commits (once again this is just my opinion).

Predictability - I dont think I was surprised even once while reading this book.  It gives you the kind of cut and pasted characters that are far to overused these days.  From the first time a character is introduced you can pretty much tell whether they are in it for the long haul, or merely here to serve as entree's for the monster.  The outcome of most of the situations presented are easily deciphered if given any thought at all.  Not to spoil any surprises but I'll give you one guess what happens when we are informed that the museum the beast haunts has a security system with solid metal doors that fall into place to cut off a supposed thief's escape route.  Throw in the fact that we are informed of this right before a gala premier of the museums' new attraction in which hundreds of guests will be attending and...well I think you allready know where this is going.

Poor Characters -  All your cliche's are here.  From the overworked, underappreciated heroine, who puts all the pieces together, to the museums management staff who refuse to shut down the museums' premier even after numerous, grisly murders.  Why? do you ask.  Because of revenues of course. I wonder if the museums' head director wears the same suits as the mayor from the movie Jaws.  If the characters arent fulfilling the role as a needed cliche' then they are doing the exact opposite that any sane person would do.  If I heard strange noises in a closed section of the museum I was gaurding, especially after the fact that at least two horrific murders were commited in the vicinity, I would call for backup before I investigated.  Of course I am sane, so reverse what I would have done and you get the basic course of action most of the people in this book take.

UNBELIEVABILITY -  There were many times while reading this book when I had to stop and say, "Give me a break."  I also used the expressions, "Oh, please", and "That is so STUPID!".  Many times we are expected to deny common sense, and reason so that the story can progress.  Of course if you had a monster that could be killed like any other animal on this planet, then this book would probably only be 100 pages long.  So in an effort to stretch it out to 400 or so pages you need a creature that can be described as nothing short of the animal equivalent of a sherman tank.  Im not kidding, this monkey-lizard is shot no less than 5 times and probably a great deal more with no ill effects.  I don't want to give anything more away, but there will be many times when you will find something hard to believe in this book.

Many "What a rip-off" moments - To often while reading this book I found myself comparing it to some other book or movie that had come before it.  There is a reason so many people compare this book to Jurrasic Park, many plot points and supposed surprises seem to be taken right out of Chricton's book.  So instead of putting the quote "Far above Chricton's Jurassic Park" on the cover of The Relic, I would have put "Not above taking ideas from better books".  Put Jurrasic Park, Congo, and Jaws in a blender and you have The Relic. This "borrowing" of ideas seems so bad at times that I wouldnt be surprised if for every copy of The Relic sold Micheal Chricton received royalties.

Once again I feel compelled to mention that for all its stupidity, and predictability, I could not put this book down.  For that reason alone this book is probably worth reading, and sharing with your friends.  Then you can all sit down and compare notes on how many times you each found an instance where you found yourself thinking of another, probably better, book
