The first rule of self-defence should always be: be smart. Arm yourself with facts, be alert and find out everything you can about the situation you're in. Sometimes standing your ground and fighting isn't as smart as simply running away. Every situation is different, and if you have your wits about you, you'll be able to seize the scene up and respond accordingly. 

"Beauty Bites Beast" has all the energy an inspirational book on self-defence should contain, but it fails to provide the reader with solid facts. For instance, none of the chapters have footnotes, and so you don't know which source Ellen B. Snortland is quoting when she claims that, "As it turns out, many of the warriors whom the last century diggers assumed were men, were women." Nothing would please me more than to hear that the women of yore were tough and hard-hitting, but which digging expeditions is Snortland referring to? And what civilisations? 

Another unsubstantiated charge Snortland makes is that the Black Plague was partly a result of the witch-trials. Her claim is that when they burned women they also burned cats, and with fewer cats there would be more rats to spread the disease. Say what? The Black Plague originated in the east and was brought to Europe by the trading routes. It wasn't domestic rats that caused all the excitement, but immigrant rats. And once the plague had hit shores it didn't need to rely on rats to spread from person to person. (More information: http://www.tiscali.co.uk/reference/encyclopaedia/hutchinson/m0017916.html) Another fact to consider is that the Black Plague came to Europe around 1347, whilst the witch trials didn't catch fire until 1484 when Pope Innocent VIII declared that a war be fought against witches and warlocks. (More information: http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/source/witches1.html) So much for conspiracy theories. 

There are other sections in "Beauty Bites Beast" that threw me off. In a complaint that feminists are scoffed at, Snortland mentions Susan McKinnon and the late Andrea Dworkin as being serious feminists. If serious is used as a synonym for 'without humour,' then yes, I agree; they are both serious. But even a non-humorous feminist has to see why Dworkin and McKinnon have been the recipients of much mockery. They have never been what you could call moderate, and despite their own claims have not been the voices of the everywoman (or man). 

Snortland clearly has a good agenda, but her own energy sometimes runs off with her. Having read and benefited from Gavin deBecker's "The Gift of Fear," I was hoping this would be a good companion book, something to further inspire me to keep my fighting spirit intact. It didn't do that for me, instead it simply fell to the floor with a hard thump. This is a real shame. 

Sloppy fact checking in the name of self-improvement simply isn't good enough. To be truly fierce, we have come prepared, and that includes knowing what we're NOT up against
