Here is a quick overview of how I figured out the monetary system to the point of being confident that my understanding is reasonably correct and being able to explain the basic scam in about 45 minutes.
 
First I became convinced that if I am ever going to understand how the world works I should probably figure out an answer to the question "what is money?"  Surprisingly, a search on Amazon.com did not return very many books on the topic.  Like any good college educated liberal I chose the one book which garnered praise from all my favorite trusted sources such as the New York Times and the Washington Post.  I didn't see how I could possibly go wrong spending $12.92 for the 800 page book "Secrets from the Temple: How the Federal Reserve Runs the Country", which The Nation said, "May be the most important political book of the decade."
 
Unfortunately, after reading William Greider's 10 year, day by day account of Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volker's back and forth decisions on raising and lowering interest rates, I still did not have the foggiest clue as to what money is or how it is created.  I'm sure most people would have given up at this point but I was not ready to throw in the towel.  For some reason I was not convinced by the book's conclusion that it was critically important to maintain the money mystery because "Taboos uncoded lost their power to persuade...The mystery was necessary, therefore, to sustain social faith. Knowledge was disturbing.  Not knowing the secrets was reassuring."
 
I needed another book, however the only ones that the New York Times seemed to recommend were all described as condensed versions of "Secrets of the Temple."  I had no choice but to bite the bullet and for the first time in my life order a book which was not recommended by the New York Times.  I ordered "The Creature from Jekyll Island: A Second Look at the Federal Reserve by G. Edward Griffin.  At least Willie Nelson seemed to like it.  Actually, I wasn't quite sure if Willie Nelson was wholeheartedly endorsing the book in his review which simply read, "Scary. It's the story of the world banking system. Enough said."
 
I was quite pleased that Jekyll Island contained a pretty good description of the money creation process.  However, the book contained a lot more than that.  All I can say is that I often see my life as divided into two main periods; before reading Jekyll Island and after reading Jekyll Island.  I finally knew what Willie Nelson meant by "scary."
 
Now that I was starting to really get somewhere in figuring out how money is created, I needed to find more information to clear up some of the details.  My wife even got involved in the search for truly academic and scholarly information.  I will be forever indebted to her for discovering a free downloadable copy of a book entitled "The Mystery of Banking" by Murray Rothbard.  This was exactly what I had always been looking for.  It clearly explained the process without dumbing it down in any way or obfuscating the details in order to "sustain social faith."  
 
That is essentially how I got started in learning about money.  I have found this to be the most fascinating field I have ever encountered and I am very glad that I didn't take William Grieder's advise to remain blissfully ignorant.
