It is interesting that the reviews of this book are quite bipolar. Most reviewers seem to love it; others hate it.  It is also interesting that people find the positive reviews much more helpful than the negative ones. Who is kidding whom?

In fact the book is awful and I would give negative stars if I could.  Saying that an author is courageous in bucking politically correct sentiment and implying that that sentiment somehow blocks "true science" is a cheap defense.  This book may buck a common concensus.  But it is nonsense and courageous only in the sense that the author loves to attract attention, even in the form of the disgust of other scientists.

Rushton's "scientific research" in volves a wonderful array of adhoc definitions and types of "proof" carefully twisted to serve his purposes. They are a disgraceful parody of scientific method.

some examples

1/ inventiveness?  the earliest development of farming, civilization, paper, large scale construction, writing etc. were actually in the Middle East-among people who don't fit the race classification at all. Europeans were quite late to achieve civilization and they learned it by and large from the Middle East. -

2/ the notions of R and K selection are so badly abused that Rushton actually uses them backward. Relatively steady (typically tropical) environments not northern ones are the ones that produce populations making few babies and investing heavily in them. They are not the ones that make many offspring and take little care. That tends to happen in areas of the world where lethal crises (such as freezing) regularly intervene, making heavy investment in children a questionable strategy.The proof? Two of the most highly K-selected species in the world, People and Gorillas come from the tropics. 

3/body design: large breasts and buttocks are ways to store body fat (which all women store more than men) without it putting it under the skin where it acts as an insulator.  In short it is an adaptation to hot climates where getting rid of body heat is essential.  In colder climates people need the fat as insulation and therefore spread it over their bodies.  Besides the assumption that these,particularly big breasts, are sexy is an American fetish not shared by most populations nor by most Africans.  Over all body fat, tending to signify fertility is a more common basis for evaluation.

fertility: In fact there is very little if any evidence that natural fecundity (the biological basis of fertility) varies by biological group except as a consequence of disease, malnutrition or significant breastfeeding. Fertility depends largely on how one makes us of that fecundity.
The most fecund and fertile population on record is among some groups of white North Americans who work to maximize their reproduction.  

Breast feeding is perhaps the most significant "investment" that a parent can make in a child.  Moreover, significant breast feeding is well-established as being a powerful contraceptive.

European populations led the way in eliminating breastfeeding.  African populations continued to breastfeed until they were taught by whites that it was "uncivilized"  or even tricked, as by Nestle, to stop.

IQ--just a wee bit of controversity about what it means and how to measure it.  One thing is clear.  Purposely (or even naively giving people tests irrelevant to their lives and even the language they speak or the degree of their education.  can generate any "results" one wants.  Such methods have been used to estblish an "average IQ" of 70 for subsaharan Africa.  Such an IQ implies that most Africans are retarded to the point of being dysfunctionat; that societies could not survive and could certainly not produce  rich artistic and religious lives.  Anyone with any experience or even reading about Africa knows how silly this is.  

violence:  given slavery and world conquest and mass destruction which people have actually been violent?  Given slavery, it is virtually certain that black women have been raped by whites than the other way around.

Race related IQ--how do Native Americans on reservations, known to be genetically derived from "very smart" Asians do on IQ tests?

How did Ashkenazi Jews, a loosely defined genetic group but hardly a race--unless you suddenly argue that whites aren't monolithic after all, (Jews haven't always been considered white)--went from doing so badly on IQ tests as to be considered unfit for American citizen ship to doing so well that they are one group of "whites" who compete successfully with privileged Asians. How do we explain the fact that the same biological groups do poorly or well depending on their status in the society in which they reside.  the problems can't be in the genes, they have to be in the tests or in the social conditions in which they live.

early age at menarchy.  Age at menarche is heavily dependent on the accumulation of body fat by young women.  Menarchy is not reached until the body has stored enough fat to support a preganancy.

In fact age at menarche is HIGH in cultures (most)where fatness is hard to achieve.  It has declined everywhere (for example in Europe and the United States in the last century and a half  It is a nutritional variable, not a racial one.

Crime rates: are we talking only about storefront crime or white collar crime.  Murder is clearly a function of the availability of guns than of color

race: what do we do with the fact that there are several different dark skinned groups in the world.  Black Melanesians and Australians are more closely related to whites than they are to Africans.  What race is that?  What about the fact most people are intermediate in color which shows a clear latitudinal gradient.  What of the fact that many African groups have narrow noses and short limbs, and that the shape of ones nose or lips or even the sickle cell trait don't correlate with color.


I could go on and on.  Anyone who thinks that this is a good book better become familiar with some of the realities of human biology and history..  I will be very happy to debate any of this with anyone, any convenient time
