Aesthetic choices are interesting.  Does it mean anything that the IOS packaging is elegant verging on impersonal, sort of like hotel room art, ditto the almost cool yet generic techno music bumpers?  If you've never seen Wilber, it's interesting to see him teaching in a corporate blue suit, then catch a different glimpse of the comic book hero persona at home, shaved head, tinted glasses, lovely ripped-up physique-at home, so there's a personal touch right?  Yet throughout I felt a tight, controlled stance, a veil between me, purchaser of IOS and Wilber, something I did not feel when reading the superb "A Brief History of Everything," though now that I think of it--there really was no intimacy between me, reader, and authorial persona, rather I was listening in on conversation between Q & KW.  Why does he tell it at a slant?  

Wilber frequently verbalizes "we" as opposed to "I", not the royal "we," I'm sure but rather "we at the Institute."  This would be lower left quadrant if you want to get integral, though basic knowledge of grammar suffices-no need for Integral Calculus-not I, Ken, interacting with students in a raw, unscripted manner or presenting information specially recorded for me, purchaser of this kit.  This is an arrangement of carefully excerpted bits from the Institute archives, questions voiced-over by cyber-babe, as if accomplished without Wilber's participation, including "rare" audio bits-something that always kills me when we're talking about a living personality.  Or is he?  OK, I get it.  He might be dead, and that's the point:  Wilber, "principal architect of the IOS" is supposed to be in the background paring his nails so that the theory, the Institute live on, separate from any cult of personality.  

Smart.  Except I'm obviously not the ideal purchaser of this multimedia product; likely this product exists because folks requested something like it.  I can love a mind-or a book even, aesthetically, can love the weight, the feel, the smell-but I can't love a map.  I understand I'm likely the minority view-usually am.  My husband, for example, loves maps, and no matter how empathic I believe I am, when I try to imagine what he feels tracing his finger along a map route, I always hit a wall.  One of our ongoing marital disputes involves wall dcor; I want art, he wants maps.  Guess who wins?  Maps are cheaper.  Might as well frame newsprint.  I loved "Brief History" to the same degree that I loathe this IOS 1.0; I remember thinking, when I read "History," that I could photocopy Wilber's maps and, you know, place them over my desk for a while in order to contemplate them; but I thought the more important point was not the map but my interpretation or internalization of the map.  I'm slave to no man's map.

I knew better than to buy a kit; any woman will tell you it's a raw deal and you end up with lots of packaging and unusable eye shadow shades.  But I thought, let's see about Wilber's kit, anyway.  I don't like decontextualization or, in this case, recontextualization, don't like reworked stuff; it smacks, ironically, of a kind of reductionism so that the focus on developing higher states of consciousness seems like simple self-absorption or yet another in the American tradition of self-improvement.  Next time, I'll go for greater complexity and contextual richness and pick a Wiber book instead.

So here's a postscript, for what it's worth.  I had a minute and did a super-quick scan of the Wilber web-sites, and the question that struck me, as a thirty-something mommy, was this:  do children exist in the Wilberian universe?  If a theory of integral parenting exists, I'd love to read more, but meanwhile I'm working toward an idea of evolutionary parenting on my own.  If you're not a parent, or if you're a Boomer and did that a long time ago, you won't care about what I'm saying, but it is relevant in terms of demographics and integral practice, and the obvious strikes me now, that this product exists for either my mother (though she probably can't run a DVD) or my baby sister, but not for someone at my stage of life; that I'm interested in Wilber's work is probably anomalous. 

Consider Wilber's concept of the essential modules of integral practice:  physical, cognitive, psychodynamic and meditative.  First, we're given a hypothetical integral practitioner named Jackie, who takes a daily multivitamin, rides her bike to work, does power yoga, visits a massage therapist, studies the AQAL model, keeps a dream journal and meditates.  Can someone please differentiate Jackie from your average nice, socially-conscious, single, self-absorbed San Franciscan, elbow-deep in the descended grid, for me?  If Jackie's lucky, she can meet most of these needs at her local health club/spa, then pedal to the ferry building for organic take-out, so maybe Integral Institute should open a line of wellness centers.  My main point is that Wilber is advocating the balanced life, and I'm all for that, as some cultures maintain balance as the essential mark of the cultivated or scholarly life; perhaps only in America would we be so atomized that we need "cross-training" spelled out.  At the same time, intrinsically integral "peak" experiences-those that potentially fuse mind-body-spirit and dispel ascending or descending impulses-such as childbirth should not be discounted within a larger framework of integrated life experience, and I think an important distinction should be made between, say, smoking pot, and conscious childbirth.

I'd maintain that other viable forms of integral practice exist, and that some people may accumulate integrated life experience in terms of phases, clumps, decades; for example, in my twenties I actively pursued the physical mode in law-enforcement training, followed by a more cognitively-focused period as a graduate fellow.  My husband and I are now in that phase of life, career-building for him, child-rearing for me, where the idea of finding half an hour to meditate is ludicrous-our lives are totally out of balance now, but that's OK.  You see a similar pattern among highly-successful people who spend decades leading unbalanced lives in the pursuit of success and who then, at a later stage, pursue a more balanced approach, made possible, ironically, by the money, leisure time, etc. afforded by their earlier single-minded drive.  I'm assuming, thus, that this product is aimed mainly at those Boomers who have time and energy for self-improvement.  

