Thomas Frank's argument in this paper is somewhat true; those who live in rural areas tend to vote Republican, seemingly against their economic interests.  What we see is an overstatement by Frank in many areas.

The first is the stereotype (widely used by Frank) that those who reside in rural America are ignorant, "delusional," "beer-guzzling," uneducated individuals.  This is very far from the truth.  There are a number of economic reasons why rural Americans SHOULD vote for Republicans.
1.  The poorness of rural Americans is overstated.  People that study these cleavages, such as Jeffrey Stonecash, contend (correctly) that the "economic struggle in areas have been exaggerated."  This is due to the ultraliberal rejection of the relative cost of living.  Which will cost more: living in northern New Jersey, or living in Wyoming?  Obviously in New Jersey, where almost everything (except for maybe Haagen-Dazs) is more expensive.
2.  Rural self-images are not readily understood by liberals.  Many rural residents are either self-employed or work under few people.  This results in an emphasis on individualism and self-gain, which is a tenet of economic conservatism.  Additionally, which goes along with the lack of poorness argumet, rural Americans are much more likely to own land and therefore are supportive of Republican measures that help landowners.

Jeffery Stonecash, who has widely studied the ideas of the split between groups in American society, completely omits this from his book, "Split."  This is not to say that Stonecash has completely ignored the issue, because his article "The Rural Side of the Urban-Rural Gap" studies the issue in-depth and actually refutes Frank's narrow and hasty argument.

The assumption that Republicans have victimized rural Americans and duped these poor "suckers" into voting for them is absolutely atrocious.  What has happened since the 1960s (with the civil rights movement and evangelical movement) and especially since the early 1980s (with the emergence of Ronald Reagan and his emphasis on cultural issues, particularly abortion and traditional family values) is a greater emphasis on cultural rather than class issues.  Class issues (defined by economics) have remained generally the same and the views on these has not changed much among the parties.  Cultural issues, on the other hand, tend to polarize voters more.

The differences in rural and urban voters cannot be attributed to economics alone.  Women in rural districts are less likely to vote, so there is less voting for Democrats.  There are fewer minorities in rural areas, so Democratic votes are lower.  There are fewer secularists in rural America, so voting for Republicans is higher.

From these arguments we can see that economics is not the only force driving rural Americans to vote for Republicans.  The emergence of cultural, rather than class, issues have caused a shift in votes to the Republicans in rural districts.  In some cases, the Republican party actually is MORE attractive to rural landowners who have a sense of individualism
