Lets say you were reading a book on the mafia, written by John Gotti, or perhaps some lesser-known mobster.  And there was nothing but glowing accolades for the mob and it's activities.  Furthermore, anyone who opposed the mafia and it's activities was labeled an "extremist" and in the text, their names were never more than about 4 or 5 words away from words like "Ku Klux Klan," "racist," "bigoted," or "paranoid," you'd begin to suspect that the book was a bit biased, wouldn't you?

"Americas Uncivil Wars" is a book written by Mark Lytle, a professor at Bard College.  He documents events in American History, in this book, from the 1950's to about 1975.  Practically every time a genuine conservative individual, or organization is mentioned in this book, it is associated to a racist organization, whenever Mr. Lytle doesn't add his own commentary.  For example, on page 22, he says Joseph McCarthy revealed himself as a "mean-spirited slob."  This is a far cry from the McCarthy I know, the McCarthy who wrote the brilliant "Americas Retreat from Victory" for example.  And forget about anything good mentioned about the John Birch Society.  Page 138: "Most Americans ignored the hooded Klansmen, the John Birchers, and other extremists..."  never mind the fact that JBS is not and never was a racist or an extremist organization.  But here is their name, sandwiched between the KKK and "extremist."

It is a typical tactic of the left to associate the opposition with the "stench of racism" as Stalin may have put it (I don't remember his exact quote).  But you might ask, what about on page 89 where he refers glowingly to William F. Buckley as "the cornerstone of the anti-communist wing of conservatism...?"  Keep in mind that this is the same Buckley who years later, in Lingua Franca magazine, confessed that he would be a "Mike Harrington Socialist" or a "Communist" if he were college brat today. 

Now on the other hand, try to find anywhere in this book, the words "murderer," or even "extremist" in front of names like Mao Tse Tung, or Che Guevara or Tom Hayden, to name a few.  There is a good reason for that, but I will leave it to your imagination, the reason why.

In summary, should you decide to read this book, take it with a grain of salt, or better yet some motion-sickness pills because unless you are prone to the same convictions as our professor Lytle is, you're going to need a barf-bag
