Results makes a solid case for building blocks that a good Business 101 textbook would tell you make up a company's likelihood for success, but Results misses the mark on identifying or leveraging company personalities.   

The term `company personality' is misused.  Instead of a company 'personality', the authors appear to be more accurately describing the maturity or efficacy of a company ~ which is a VERY different realm.  Said another way, the survey tool (and the book) do not describe a company's personality, they describe a company's level of dysfunction.   Results illustrates a preferred end of the efficacy spectrum labeled Healthy in which companies are said to have mature capacities for what we know are best practices for decisions, org charts, metrics, and performance infrastructure.   On the Unhealthy end are companies that have not developed similar capacities.   Results would then have us believe that all companies should aspire to become the same personality.  Herein lies the misnomer of the term `personality'.  The Healthy-Unhealthy spectrum of dysfunction offers a simplistic explanation of what makes a company 'work', but it is only two-dimensional.   A company's personality is THREE dimensional.   A company's personality is also founded on its core values, core beliefs, signal behaviors, its attitudes, and its vision.   

If you are looking to leverage success through understanding your company's personality, read Companies are People, Too (Fekete, 2003) instead.  This book (and tool set) offer a well rounded approach to understanding company personalities and provides a way for all company personalities to have their place - and still be successful!   Intuitively, it makes more sense to assert that all company personalities are necessary to create a diverse and creative market.   For leaders within a company, it is imperative to identify (and identify with!) the unique and salient strengths of their company's personality.    Only armed with this information can a company distinguish itself from its competitors.   

We can initiate change in business practices, but we can not inherently change a company personality - nor should we try!    The idea of changing the personality of a company would be like trying to beat gravity!   Results does offer sound, basic business lessons regarding infrastructure necessary for business success, but it does not fulfill on the promise of understanding and leveraging a company's personality to get there.  
