Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child have never been known for installing a sense of reality in their stories. You have to suspend disbelief in order to truly enjoy their tales. But Brimston crosses a line that should never be crossed. The story is so far-fetched, so totally unbelieveable that it just becomes intolerable for the reader. 

Agents Pendergast and officer D'Agosta are back to solve yet another mysterious crime. This time, people are combusting into flames. There is no clue at the crime scene save for different images burnt into the walls next to the victims and traces of brimstone found in and around the victims. Soon enough, the  devil is being suspected. 

As the crimes put the city in a fury, the agents are sent to Italy to investigate one of their prime suspects. As they keep putting themselves in iffy situation, people seem to be out to get them. Soon enough, the agents become the hunted. And the race for time begins.

The premise itself is promising, but the characters always get themselves out of situation in such ridiculous ways that you just stop enjoying yourself after a while. As our agents are held captive with their hands tied, their eyes bandaged and guns pointed at their backs, one of them just happens to have a nice little set of tools sown in the hem of his shirt. So he uses it to free himself. And this isn't even the most ridiculous scene in the novel. 

And as you get close to the end, instead of building, the momentum just seems to halt for nearly 75 pages. When the story takes some steam again, you're just not interested anymore. And the story also reveals a very unnecessary subplot that takes place in New York City while our agents are in Italy that brings nothing whatsoever to the story at hand. Why include that in your novel? Why drage your story for nearly 800 pages when a third of it just sets you back and kills the momentum?

Preston and Child can write good thrillers. Their books are usually breathless and fun. But Brimstone suffers from the less is more syndrome. Everything is so overblown and out of context that I just couldn't enjoy the ride, no matter how hard I tried. Maybe the authors should concentrate more on plot points to give us something tighter and more thrilling.
