It's World War I. There's death and dispair and darkness everywhere and yet amidst all the anguish, there comes the tale of two lovers and their sad struggle to live a complete life. It's the daring anti-war classic from the late great Ernest Hemmingway- A Farewell to Arms!

Sounds pretty promising, huh? Let's see how it REALLY is.

First things first, the Lovers-
Fred Henry is an American in the Italian army. He begins the story feeling rather mildly about the war and life in general until he accidentally falls in love and things begin to change. He is a totally self-absorbed, unsympathetic dick. He narrates the story and yet somehow we get little insight into any of his deeper emotions or motives. I literally hated him by the end.
Catherine Barkley is a beautiful English nurse who Henry falls for. She's still healing from her last lovers death when she meets him. At first she seems like she might turn out to be at least somewhat intresting, but the hope vanishes everytime she opens her mouth. She is  shallow, moronic, ridiculous, and one of the most unrealistic and dislikable females characters I've ever read. Henry, however, falls desperately in love with her and her thick head of blond hair.

Next we have the plot-
As you know, it's WWI. Things aren't going so well. Henry mets Catherine. Henry gets injured and falls in love with Catherine. They spend almost all their time remarking how "sweet" and "fine" the other is and reassuring eachother they're really in love. Then they have some sex and Catherine gets pregnant. Henry cares somewhat. He's then forced to go back to war, however, but not before Catherine tells him she feels like a whore when he takes her to a hotel. This is the only intresting thing she ever says but she quickly retracts the statement as to not upset dear, darling Henry. Yadda, yadda, yadda. Henry deserts the army. This is one of the few exciting parts. Unfortunately, though, Henry soon goes back to Catherine. This is where is book takes a turn for the worst. The lovers breifly share happiness until Catherine has her baby, the baby dies and at last Catherine dies. Tragic. 

My Opinion-
The book is dull. When Catherine died I was just glad the book was over. The prose in this novel is some of the most boring and terse I've ever read. The dialouge is some of the most irriating. Between Henry's emotionless "Yes", "No"s, and "All right"s and Catherine's pointless, opinionless chatter, I'm not sure how anyone could be grabbed or moved in the slightest. Neither character had much going for them and I couldn't care less about their miserable fates. Hemmingway could have turned this into something so much better if only he gave his readers some likeable people who we could love and relate to. I don't know about the rest of you, but I thought his was the biggest waste of an idea ever. Cheers
