Ariel Sharon is the perfect example of tragedy of Israeli political culture in which men who prove themselves on the battlefield are then wrongly believed to be qualified to be national leaders.  Sharon is widely believed to be Israel's greatest battlefield commander.  He created the fighting spirit Israel was famous for in the 1950's and 60's by his formation of the well-known Unit 101.  Instead of retiring to a well-deserved rest and chance to provide for his family, his arrogance led him to enter Israeli politics.  From here, his character flaws of dishonesty and lack of values began to take their toll on Israeli public life.  First, he became one of the founders of the right-wing Likud party in 1973, but by the time the 1977 elections came around, he had left it and founded a left-wing party committed to an independent Palestinian state, which was rejected at that time by the Leftist Labor Party.  Since Menachem Begin won the election instead of the incumbent Labor Party, he veered to the Right again and joined the cabinet, becoming champion of the settlement movemend in the Judea/Samaria/Gaza territories taken in the 1967 war.  However, Begin decided to give away the Sinai, so Sharon was put in charge of destroying the Jewish communities there, so he was appointed Defense Minister and carried this out.  Right after this, he launched Israel on its Lebanese mis-adventure.  Forced out of office as a result of it, he lowered his profile and built an alliance with Labor leaders Shimon Peres who ostensibly was on the other side of the fence politically, but that did not prevent these two from collaborating quietly.  When the opportunity for Sharon came to become Prime Minister, he suddenly announced that the destruction of the Jewish communities in the Sinai was "a mistake".  This helps propel him to the Prime Minister's Office in 2001 by lining up support of the Right.  The Terror War of the Palestinians which started in autumn 2000 discredited the Labor Party and its Prime Minister Ehud Barak.  Sharon was elected to put an end to it, but instead, he forms a cabinet with his friend Peres and then announces that the terror really can't be stopped.  Finally, with the Pesach Night massacre in the Park Hotel in Netanya in 2002, Sharon was forced to act.  Finally, military pressure is applied and slowly the terror war is subdued.  Sharon announces during his 2003 re-election campaign that it is unthinkable to destroy the Jewish communities in the Gaza Strip as his opponent Mitzna suggests, but after being re-elected overwhelmingly on that platform, suddenly turns around, makes an alliance with the Far Left and adopts an even more radical form of Mitzna's plan.  Of course, the Left now loves Sharon since he betrayed his voters (including this reviewer who volunteered to work for his campaign), but this unbelievably cynical man is a danger to the entire Zionist enterprise.  Although the book is interesting, his habitual deceitfulness makes me wonder about the veracity of many things stated in the book.  
This book shows that he has made a great contribution to building Israel, particularly in his early days, but I hope Israelis will wake up and look for integrity in their leaders, and not just a military uniform. 
