If you believe that all men are out to get you, if you believe that all men are potential rapists, or if you believe that sex is a weapon men use to opress women, then this is the book for you! I imagine you will read the book while looking tentatively over your shoulder, fearing some evil man may pass by.

I always weigh every book I read objectively, trying to find a balance and see both sides of the argument. However, Andrea Dworkin makes this an impossible task for any sensible and rational person.

Even a cursory inspection of this book will make it a glaring certainty that the themes here are paranoia, hate, and fear. If you believe the psychotic rantings of Andrea Dworkin, all men hate all women (this isn't a negotiable idea), and sex couldn't possibly be an act that a woman might consensually enjoy with a man. No, if you believe the ravings of this madwoman, all men are rapists that use sex to "keep women in their place". No woman ever "really" wants to have sex with a man. But, alas, women are forced to have sex with men. And if a man ever sees a woman experiencing happiness, he immediately devises a way to rob her of it. Give me a break.

If you enjoy or agree with these kind of theories, don't have a penis, or are lacking common sense, then you will love this book.

It's funny how Andrea Dworkin preaches (high and blind in her lunatic ivory tower) about the need for a woman to control her own life, yet goes on to tell women that they cannot be happy with a man or enjoy sex with one, which takes away the exact choice she rages about. One thing she professes, in no uncertain terms, is that if you're a woman that does not agree with her, then you are a detriment to all woman. In the real world, we call people like her dictators.

Even more irritating than her inane diatribes, is her complete and total lack of credible evidence or argument. There are no facts, only paranoid opinions. Andrea Dworkin truly believes that the whole of the male species is out to get her.

What's really disheartening about all this is that there are so many women fighting for true equality (and not the complete subjugation men). Unfortunately, paranoia is contagious, and a few other women have turned to this sort of radical feminism. Studies have shown, time and again, that the vast majority of these radical feminists have been either raped or molested at some point in their lives. So it's safe to say that these women are extremely biased, provide no evidence of any kind, and make up blatant lies to support their "cause". And yet they purport to speak for all women. It's clear that these women, just like Andrea Dworkin, are the real detriment to women everywhere.

But I'm not worried. Most women, like myself, still love men, and will continue to ignore the ravings of the lunatic fringe. And that makes the radicals madder than anything.

I can't believe I wasted 2 hours of my life reading this ridiculous drivel
