I just finished reading the three books "An Assembly Such as This", "Duty and Desire" and "These Three Remain" by Pamela Aidan.

After completing the first novel in the series, I looked forward to what this second might bring.  I was most seriously disappointed in the performance.  

First, Aidan forgets that Austen was NOT a fan of the gothic novel.  Austen's "Northanger Abbey" was a parody (at times) of this genre.  Her characters in her other works have survived and are beloved for the very reason that they are so 'real', and do not require extraordinary circumstances or fabricated events in order to shine and reveal who they are.  Aidan on the other hand appears to revel in the gothic genre and to take it seriously, applying it wholeheartedly to the world of Austen, where, in my opinion, it has no business.

Aidan so deviates from the spirit of Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" that I found myself impatient with the absurd circumstances she placed Mr. Darcy.  The small, engaging (and believable) 'mystery' of his valet, Fletcher (introduced in the first novel), was eclipsed by the outrageous and unbelievable events of this second novel.  Forgetting the source of the attraction Austen's fans (the most likely readers of her books) have to Pride and Prejudice, Aiden abandons herself to this other-worldly world of intrigue, politics, a sinister castle, blood, fear and unwieldy passions. 

I found myself impatient with how this novel and its events reflected back on the world of the Bennet's.  The Bennets and Hertfedshire had no place in the world described in this novel.  So much was this the case that one could not fathom that Elizabeth and Darcy even shared the same planet.

While I understand Aiden's purpose was most likely to show that Mr. Darcy was dissatisfied with his life and the people he met in his usual circles, so different from the country where Elizabeth and his heart rested, I feel that Aiden did more to damage Mr. Darcy's character than to reveal it.  

I say without hesitation that though I enjoyed the first novel, I despised this second.  I have no dislike for the gothic genre, enjoying Jane Eyre as much as other novels of the time, but its just not a good fit either with Austen's characters, or the world in which Austen lived and attempted to recreate for her readers.  Aidan would have done much better to have revealed new characters and situations that would show Mr. Darcy's character in the course of his 'every day life' than how he reacts to being in a sinister castle with danger all around.
