Two doctors may administer identical procedures and medications, but it still matters if one cares about the patient while the other does not.  I sense that this book regards religion as an important phenomenon and a curiosity of the human spirit and social evolution, but it resists suggesting that religion gives truth about physical reality, the human spirit, or the supernatural.  It treats the religious experience more as replacing reality than as giving a deeper understanding of it.  The author seems to know his topic but not befriend it.  Without that discouragement I would at least have kept the book for my coffee table.  A book on world religions could much better credit humanity's effort, and even success, in seeking and knowing reality beyond the tangible universe, the nature of existence, and ultimate purpose.

These introductory statements, provided as samples, caused me some concern about the precision and attitude of the book.  Both come from the author's preface, page 8, "Matters of Life and Death":

"Originally, there was no belief that there would be a worthwhile life after death."  Where does "originally" fall, historically?  That is not stated.  Even Neanderthal man buried his dead with religious ritual.  Does this statement claim also to understand that ancient mind?

"Hindus can put the whole of the universe into a diagram the size of a place mat, and Christians can put God into a piece of bread as small as a coin."  This was a parenthetical comment, but its tone seemed rather derrogatory, and consistent with other instances that reinforced my perception of the book.

The depth of discussion is at a usual encyclopedia level.  Schools of thought within religions are mentioned, but some important differences are vaguely blended.  For example, under Christianity, it is mentioned that many Christians have a special devotion to Jesus' mother Mary.  This tends not to be a personal difference among "many Christians," but rather a difference of schools.  One would not normally ask a Protestant, "Are you one of those Christians that emphasizes Mary?"  In this way, some information is too general to apply accurately, although the book introduces broad topics among and within religions
