       I really wanted to like this book.  Unfortunately, the author's unbridled emphasis on medicating people with mental illness against their will was a constant theme. To my astonishment one character stated, "Once we got the right information, I must say that the system worked very well for us, up to a point: patients rights.  Patients' rights often clash with what's best for a mentally ill person."  I think every American (smokers, drinkers, eaters, authors) has the right to make bad decisions. To suggest that people with mental illnesses are somehow less entitled to the rights afforded to us by the constitution is abominable especially since the author uses an underground railroad sub-theme.  One more example of the author's insensitivity to people who are not like her is when she discusses how non-Latino doctors hire Latina receptionists so they can get more business from the receptionist's friends and family.  The stereotyped implication is obvious.
      
    I found this book very stigmatizing of people with mental illness.  The "normal" characters were well-written and complex, but the characters suffering from mental illness were one-dimensional and underdeveloped and not representative of the majority of people with mental illness.  Anyone reading this book will walk away thinking that people with mental illnesses were all violent, dangerous and childish. This book does not do anything to destigmatize mental illness. Instead of addressing serious flaws within the current medical model of mental illness and the entire mental health system, the author engages in a blaming the victim mentality or in this character's case, her brain and its alleged imbalance. After all of these years of chemical imbalance talk, there is still no evidence of a chemical imbalance causing mental illness.   

To suggest that the problem of mental illness can be solved with high doses of medications is limited at best.  It is also dangerous.  Although the author continuously touts the virtues of medications, she almost totally overlooks the problem of debilitating, and sometimes permanent side effects these medications can cause. The author alludes to these side effects in one paragraph.  The other 319 pages are like a free advertisement for big pharmaceutical companies.  Besides, a lot of those medications are only helpful to the people who interact with the mentally ill person and not the mentally ill person her/himself.  Use of certain antipsychotic medications mimics the effects of an actual physical lobotomy.  I guess the person would be easier to live with, but at what cost??  
  
I did appreciate the author's attempt to portray the plight of families that have a member with a mental illness. However,her unfettered belief that drugging people against their will is a good solution to a complex and complicated illness was a big turnoff. I think that in 100 years the mass drugging of American adults and children will be viewed as another sad chapter in psychiatry's attempt to legitimize itself as a science. I think someone should drug this author and put her in a mental hospital for 72 hours.
