I really wanted to love this book. It came strongly recommended by a good friend who is very interested in development work.  Whenever I read a review I always try and figure out what angle the reviewer is coming from, so for the record I'm deeply interested in development work and I have a background in economics and environmental science, but mostly I'm just really well read.

The book immediately starts off on the wrong foot when Sachs, for some reason, decides to set 1820 as the base year for determining world poverty and decides that in 1820 the world is universally poor and on an even playing field. In doing so, he ignores European colonization of virtually all of South America, All of North America, and most of Africa and the resulting poverty that occurred among the indigenous populations as they were thrown off the best plots of land. He brushes aside the argument that colonization had a great deal to do with the rapid development of the west by pointing out that the colonies economies grew even during colonization. This is true, however, there's a reason for that: the colonizers had installed local populations. Some of the money was staying put, the vast majority was going to the "mother country." He also cites longevity statistics (40 years in Western Europe) and says that applies globally and says that disease was a major problem. Prior to the European settlement of the America's the people were taller, and lived longer than their European counterparts. They also didn't have any of the Western Diseases (small pox, measles etc) because they lacked beasts of burden and the population density of Western Europe. Anyone who starts off a book playing fast and loose with History and with Economic theory can't be trusted to create an accurate model; and it's true. His model is riddle with flaws that other reviewers have pointed out. People like his theories because it absolves them of developed world guilt and makes the solution seem easy without much in the way of self-sacrifice. Like too many economic models, however, reality and the ideal are not the same
