I do get annoyed when a book's title does not reflect what the book is about. The writer did not use his mathematics in any way so I find it misleading to say, a mathematician plays the stock market.


In this case this book is actually two separate books twisted into one. 

The first book is of a guy moaning about his loss on the stock market and how unfair and dishonest the market can be. Annoyingly the figure that he lost is not specified, but I suspects its not that much!

It is quite clear that the writer did not 
1) Ask any reputable person who had any experience in the share market  for advise
2) He did not read any book on the stock market to help him make his selection
3) He did no research on the company


The other book is a discussion of varies models of the stock market, some of which are mathematical in part. These models are reasonably well explained in a very simple way but if they don't fit into the writers preconceived ideal they are quickly eliminated. For example part of William Buffet success, the book claims is because people follow his lead.  Something that is quite difficult to do, as what Buffet's buys is not released. He has a special deal with the US goverment that allows him not to release the information. Peter Lynch's success is noted but no explanation is given, its just brushed aside.

Now let us say he had listened to some of these theories he so arrogantly rejected. Some that spring to mind are 

1)The fundamental theories would have told him that WorldCOM was overpriced
2)The technical analysis theories would have told him that its going down.
3) Almost all books would have told him to diverse his stock and not stick to one share.
I am sure there are more.

I have been involved in the stock market for many years and it is a subject that I know something about. In my experience stock market is risky. For every winner there is at least one loser. For every big winner generally there are a few losers.  The successful ones do study the stock market in detail and they depend upon substantial understanding of the share market system but knowledge is not enough, you need something else as well. If it was simply knowledge and easy, then arrogant inexperienced fools like this writer who are obviously extremely intelligent would have made money instead of losing it
