I actually did buy and read the book, as it seems many here in the review section did not.  I did so because I'm very interested in biography and memoir as a genre, and because I thought Anna Nicole Smith was an interesting example of the blonde bombshell archetype.

Upon reading the book, what I discovered is that the author is still in a state of confusion as to how she feels about her half-sister, as is, apparently, the whole family.  It must be noted that Donna Hogan reveals some awful truths about Anna Nicole's father:  that he was a child molester, child abuser, and torturer of animals, all signs of a sociopathic personality.  The fallout was horrible--all of the family wounded and in a state of anger, hurt, and confusion.  And though Donna Hogan doesn't reveal much about Anna Nicole's mother, she does include Virgie's birth date, which would make Virgie a teenager when she gave birth to Anna.  Clearly, Anna Nicole had an absolutely god-awful childhood.  So when we've seen Anna's family members go on television and claim that everything was hunky dory and the real problem was "Vickie," clearly they are not telling the truth--or they are too embroiled in the mess to see the truth.  The family was dysfunctional with a capital "D" and Anna Nicole did miraculously well to get out and become a success on any level.

Which brings us back to Donna Hogan.  My heart goes out to her.  Unlike her half-sister Anna Nicole, Donna couldn't escape the horrific mess that was her family and she has struggled to overcome their painful legacy.  Like a child of abusers, she on the one hand claims that the family was dysfuctional, and on the other she claims that Anna "abandoned" them.  She on the one hand claims that the family is respectable and not "trailer trash," and on the other hand gives reason after reason that it is.  She contradicts herself over and over throughout the book.  It's pretty clear that Donna simply hasn't sorted it all out yet and I think at the bottom of it she was angry with Anna for having the ability to leave the family when she herself has not.  

Of course the sad thing for Anna Nicole Smith is that, though she physically left her abusive family, she carried a lot of pain around with her all her life.  The prescription drug use makes absolute sense in light of her horrific background.  And I imagine that when Anna's mother accused her and Howard Stern of having a hand in killing her son Daniel, Anna Nicole had about as much as she could take.  Why continue on in a world where your own mother was capable of such cruelty?  For me, her mother's accusation was the nail in Anna Nicole's coffin.

Finally, I was absolutely gob-smacked that Donna Hogan would call her own sister a "train wreck."  She claims in her book that she was deeply hurt that Anna Nicole left her.  Would you stay in touch with a sister who calls you a "train wreck"?

I think that one day Donna will sort out her feelings about Anna and her family, but that today it's still a jumble of anger, hurt, and confusion.  When she does sort it out, I think she might realize that she did a hurtful thing in writing this book with the scathingly critical tone she did.  I hope that she gets away completely from her "family."  Too bad her sister wasn't able to ever truly get away
