In a historical novel, I look for immersion in another place and time, and involvement with characters that I can care about. For me, Trent has not succeeded in either of these areas.

Although the author has a good grasp of our sketchy historical knowledge of the events in Alexandria in the early fifth century, I don't get the sense that he has done much research on the broader history of this fascinating time -- to say nothing of the geography. The basics are all in place: the brilliant philosopher Hypatia, the Great Library, the religious turmoil, the tension between church and state. But there's little in the way of detail to give you the sense of being there, and as often as not the detail is wrong. For example, the desert ascetics did not wear brown (the pagan sources are full of vilification of black-robed monks). Governors and bishops travelled in carriages with large retinues, not alone in chariots like characters from "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum." (The "chariot" used by Hypatia is more likely to have been something like a sulky.) And no one ever met a woman by being asked to dance, because the Romans did not engage in social dancing. As for the geography, I'm still trying to figure out how you can get a view of the Nile from the western wall of Alexandria, which itself lies west of the delta -- and Antioch was certainly not in Persia!

Trent's writing is fluid enough, and occasionally there's a vivid and memorable image, but he has a poor ear for diction and often chooses words that are jarring or even incorrect. For instance, from a scene where a minor character visits her husband's grave: "She descended the broken steps to the fence. _What am I doing?_ she screamed." (The underscores signify italics, which the author uses for characters' thoughts.) "Screamed" hardly seems the word to express inner doubts, but it's typical of the clumsy way in which Trent tries to inject life into his characters.

Indeed, we spend far too much time in the heads of the characters as they verbalize their thoughts and feelings. Not only does this fail to bring them to life (it mostly just makes them annoying); it also slows the pace of the action to a crawl.

Hypatia herself is an uneasy mixture of intellectual, political, and emotional ingredients that never coalesce into a character we can care deeply about. Indeed, the book as a whole never makes up its mind whether it's a novel of ideas or a romance, as the perspective shifts between the major players  discussing philosophy, religion, and politics, and various love affairs or infatuations. 

Many of the problems of this book could have been cleared up by a good editing, but as is too often the case these days, that stage of production seems to have been skipped. (How else would we see "palate" for "palette" and "reigns" for "reins"?) As it is, we have an ambitious effort by someone who simply lacks the writing skills to carry it off.
