I really hate to criticize another man's work, but when buying a book is involved, the reader should know what he's getting into before he invests his time & money in it.  That being said, I think Mr. Bower put a lot of time and effort into this book, and it shows with the numerous first-rate sources he quotes from.  Unfortunately, the story itself could have been presented in a more user-friendly manner.  I found the first 100-150 pages fascinating--I had no idea how sympathetic the Swiss were with the Nazis and how they turned their backs on the Nazis' victims.  What was even more appaling was the Swiss behavior after the war: refusing to give back the looted money, heirless assets or even acknowledge they did anything wrong.  But the 50 years between the war's end and the book's end could be summed up in one sentence:  people asked the Swiss to right their wartime wrongs and the Swiss refused.  Maybe it's because I never cared for legal dramas but it just seemed like he went on and on, page after page of American accusations and Swiss denials.  It made the book a difficult read and not something I looked forward to opening again.  At the same time it is a little biased--it is told primarily from the "crusaders'" point of view.  Very rarely does he flesh out Switzerland's position or make enough distinction that this was mostly a crime of the Swiss Bankers and not the Swiss Government or the citizens themselves.  Even so, it is difficult to have any pity for the Swiss after reading this, and you will cringe anytime you hear the words "Swiss neutrality."  The Swiss were hardly neutral in the war.  However, the book did have one positive side--by the time you get to the last chapter you are so frustrated that you are genuinely mad at the Swiss and feel a personal sense of justice when they are willing to own up to their actions.  Unfortunately the book ends abruptly and you don't get a true feeling of resolution...but at the same time I'm glad I learned a lot about this often-forgotten chapter of the 20th century.  However, I think there are many other books on the subject that should be looked at first...with all due respect to the author
