This book annoyed me.  To start my diatribe, there were too many characters, each and every one one of whom seemed illogical, stupid, and not at all endearing.  And a "paranormal" branch of the mounties?  I thought it was supposed to be a fantasy affecting real people of this world, not a fantasy affecting another fantasy. 

One gets the idea that the author tried to explain what was happening to the readers, but ended up explaining things to the characters instead which is why one can never believe it when the characters are disbelieving.  I can never believe it when the characters do anything, actually. I don't understand how anybody's brains could function like that.  Their thought processes are just absurd.  

The protaginist needs to stop smoking, because she seems to roll a new cigarette in every sentance she inhabits.  The hard-boiled investigator should take a look at what his girlfriend puts in his dinner because he accepts the unacceptable (at least for a hard-boiled investigator) with unblinking reserve.  The male lead needs to stop speaking and thinking (!) in French because he is not, and the eccentric millionaire uncle needs to borrow some of the protaginist's ciggarettes and Calm Down.  The only character I liked even remotely was the biker art critic, but I think the author was trying a little too hard to be clever when Blue was born.

It's also very confusing the way the plot jumps around and goes backwards and forwards between the thirty some characters (all of whom, I must mention again, are really annoying).  It makes it hard for one to keep one's attention on the book, instead of just going over one's grocery list whilst staring at the page.  Looks like deLint has done some time travelling too.  You have to excuse him, he gets mixed up.  All those quantum leaps.

And what was with all that outdated profanity?  I mean, who says "Lord lifting Jesus!" anyway?  I agree with the reviewer named bounci, those...occurances did not fit and just made me want to laugh (or cry, seeing as it doesn't stop for the entire book) instead of being shocked.

To it's credit, the book did have a very interesting story, with a lot of interesting things happening.  It had good suspense (when it doesn't ramble hopelessly) and was sometimes exciting.  It does while away the hours though, and it will keep you in book while you plod through
