This would have been an interesting and original view of the problem of persistent poverty in the U.S. had it been published, oh, about thirty or thirty-five years ago.  As it is, it grossly oversimplifies a complex problem, and worse, plays to the cherished superstitions of neoconservative intellectuals and their `lumpen' readers alike.  It will probably come as a great surprise to the author, but I doubt poor black, Hispanic, and hell, even poor white kids have ever even heard of Norman Mailer, much less studied his essays in school.  It may also have escaped the author's attention that inflation whittled the value of payments from programs such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children down to a fraction of 1960's levels, even factoring in occasional cost-of-living increases-which had all but ceased starting in the 1980's.  Finally, under the impetus of a conservative Congress, the Clinton administration undertook reform of "welfare" in 1996 which included drastically tightening eligibility requirements, placing strict time limits on receipt of benefits, and actively directing recipients into jobs.  Yet poverty seems to persist despite the implementation of conservative nostrums and even more amazingly, despite a near-full employment economy at the end of the 1990's.  In other words, trying to blame everything on kids who grew their hair long in the 1960's, and vapid socialites hobnobbing with Bobby Seale at Leonard Bernstein's soirees forty years ago is not only not right-it isn't even wrong  

Meanwhile, since the Nixon administration we have conducted a "War on Drugs" that has stuffed prisons full to bursting with (mostly low level) drug dealers and users-nearly all of them minorities--but accomplished very little else. Although crime rates have in fact dropped to historically low levels, this seems to have little if any correlation with incarceration rates, which have been relentlessly rising since the 1970's.  This decrease in crime, by the way, confounded neoconservative predictions at the beginning of the 1990's that crime-allegedly inspired by our evil culture-would continue spiraling upwards without letup.  Similar decreases occurred in out-of-wedlock births, but as an old saying goes, "A lady's reputation seldom improves."  Especially when she is a member of a racial minority, I might add.  It would seem that the underclass owes very little to the 1960's counterculture, although Encounter Books-once a source of urbane and intelligent works-would probably not have taken Mr. Magnet's manuscript had he concluded as much.

Neoconservatives, it turns out, are as rigidly locked into a mindless party line as the 1960's leftists they criticize.  For example, black social scientists such as Glen Loury and William Julius Wilson were clutched to neoconservative bosoms when their research found that blacks suffered relatively little racial discrimination in hiring compared to past decades.  They were dropped like hot potatoes however when their continued investigations showed that minority unemployment had a lot more to do with factors such as the virtual disappearance of even low-skilled work from most urban areas, and the lack of transportation to exurban areas where most job growth was.  Kind of makes blaming the 1969 Woodstock festival look silly, to say the least.

There is no doubt that there is something that was once called "the culture of poverty" that inculcates some of the poor with self-defeating attitudes and behaviors.  This was already old hat by the time "London Labor and London Poor" was published during the Victorian age.  Presumably, the Victorian poor did not become or remain so because of Janet Jackson displaying her bosom on television a century later.

There are innumerable other criticisms to be made of this book starting with its confusion of drug-taking behavior among the poor (which tends to seek oblivion from hopelessness) with middle-class drug taking behavior (which is usually risk-seeking or thrill-seeking), but a complete enumeration of its mistakes, misconceptions, and half-truths would take an essay nearly as long as the book itself.  Suffice it to say that instead of being random, the errors all seem to point in a certain political direction.  Readers may conclude what they will about the author's presumed good faith from this.  Those looking for `just-so-stories' to confirm their darkest prejudices towards racial minorities and justify doing nothing will certainly find what they seek in this book.  Those looking for nuanced discussions aimed at trying to solve problems instead of finding scapegoats will have to look elsewhere
