I received this book as a gift, or I definitely would never have purchased it. It is lacking any sense of direction, as other reviews illustrate here, with obvious misses present: "The Birds", "Rosemary's Baby", "The Invisible Man", "The Black Cat"(1934), "Island of Lost Souls", "Jaws", "Curse of the Demon"(aka-Night of the Demon), "The Fearless Vampire Killers...", "Haxan-Witchcraft Through the Ages", "Invasion of the Body Snatchers", "Them!", "The Exorcist"(I'm surprised the horror geeks aren't rattling their cages about this one alone). Maybe "Psycho" wouldn't be found in a 'Monster Movie Guide', but why is "It! The Terror from Beyond Space" present and, yet, not Ridley Scott's "Alien" or its sequels? It is also very difficult to follow, with "Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein" under "M" for just "Meet Frankenstein"(perhaps this was an original title or something, but, in all the guides I've ever seen, it's always been under A & C's names), with no explanation here for why Jones uses this title. Although, on the other hand, there are several early silent versions of lots of the classic monsters-as, for example, several "Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde" versions included that predate even John Barrymore's turn as the part in 1920! Also, there are obscure but relatively important TV notations that are, often, well worth the look-as "Nightmare the Birth of Horror"(although the title actually was "Nightmare! The Birth of Victorian Horror"). These are a great find, if one can locate this BBC miniseries on the genesis of the books and characters of the classic gothic monsters-ie. Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein", Bram Stoker's "Dracula". These are a must-see for any true fan. Now, different, and refreshing, are the more subjective descriptions of film titles, with Jones using his own point of view as opposed to the standard run-of-the-mill descriptions. The downside, here, though, is that his "taste" is often lacking. I don't consider myself a fan of any particular date or style from the horror genre, but to critique FW Murnau's silent vampire film, "Nosferatu"-which is brilliant-as "overlong and dull", with a rating of above average(???), and the plodding British Hammer "Dracula(aka-Horror of Dracula)" of 1958 as having an "action-packed script"(I guess I apparently looked away for a moment), adding that it's only "a little slow in places", are simply a couple examples of Jones' consistancy for ludicrous assessments. Buyer beware: do yourself a favor and find this one used-or as cheaply as possible-and get the recent Leonard Maltin Movie Guide(released yearly, the newest has only just been released). This guide will give better direction and explanation, on a much more realistic and objective level, than Jones' book. Even Maltin's guide is not perfect, but the information is deeper(without Jones' obvious mistakes) and the ratings are much more realistic. Basically, just protect yourself from wasting time and money on one of Jones' favorites when it's really a clunker. "Creature Features" looks like a more interesting purchase, but not owning it, I won't judge. Both it and Jones' book offer obscure TV, though, with titles crossing over, like the BBC "Count Dracula" with Louis Jourdan, for example.
