Dembski's very first sentence says his goal is to write so that he cannot be misunderstood.  He fails badly, even on key issues.  Consider:  Dembski insists ID is legitimate science and emphatically denies that ID is religiously motivated.  Well, let's look at the evidence.  

Curiously enough, most of the essays and virtually all of the authors have a much stronger connection to religion than to science.  

On the religion side of the ledger, co-editor Kushiner is the editor of a religious magazine.  Dembski himself teaches at a seminary and says that if there's a designer behind biology, the designer is probably God. Nancy Pearcey's degree from a theological seminary is not in science, and her essay, like several others, included heavy doses of Christian moralizing.  Jay Wesley Richards' degree is in theology, and he says ID is a valuable resource for Christian apologetics.  John West, Jr., writes and edits religious publications.  Patrick Henry Reardon is a pastor and edits a Christian magazine.  John Mark Reynolds teaches philosophy at a Bible Institute and supports his arguments with quotes from the Bible.  Part of his essay is titled "Intelligent Design Lets God In."  Behe supplements his arguments about irreducible complexity with quotes from the Pope.  Stephen Meyer teaches philosophy at a fundamentalist college.  Jonathan Wells' own website openly proclaims his religious motivation.  Paul Nelson is a philosopher, not a scientist (though his essay on the "tautology problem," though not really relevant to the scientific validity of evolutionary biology, was actually pretty interesting).  John Wiester teaches at a Bible Institute and is a prominent member of an evangelical organization.  Walter Bradley's essay contained this quote:  "We know that nature is described by the best of all possible mathematics because God created it."  

The science side, in contrast, is very thin.  Phillip Johnson's last formal science class was in high school, over 40 years ago.  Only a mid-life, religious crisis prompted his interest in ID.  Michael Behe's contribution on irreducible complexity (IC) seems scientific enough.  Too bad both he and Dembski admitted the year after the essay was published that Behe's formulation was seriously flawed.  (Which makes the several other contributors' statements about the "massive evidence" for IC look that much dumber.)  (For more info on Behe's Blunder, see my review of "Darwin's Black Box.")  Wells' chapter mentions scientific issues, but his arguments for ID are based exclusively on analogies and negative arguments, neither of which constitutes affirmative evidence for ID.  DeHaan is a psychologist and Wiester has only a bachelor's degree, and that's in geology.  Putting their essay on the Cambrian Explosion on the "science" side of the ledger is a pure gift, since much of what they said was just unbelievable gibberish.  (Species should precede phyla???  There should be intermediates between living species???  New phyla should constantly be emerging???  These people are ID-iots!)  Plus, all their arguments were negative arguments against evolution, and, obviously, such arguments do nothing to support ID.  Putting Bradley's essay on the "science" side of the ledger is also a gift, since it amounted to nothing more than pure speculation about cosmology, an area in which Bradley, a materials scientist and engineer, listed no qualifications.  Listing Dembski's essay as science is also a gift, since it dealt with information theory, an area in which Dembski lists no qualifications.  Also, most of his arguments were mere analogies, and analogies are not evidence.  Also, he relied very heavily on Behe's IC.  In fact, since Dembski also proclaimed that "ID readily embraces the sacramental nature of physical reality.  Indeed, ID is just the Logos theology of John's Gospel restated in the idiom of information theory" (191) I think Dembski's essay should be re-assigned to the religion side.  Bruce Gordon, a philosopher of physics, displays his cluelessness about biology by gushing over IC.  Gordon's cluelessness is also reflected in his assertion that the McLean court's definition of "science" was a "put-up job" by evos.  If Gordon had bothered to read the trial transcript, he would have found that the creationists completely agreed with that definition.  In fact, as the May 2005 curriculum hearings in Kansas showed, most ID-iots still use the McLean definition!  How can that possibly be evos' fault???

Weighing the relative amounts of religion and science, religion obviously predominates by a very wide margin.  No wonder so many of the favorable reviews focused on religious issues.  So again, if Dembski's goal was to demonstrate ID's scientific nature, he failed miserably.  

Also interesting was Dembski's claim that he was "startled" about how evos misunderstand ID as implying skill in design, or even perfection.  According to Dembski, "intelligence" actually means "nothing more than being the result of an intelligent agent, even one who acts stupidly."  Hmmm.  God isn't dead after all, just stupid.  That's reassuring.  

In any case, there's no justification for blaming evos for misunderstanding ID's position on perfection, since the misinformation comes from ID's own textbooks.  The most widely used textbook is "Of Pandas and People" (see my review of "Pandas"), currently the focus of litigation in Dover, PA.  Pandas' authors take great pains to document the exquisite skill, i.e., perfection, of their examples of biological design.  

Since the people who contributed to Pandas did such a horribly botched job -- Intelligence implies skill?  Ridiculous!  --  maybe Dembski would prefer that we simply ignore those poor, misguided fools.  Sound reasonable?  Well, the contributors to Pandas include such misguided fools as Nancy Pearcey, Michael Behe, John Weister, Stephen Meyer, and Walter Bradley!  

Dembski also rails about how dogmatic evos are, and he stresses how necessary it is for scientists to remain tentative about their theories.  But Meyer teaches at a school that requires its faculty to swear an oath to maintain Christian beliefs.  Is that an example of being tentative?  And Dembski himself recently demonstrated his own open-mindedness by proclaiming that he would never abandon his faith in ID, regardless of the evidence.  

And that's why we call them ID-iots. 
