I first read A WALKER IN THE CITY as an adolescent, and the book impressed me, in that mysterious way that things that we know "should" impress us can do.

I re-read WALKER as an adult and, by modern standards, I think that it is overrated.

It is long and rambling and self-indulgent.

By rights, A WALKER IN THE CITY should have resonated for me, since my own father had grown up in Brownsville, exactly the same neighborhood that author Alfred Kazin describes, and at virtually the same time.

Yet I found little about Brownsville in this dreary memoir; it simply explores the rather maudlin sentiments of the young Kazin. Swifty Lazar, the late literary agent who was renowned for representing men of letters, as opposed to being a man of letters himself, had offered a far more compelling description of life in that same Brownsville in his own memoir.

No, WALKER only is about Kazin and his adolescent imagination, his theories about those who lived in places other than Brownsville (to wit, "the city") and about his personal (and intensely idiosynchratic, if not peculiar) yearnings.

There are points in which he uses Yiddish without offering a translation, and even a section in which he lapses into high-school French, again with no translation. His use of language often seems strained and self-conscious, such as using the word "plash" as--I think--a synonym for "splash."

Insofar as much of the book had been printed in contemporary magazines as essays, the format here has cobbled together several essays into a memoir. In consequence, this memoir could have used better editing, since things that are fully explained on their first mention do not need the identical explanations further into the book; such styling would be reasonable in a series of magazine pieces, but not in a volume offered as a cohesive work.

I cannot help wondering whether A WALKER IN THE CITY, first published in 1946, would be as enthusiastically received if it first saw print today. It strikes me as the literary equivalent of the Emperor's new clothes
