When I review DRAWING books, the first question I ask is, "Is this for BEGINNERS?" Because I feel an obligation to the book buyer to provide good information, and also to prevent a beginning student from being discouraged, and feeling that they are defective, or ....just cannot get it. 

It does not seem to occur to the buyer that many authors just cannot teach. Instinct seems to suggest that that if book gets published, it must contain credible instruction by someone who knows how to teach, and everyone seems to desire to cash in on the Big Bucks market of HOW-TO-DRAW. It may seem surprising that this is just not so. Perhaps as many as half of all drawing books are not very good for beginners. I know. I've gotten familiar with most of the books on the market, and I know what I'm looking for in good instruction. 



Allen Kraayvanger's  book "Figure Drawing Workshop"  contains a chapter on "Anatomy", and in those 18 or 19 pages there are a couple of  pages listing and illustrating the muscles of the human body.  Unfortunately,  of the many figure drawings illustrating Kraayvanger's book,  almost none of them show articulated musculature,  because Kraayvanger,  draws perfectly outlined figures only to fill in the space with monochrome shading, and inadquate use   (or none at all)   of good lines.   Lines and shading together make for clarity in figure drawing. To just skip the lines and resort only to shading to define features is substandard.  Kraayvanger skips on MECHANICS, and emphasizes the AESTHETICS, which is a refinement that a beginner shouldn't be troubled with.

   Kraayvanger seems to be a graduate of the "FUZZY  ARTICULATION" SHOOL-OF-ART. 

   The publisher is to be noted here.  WATSON-GUPTILL PUBLICATIONS has sent to press several books on figure drawing that have come under my survey lately, and none of them seems to measure up.  Either their editors do not know good drawing instruction, or they are simply holding themselves to a lower standard of quality. 

    This method of instruction entirely puzzled me.  The same method, of using completed and perfectly finished drawings is used by some authors,  whose books   I rate consistently low.  I owe a debt to a reviewer  of another  figure drawing book for supplying the concept for this manner of teaching.  He called  it,  "INVISIBLE PROBLEM SOLVING":

   "He does not solve problems 'visibly',  he never lets you know how he got the results he did." -from an anonymous Amazon review 
   
  

    There is no use of SIMPLIFIED FIGURETTES of any consequence in this book, no HONEGUMI SKELETONS,  BLOCK FIGURES, or HUMAN PUPPETS.  (another indication that Kraayvanger skips on the MECHANICS);  That's  Invisible Problem Solving.   Therefore,  this INVISIBLE PROBLEM SOLVING style of teaching is more of a hindrance to learning than a helpful instruction.  There are no shortcuts in learning to draw the figure.  Kraayvanger may as well write,  "Draw well, or just don't draw!"  as to infer that a student should attempt to duplicate his finished drawings.  Kraayvanger should master drawing prior to teaching it. 

 The cover price of $19.95 is grossly exorbitant, even when its already reduced by Amazon from a rip-off list price of $24.95.  You can purchas Jack Hamm's  "Drawing the Head & Figure" for only $9.56 and besides,  there are 30 or 40 year old Dover editions of drawing books for under $7 or $8.

    "Workshop" as a title term used by Kraayvanger is misleading, since he is skipping the MECHANICS. His illustrations are not "working drawings". A "workshop" is a bit of a casual endeavour. New and variant ideas can be tried and played with, erased and drawn over. .  That isn't what Kraayvanger's book is all about.  Kraayvanger employs a gimmick word that turns out to be empty of meaning
