O.K. so this little gem of a novel gets two stars instead of the dreaded one star of doom simply because the author was courageous enough to pair up the strangest duo ever to grace the pages of a buddy cop mystery--Edgar Allan Poe and Davy Crockett. Implausable, yes, but potentially entertaining. Heck, the book opens with Poe giving Crockett's autobiography a bad review in the paper and the infamous bar killer showing up at his house to pound him. Now THAT'S good story. But it quickly devolves into a simple murder mystery with Davy stomping around and beating his chest and Poe acting like a simpering, ready-to-faint-at-any-moment Sherlock Holmes. And the prose in which this is all written--let me tell you, the prose will kill you. Narrated by Poe himself, the gothic author apparently thought and spoke in the same flowery and adjective abundant speech that he used in his stories. Mr. Schechter knows that his prose is stilted and mind-numbing and pokes fun at it a few times as Edgar tells something to a simple Bostonian in a hundred words or less, and the poor vicim of his verbage scratches his head and says, "What did you say?" This is close to clever and close to amusing as a literary device but the device becomes extremely old after about thirty pages and the book is, unfortunately, three hundred pages long. You can sit through reading the King James Bible in Ye Olde English easier than sitting through this mess. And counterpointing the affectation of Poe's word choice is the gosh darn down home Tennessee hillbilly speech of Davy Crockett, making the poles of this book even more extreme and pointing out how ridiculous it truly is. Going from "Hark, what be this tintinabulation" to "Them bells is chimin' somethin' fierce" in the same paragraph is, to put it mildly, maddening. Sure, a few Poe fans will relish the many allusions to his work and recognize familiar phrases and descriptions word for word from his poems and stories, but I just thought it made it corny. And I am sure there is some Monday Night Football scholar who is patting himself on the back for making it through this literary masterpiece and thinking it the most high brow thing since Lowenbrau, but fancy words don't make for real lit. Like I said in the opening, this is nothing more than a very odd buddy cop mystery. And it is a bad one at that. After slogging through this stinker, you too may be wondering where you can get some Balm of Gilead to sooth your throbbing head
