I'm a sucker for these "social satire" type novels, especially when they skewer the rich pretentious people in New York City for whom only the Ivys are good enough and who start with the fierce competition in preschool.

This book sounded like it would deliver that, but unfortunately, it bored me.  I was never really clear on why Laura wanted to be involved in this mess in the first place.  She is presented as having good, solid values, but she gets caught up in the competition madness anyway.  Which she admits, but then her claims to be somehow "better" or have "more common sense" than the other characters do not stand up to scrutiny.

But then there was the book itself...boring.  A major mystery revolves around who kills a hamster.  Could there be a sociopath-in-the-making, some "evil" young child who is a hamster-murderer?  Which children attend therapy?  Could a child have some awful disorder that would make him or her do this?  Obviously, since the hamster-killer will be rejected from the exclusive school, it is imperative to find out just who wrung the hamster's neck, and as soon as possible.  Competitive parents are trying to lock other children out of the prestigious school by falsely accusing other children of hamster-murder.

I mean, come on.  Could this happen?  I suppose so.  Is it funny or satirical?  No.  It's not portrayed well enough to be funny, and it's much too l-o-n-g and drawn out to be good satire.  I got really tired of hearing about the darned hamster.  Maybe the point is that these parents will freak out about everything, but unfortunately, the reader gets dragged through a bunch of "is it him?  is it her?  will my child be falsely accused?" hamster-murder BS until I was thoroughly sick of the whole thing.  It seems to me that good satire is not boring, but boy, is this preoccupation boring.

When we finally find out who killed the hamster and why, I was completely underwhelmed.  I didn't care about anyone at that point.

Of course there are the requisite "secrets" about the upper-crust parents, but I'm afraid they bored me as well.

I'm learning the hard way that just because a novel is described as satire, and the situation sounds very interesting, that does NOT make it good reading.  I'm having a similar struggle getting through Claire Messud's latest, but I will try it again.  

Satire should be interesting, and the fact that so many authors fall back on the Candide device (wide-eyed innocent observing a bunch of weirdos) is getting extremely tiresome.  Especially when Candide compromises her principles to be part of the popular crowd and then has an unrealistic "revelation" at the end.

Please, give me Edith Wharton any day over this
