The 9/11 commission report should be found in the fiction section of your local book store.  

The current US administration has no qualms about "creating its own reality" and this is the most perfect example of this practice.  It was crafted to ignore any and all evidence that contradicted their fabricated "reality" and then used the conclusions of this report to support the current foreign policy.  I urge you to do your own research and not blindly believe what this report tells you. 

Here are only a few of the many examples that prove that the 9/11 commission report lacks any credibility:

1.  NORAD changed their story about their actions on 9/11 significantly at least three times.  The report (or NORAD) does not examine or give any explanation why this happened.  In any case it is standard NORAD procedure to intercept a jet anywhere in the US within 10 minutes of a possible aircraft problem and yet none were intercepted in the 80 minutes following the first confirmed hijacking.  The report does not examine why standard procedure was not followed. It also claims there were no NORAD flights until after the pentagon strike.  Why not?    

2.  Several of the "hijackers" are still alive and have been interviewed by the BBC claiming that their passports were stolen, and the report makes no mention of this fact.

3.  The book claims that the WTC towers had "a hollow steel shaft, in which elevators and stairwells were grouped".  This is outrageously false as the buildings had 47 massive steel central columns to support the building.

4.  World Trade Center Building 7 completely collapsed at virtually free fall speed and yet this building is not even mentioned anywhere in the report.  This building was the third in history to completely collapse due to fire in history.  The other two were the WTC twin towers which also collapsed near the speed of gravity.  Straight-down collapse at free fall speed is scientifically impossible unless controlled demolition is employed.  The fundamental law of physics "conservation of momentum" proves this fact.    

5.  The report blatantly ignored prolific eyewitness testimony of multiple explosions in the WTC towers.  This includes an explosion in the North Tower basement before it was struck by a plane.  This event was tape recorded in a nearby office meeting along with dozens of eye witness reports.  The testimony to this fact was simply ignored and left out of the report by the commission.  See also the firefighter tapes that were blocked from being released to the public for years by the government as well as news footage from the day in question.  In the entire report the word "explosion" is not encountered one single time.

6.  The report also fails to mention that Marvin Bush (brother of the President), was in charge of security at not only the WTC complex, but Dulles international airport and United airlines.  The report fails to reveal who was involved in the massive insider trading just a few days before the attacks took place, only to claim that they had "nothing to do with Al Qaeda".  

Philip Zelikow, the author of this report and executive director of the 9/11 commission is a member of the current administration, a close friend of Condoleezza Rice, and a co-author of the current terrorism policy "Catastrophic Terrorism: Elements of a National Policy".  Could there be a bigger conflict of interest here?  Need anything else be said?  

In conclusion, it's not worth the paper it is printed on.
 
Anyone who still takes this report seriously should read:
Dr. David Ray Griffin - "911 Commission Report: Omissions and Distortions"

Dr. Steven E. Jones - "Why indeed did the World trade center buildings completely collapse?"

Or watch these videos (currently available for free on Google video):

"Improbable Collapse: The Demolition of our Republic"

"9/11 Press for Truth"

"911 Mysteries - Demolitions
