Whenever I buy a another book in an effort to unravel the Paint Shop Pro program I have yet to conquer, I have great expectations that this new one will answer the questions that plague me. I have searched through the help menu offered by the Paint Shop Pro 8, but need more visual aids.

I paged through Paint Shop Pro 8, Fast and Easy, having ordered it online, going from chapter to chapter to see what problems are addressed in each part of the book, in more detail than was available online. I am already to Chapter 15 and still haven't come to the one area that is causing me trouble, editing and pasting from one raster image to another. Plenty of pages are allocated to vector images, but my goal in purchasing this book was simply to create a variety of collaged images, most of which would require raster images.

If you are looking for information of text applications, Chapter 15-17 offers a variety of options, although none are particularly sophisticated or original, leaving you to experiment for more creative effects. By Chapter 17, we are on Web Page Components and I still haven't found a useful discussion of editing/pasting raster layers. (I realize that if you are a serious graphic artist, you won't even consider this book or this particular program. )

Another issue that is relevant for me and not addressed is print resolution. I did look for solutions to setting the appropriate number of DPIs to the print an acceptable image, but there is little material on this issue. If the image has been saved as  JPEG or GIF, the image resolution lost cannot be recovered by changing printer settings. There seems to be an assumption that most are using Paint Shop Pro 8 for web images because there is virtually no information relative to printing problems or how to control the quality of the printed image. 

I was told that most problems can be traced to user error, but I think that the majority of these books make certain assumptions about the user, in the same manner that programmers fail to consider different levels of understanding on the part of the user. Perhaps the problem is in the program, rather than the attempts to provide answers, such as offered in this book. In any case, both are a disappointment. Luan Gaines/2004.
