I've always looked upon "Christian" fiction with a rather wary eye.  It has less to do with the subject matter than the lesser quality of these works; it's as if the publishers cynically assumed that merely presenting something as "Christian" would be enough to guarantee a certain level of readership, no matter how poorly written the book is (this is often done with science fiction and fantasy as well).  Three (or more properly, Thr3e) by Ted Dekker has done little to alter my view.  (Why did I read the book?  Because when I bought it (along with another Dekker book), I didn't realize fully what I was buying.)

Three tells the story of Kevin Parson, a seminary student who suffered from a strange, semi-abusive childhood.  He gets a phone call one day warning him that unless he solves a riddle within three minutes, his car will explode.  Kevin doesn't solve the riddle and the car does blow up, but he escapes intact.

Thus begins a cat-and-mouse game with Slater, who may or may not be a serial killer named the Riddle Killer.  Slater believes that Kevin has committed a grave sin that requires confession or death.  Kevin, along with his childhood friend Samantha (now a state cop) and Jennifer Peters (an FBI agent) try and hunt down Slater, but Slater is apparently too clever to be caught easily.

There is not much that is truly Christian about this book other than a few religious lines (never getting very preachy) and the definitely PG-rated material:  the language is gentle enough, the romance is chaste and the violence is relatively bloodless.  I'm fine with all that as long as the story's good, and that's not the case here.  It's actually too bad, because Dekker seems like a decent enough plotter, but the story relies on a plot twist that is one of the most annoying in suspense fiction; I won't say what it is, but even Dekker seems a bit uncomfortable with it, as he spends a lot of time rationalizing it.  In addition, to perpetrate this twist, he has to actively deceive (not merely mislead) the reader, which is a cheat.

In addition, even though Dekker has a good sense of plot (till the end) and he is able to maintain a fast, tense pace, he is overall, just a passable writer.  I suppose technically his work is proficient, but compared to the great names in crime stories (Elmore Leonard, Michael Connelly, Lee Child, etc.), Dekker's prose is just flat.  With a two-star rating, it is not the worst book out there, but it is one to avoid.
