I have a couple different editions of the Penguin Jazz Guides, and while I don't have the Seventh Edition of the CD Guide, I feel I can say a few things in general.

The Good Things: Very informative.  Filled with information.  Tens of thousands of recordings, categorized alphabetically by thousands of artists, with catalogue numbers, labels, years, etc.  There will be many people you have never heard of unless perhaps you are a decades-long serious devotee.  Even then, I doubt anyone could ever be really familiar with all these musicians.  A lot of info.

The Bad Things:  Filled with information.  As someone else astutely pointed out, I'm not sure for what exact purpose you could really use all this information. All you can do is look up a specific artist and see a listing of (usually all or almost all) their recorded works.  

That's great, but then what?  I myself am only a very casual and not-terribly-knowledgeable collector of jazz recordings, but I know that I am limited in what I can collect by what I can actually find.  Therefore, it doesn't do me a lot of good to have a complete discography for, say, Carol Kidd.  If I am interested in the complete works of Carol Kidd then I am probably already pretty familiar with her works.  I would have to be if I was collecting her recordings in the year 2006.  But I'm not a huge Carol Kidd fan. 

Conversely, if I run into something I would want to add to my collection, like, say, a 1st-edition near-mint LP by Gil Evans from 1964, then I wouldn't need a guide to know that I want it.  

I admit that's a petty gripe because the book still makes for excellent recreational skimming by nerds like me, but there is also the issue of critical judgement and omissions.  For example, ever heard of Bobbie Previte, the obscure drummer?  His complete works from the mid-80's are listed.  Ever heard of Nina Simone, the famous torch singer and pianist?  According to my 1998 edition of the Penguin Guide she was not a jazz artist (although Rosemary Clooney apparently was), and is not even mentioned anywhere.  Vince Guaraldi and other similar West Coast/cool jazz artists are diminished or flat-out dismissed, upholding the longstanding tradition of New York snobbery in contemporary jazz criticism.  

And don't even get me started on the typically snide and out-of-touch comments contained in the Jaco Pastorius entry, which border on outright defamation against Italians.

In the end, I would advise a slightly (or more) dedicated jazz fan to buy a good CHEAP used copy of this guide and see what you can squeeze out of it.  You will learn something, but don't expect too much besides trivia and minutiae
