If people of influence and those aspiring to such a position want to ensure that the poor stay poor and wilful manipulation of trade is the norm, this book by Joseph E. Stiglitz is the one to read, to know how to maintain this inequality. Terminology abounds which panders to the common misunderstanding of such things as fairness, monopolies, natural resources and  wealth, for example. He also has an annoying habit of telling us about what is bad, is going to suggest some remedy, and then skips on to the next thing to criticise. 

Natural resources are, by and large, simply the raw material basis from which products are manufactured using capital and intellect in order to create things of value and subsequently wealth through trade. Crude oil and metal ores which are the significant natural resources are of scant direct value to most purchasers. Even crops such as wheat and bananas require much capital and labour inputted into their production and distribution, etc., to be of any significant value to the overall economy of a country.

There is no such thing as a private monopoly. Only a government has the ability to create and maintain a monopoly since government is the sole legitimate power which can use force and the law to prevent others from trading in the market. Microsoft is a favourite to cite, but this is totally wrong since Microsoft can not use force or the law to make computer users use their software or prevent the use of alternatives such as Linux or FreeBSD, for example.

The only fairness that is meaningful in a global economy is the freedom of opportunity which the abolition of trade barriers, government subsidies and regulation, the free movement of people across the globe and the implementation and recognition of private property rights enables. This would also have to include no government printing or minting of money, and central banking would have to be done away with, too, with private banks taking on this role. The private banks would be limited by a return to the gold standard with no fractional reserve banking permitted  Simply citing example after example of how the current norm must be further regulated by tribunals and of-the-moment political expediencies such as environmentalism is of no value whatever. 

For a proper understanding about what will work in a globalized economy, I would recommend: 'Capitalism: A Treatise on Economics by George Reisman' 



   
