I originally read Edith Hamilton's book for a high school literature class. I've loved reading Greco-Roman mythology since childhood. The lives of the major Greco-Roman Gods and Goddesses were better than soap operas to me. 

When I began reading Edith Hamilton's book back in high school, I thought I'd enjoy reading this text. Although she conducts an excellent scholarly study of GrecoRoman myths, I didn't care for Edith Hamilton's writing style which starved much of the life, warmth, and beauty out of the original tales. She makes the myths sound like more like a comparative literary study than actual stories. It was a huge disappointment: Hamilton's style made GrecoRoman mythology feel like slow torture. 

I still own my original high school copy of Hamilton's Book. Even though I've finished college and am nearing the completion of grad school, my feelings regarding Edith Hamilton's book haven't changed one iota. Even after re-reading the text several times, it still reads as the same bland, boring, pretentious piece of drivel I read as a freshman in high school. I still, however, use her book as a supplemental reference text.

This past week, I decided to pick up and read the alternative to Hamilton's work -- Bulfinch's Mythology: The Age of Fable when I began my private study of mythology after reading Joseph Campbell's "Pathways to Bliss" and "The Hero with a Thousand Faces." So far, I love Bulfinch's work and am enjoying it immensely. Bulfinch manages to infuse GrecoRoman myths with life and he manages to make the characters come alive with his storytelling. Bulfinch even include references to Greco Roman mythology in poetic citations. In addition, he even includes pronunciations of Greek/Roman names. Like Hamilton, he also includes alternative versions of myths in his text, but does it with a slight sense of humor. Bulfinch's book is a huge -- much bigger than Hamilton -- but, it's engrossing, interesting, and lively -- I've barely been able to put it down since starting it.
Bulfinch's work has made me want to search for other alternative books as well to continue reading about GrecoRoman mythology.

If you're looking for a short introductory comparative study of GrecoRoman mythology, then Edith Hamilton's work is for you. But, there are better studies out there in my opinion -- and I urge you to look for alternatives. If you want a text that's not dry, boring, and pendantic then it's hard to beat Bulfinch's Mythology's "The Age of Fable."
