This is the first time I've given a book the minimum rating.

I bought this book in the hope that it would help me consider whether the Purpose-Driven Life/Church is more 'secular philosophy influencing church beliefs' than 'the church bringing God's revelation to the world'.  However, it quickly became apparent that the basis of this book is fundamentally flawed, as the author gets many basic facts wrong.

The problems can best be illustrated by looking at Appendix A, where the author contrasts 'Psychology' with the Bible.  I'll describe the errors as they apply to Jungian psychology, as this is one of the main targets for the author in the book and is something of which I have some knowledge.

Example Errors
--------------

(1) Fear of the Lord
Point 1 of the appendix says psychology "counsels no fear of the Lord at anytime.." with the Bible teaching that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.  Yet Carl Jung wrote: "It is quite right, therefore, that the fear of God should be considered the beginning of all wisdom... Both are justified, the fear of God as well as the love of God" (Completed Works Volume 11, p419).

(2) Jung and atheism
Point 2 of the appendix says "Most founding fathers were atheists or humanists... including.. Jung"  In fact, Carl Jung famously asserted his absolute knowledge of God's existence in a BBC documentary made shortly before he died.  The atheist Richard Dawkins described Jung as believing in a "100% probability of God" (The God Delusion, p50).

(3) Body, Mind, Soul, Personality... and Spirit
Point 3 of the Appendix declares that psychology does not acknowledge the spirit in man.  Yet Carl Jung's writings are packed with discussion of the spirit.  Just in case you think that by 'spirit' he really meant 'mind', Jung wrote: "Spirit, like God... cannot be proved to exist in the external world and cannot be understood rationally" (CW 8, p 329).  This clearly distinguishes spirit from mind/body/personality, all of which can be studied scientifically/rationally.

(4) Eternal Hope
Point 4 of the appendix contrasts psychology, as offering no hope for eternity, with the Bible that teaches us about our eternal destiny.  But Jung's view was that "eternity..[is] the prerogative of the One God". (CW11, p493).

(5) The Holy Spirit
Point 5 of the appendix declares "Psychology doesn't even believe in the Holy Spirit".  In contrast, Jung wrote: "the Paraclete [ie: Holy Spirit] is of the greatest significance" (CW11, p433), and "Since the Holy Ghost is the Third Person of the Trinity and God is present entire in each of the three Persons at any time, the indwelling of the Holy Ghost means nothing less than an approximation of the believer to the status of God's son." (CW11, p413).

The author goes on to make 35 points of comparison between Psychology and Scripture, and in regards Jungian Psychology I take issue with most of them.  Please don't misunderstand me: I'm not saying that Jung's views should be taken uncritically by any means, he says many things that are highly controversial.  But this book is based on straw man arguments.

The spirit in which it is written
---------------------------------
I felt very uncomfortable with the tone taken in the book towards Rick Warren.  His name is used several times on most pages, when making points of criticism, giving it the feel of a sustained, personal attack.  He is often placed in double-binds (eg: he is criticised for saying that Willow Creek back his programmes, because it is not the Lord's backing!).

Rick Warren is also labelled early on in the book as a 'heretic', which is a very serious charge.  But he is then criticised for statements such as "meditation is focused thinking" and  "your personal testimony is more effective than a sermon" and "faithfulness has always been a rare quality".

Are these really matters of fundamental heresy to which 1 Timothy 4 might be relevant?  They seem to me to be merely disputable matters that fall into the province of Romans 14.

Conclusion
----------
The Purpose-Driven approach has pervaded the church so much that I think there is a need for a book like this to question and challenge what is happening.  Unfortunately, whilst this book may contain fine-sounding argument, it does not contain sound argument, because of the many elementary factual mistakes.
