I just bought this book and am really disappointed.  I had expected something like the reviewers said, "a bible for motorists", "dining options along America's highways and back roads", "regional maps", etc.  I checked out Wisconsin first, because that's where I live and what I know best.  18 places reviewed and 10 of them are in Milwaukee, with 3 more in the 'burbs.  2 in Green Bay, neither of which I would put in a book on great food - 'tis true, Krolls is good, but it's the East side Krolls (different owners, vastly better food), not the West side one, although of course with the West side, you do get to mention Lambeau Field, Green Bay's Mecca.  

Racine, Sheboygan and Manitowoc get the other state listings.  Recap:  18 in Wisconsin, 13 of which are in Milwaukee.  Two of the places virtually every Wisconsinite will cite as great food options are Madison and Door County, neither of which get a mention.

OK, maybe I'm being too hard on the authors.  Maybe I should forget about the ethnic smorgasbord in Madison and all the tasty home made ice creams and other places in Door County and just admit Milwaukee has all the great road food - but see folks, the problem is, I wasn't expecting listings like Watts Tea Room or Karl Ratzsch's ($79 Porterhouse for 2).  Guess my roadfood budget is different than others roadfood budget.

So get over Wisconsin.  How about Illinois?  24 listings, guess where 18 are?  Yup, Chicago.  So if you didn't fill up, or shoot your budget in Milwaukee, just drive south an hour or so, and cruise the highways and backroads of the Windy City.

Hey, get out of the Midwest.  Let's go South.  How about Kentucky?  I'm fairly familiar with that state, mmm, not a lot of good food in Kentucky apparently, only 5 listings.  OK, maybe Kentuckians are just bad cooks.  Again, though, the good cooks are clustered together (is it the same air, I wonder?).  3 of the recommended restaurants are in Louisville, 1 in Henderson, 1 in Owensville.  Knoxville?  Uh-uh.  Lexington?  Nope.

As for those "regional maps", don't leave yours at home when you travel.  The maps are regional all right - 5 or so states in a clump and the restaurant cities listed.  So, at the beginning of the Midwest section, you can see the trip to find all this great road food nicely hugs the Lake Michigan shoreline and goes down in a straight line.  

All of the chapters I looked at (maybe 1/3 of the book so far) are like that.  It looks like someone took A Trip, from city to city and stopped and investigated some restaurants in those cities.

If you love to travel from big city to big city, eat your heart out while you're there and have money to burn, this is the book for you.  Wanna buy my copy cheap
