This book (The Return of anti-Semitism) is merely a catalog of the rise in modern anti-Semitism. It ultimately fails deeply and thoroughly by not even attempting to explain the reasons for anti-Semitism or the solutions to anti-Semitism. Indeed, the author even seems quite proud to brag about not knowing the reasons or solutions. It is as if he is so horror struck at the mere thought of anti-Semitism that he feels his only job is to point it out so that the whole world too can be equally horror struck with guilt. Being horror struck, however, is not a sensible or just policy.
    It's true that in America we are still horror struck and guilty about anti-Semitism, largely as a result of our particular moral disgust at the German holocaust. Accordingly we always support the Israeli gov't, although nobody really knows where this policy came from or why we pursue it despite the world wide hatred toward us that it has engendered, and the direct connection to 9/11. We don't dare risk sounding anti-Semitic by suggesting  that if we had supported a just peace (internationally built and defended wall at internationally recognized borders) in the Middle East rather than blindly supported the Israeli occupation, 9/11 would probably not have happened. After all, the terrorist are over here because we're over there. 
     When Likud came to power in Israel they openly swore Israel would no longer be a "dwarf state" and that they were not occupying the West Bank but rather liberating Judea and Sumeria according to Biblical prophesy. Much of Israel does not support this blatantly imperialist, racist policy; yet America does out of a blind dumb fear of being or feeling anti-Semitic. You can admire us a little for being so sweet,  but how practical  is our sweetness and dumbness when directly and indirectly it caused 9/11 and makes us hated by much of the world? As long as we blindly give Israel the weapons to kill Muslims in the West Bank how can we blame Muslims for thinking of us as Western Crusaders or Zionist occupiers, and much of the rest of the world for hating us as Texas sized bullies?
    The author completely ignores the core issues causing much of modern anti-Semitism and the possible solutions, because he prefers to manipulatively capitalize on the Holocaust guilt that has served Likud's deadly occupation of the Muslim West Bank so well. We can no longer blindly pretend, as this author does, that modern anti-semitism can exist separately from American's and Israel's 50 year war against the Muslim West Bank
