I am in complete agreement with reviewer "zmusicman" in absolutely panning this book.  I found The Sacred Romance to be so poorly written that at many times I could absolutely not understand what the point was at which the authors were clumsily trying to arrive.  Okay, one thing was clear:  God is courting us and trying to get us to enter into a "romantic" relationship with Him, which promises to enter us into the whirlwind adventure of our lifetime.  Hmmm, I have to wonder if the authors were somehow referring to the theological concept of Divine Eros, which has been expounded upon by the Church Fathers and in Orthodox Christian (and perhaps Roman Catholic?) theology.  However, their arguments and illustrations show that even if they have heard of Divine Eros their understanding of it is faulty and extremely shallow, resulting in a self-centered, thirsty for self-esteem sort of "I'm OK, You're OK" relationship with the almighty God.  This is not surprising in light of the fact that this book was written by "evangelical" counselors (not respected theologians) more bent on emotions and warm fuzzies than on the Truth in relation to God's relationship with man, man's fallen nature and sinfulness, the Eros of the Holy Trinity, Christ's Incarnation, etc.

The next big problem that I found lay not in the idea of "romantic" adventures in the Christian life (for if you read the lives of the saints you will find this, as this concept is not new, much to its credit.), but in the so-called messages of the heart and messages of the arrows.  Basically these are the things that either help or hinder our relationship with God.  However, according to Curtis and Eldredge, all of the wonderfully happy and pleasant things occurring in our lives are helpful and all of the not so pleasant, mean, and traumatic things that others have inflicted upon us are arrows from Satan to keep us away from God.  This is, of course, ludicrous and completely unscriptural as the Bible teaches that all things are under God's providence and, although the Devil can harm us, not every unpleasant and uncomfortable occurrence is necessarily from the Evil One or even to his temporary victory.  Many "arrows" are allowed to occur and are even blessed by God for our spiritual growth and health (obviously the cultivation of humility is not a big priority for these guys as it might make someone uncomfortable).  The result: humans remain a bunch of "whiny spiritual babies" who can't take the pain required to gain the Kingdom!  This is obviously dangerous to our souls and I fear that all of the earnest but misinformed readers and workbook filler-outers who buy into this pseudo-psychology (as tempting as it may sound) are placing themselves in spiritual danger.

Finally, I must return to my original critique in once again stating that this book is terribly written.  The authors rarely finish a coherent thought.  Entire chapters are presented without a lucid conclusion.  The quotes from scripture are taken out of context (such as the rambling on Job) and, worst of all, they use literature and film in an attempt to prove their theological assertions as being true.  I am not saying that fiction and the arts cannot contain glimpses of the truth, illustrate a point, or even be biblically based- of course they can.  However, they are not the Canon of Scripture or Church Tradition.  The last time I checked my Bible there was not a Gospel according to Forest Gump or an Epistle to the Last of the Mohicans (of which the authors referred only to the movie, not the novel).  Thus although these films most definitely contain Christian themes they cannot possibly prove theological precepts as being true or false!  On a different note, after reading about 145 pages of nonsense and boo-hoo heartstring tugs disguised as personal accounts on the spiritual life, the authors finally caught my attention with a rudimentary introduction to spiritual warfare.  "Alas", I thought to myself, "They are starting to speak my language!"  My excitement soon waned when two or three short pages later they made an offhanded and clumsy reference to the concept of spiritual "detachment" without even citing it as the drowning of the passions or crediting it to St. John Climacus' Ladder of Divine Ascent and the monastic tradition of the Orthodox Christian Church.  Why would they, after all?  Why not just make the public think that you've reinvented the wheel by making the spiritual life easy, carefree, and painless?  Self-denial, discipline, and obedience just don't sell books.  So Curtis and Eldredge apparently decided to merely borrow the term, clean it up, polish it and paint it, and present it to the unsuspecting masses in a spiritual "get rich quick/miraculous diet pill" sort of way: It might work, but it will most likely destroy you.  Come on Christians, its time to go back to your roots and seek the Truth of Christ.  He may ask you to change your ways, it may sometimes be unpleasant, but the pay off is eternal.       
