My main interest in reading the book was for the information about the Nazi fascination with the Occult.  I was hoping for something as stimulating as Mel Gordon's HANUSSEN: HITLER'S JEWISH CLAIRVOYANT.  I was greatly disappointed.  Christopher Hale's HIMMLER'S CRUSADE doesn't really deliver what it promises.  Hale basically pooh-poohs anything connected with the occult, asserts that only Himmler took such notions seriously (but was indulged by those seeking favors from him) and then moves on to other matters.  The book draws no real conclusion other than "Nazis were evil," which it pounds repeatedly throughout the book.  (I think I knew that before I even started reading the book.)  Hale never seems to be sure of exactly which story he is telling.  For a while it seems as though the book is about Schaeffer, who led the expedition, then toward the end, it drops him altogether and starts giving detailed biographical information about other members of the expedition (and the people with whom THEY interacted).   The author goes off on lots of tangents, giving unessential details about minor figures and events that had little bearing on the main story.  After having invested several weeks in reading the book, I am not sure what the point of it was.  

The most interesting parts of the book were those that took place in Tibet, but the trip to Tibet actually takes up only about half the book.  The rest is a long-winded recounting of the rise and fall of Nazism.

It seems to me that here we have yet another book written by someone completely lacking a literary sensibility.  The author, Christopher Hale, is a British TV documentarist.  This book is an appendix to his TV show.  I found it very difficult reading.  In addition to its lack of focus, I just don't think Hale is very comfortable with the printed word.  There are pages and pages wherein it seems he is giving verbal descriptions of documentary film footage.  Perhaps his TV show was interesting, but the book was a chore to read.  In addition, the author has this maddening habit of inserting inflammatory opinions into his narrative, apropos of nothing and lacking supporting evidence.  Several times throughout the book, the author, a Briton, makes outlandish parallels between America and Nazi Germany, which he doesn't bother to back up (because he can't).  Perhaps one can get away with this in a TV documentary, but not in a book, where the reader can back up and say, "Wait a minute.  That's a bunch of crap.  Where is the evidence are you basing that statement on?"  

The book is also rife with typographical errors (some of them giving an unintentional double entendre when for example "role" is spelled "roll") and misusages of words.  It appears to have not been edited at all.

I give this book one and a half stars, but let's round it off to two just for the research the author has done.  (His bibliography is probably of a lot more use than the book.)  I just wish he had been able to put all this research into a more coherent form and told it in a way that was more comprehensible and more interesting
