I decided to read a book on the five-hour flight from MCO to LAX, and then on the return flight of something less than five hours.  (Flying downwind eastbound, of course.)  I purchased "The Aquataine Progression" by Robert Ludlum, in paperback form.  (I must admit that I still can't get used to spending $7.95 for a paperback book!  But, the horrors of inflation obviously continue to haunt us into the 21st century, and beyond.  This promised to be worth the price inasmuch as it was touted as a "New York Times Bestseller.")

I got to Page 17 of the 658-page book before I gagged.  I managed to read only a few more pages before I set it aside disgustedly.  I quote from the book to explain why:

"Lieutenant Senior Grade Gordon Ramsey had been hit by a fluke rocket that had winged out of its trajectory over the coastline and in on Ramsey's fuselage; the explosion had filled the jet streams" - - (etc).

This almost stopped me in my tracks.  The reason for my hesitancy being the fact that there is no such grade or rank in the US Navy as "Lieutenant Senior Grade."  My inclination is to think that a noted author like Robert Ludlum (or the editor at Bantam Books) should know that while there is, indeed, a rank of "Lieutenant Junior Grade" in the US Navy, there (conversely) is NO such rank as, "Lieutenant Senior Grade."

(The ranks of "Ensign," "Lieutenant Junior Grade" and "Lieutenant" equate to "Second Lieutenant," "First Lieutenant" and "Captain" in all other branches of service except the US Coast Guard which echoes the rank structure of the Navy.  Most confusing, of course, is that the rank of "Captain" in the Navy is equivalent to "Colonel" in the other services. )

I swallowed my disapproval, and continued to read.  But then, the author goes on to tell us that the skipper of the aircraft carrier, a Captain, calls in our protagonist, a Lieutenant Junior Grade, to inform him that he is being promoted to squadron commander after "Lieutenant Senior Grade" Ramsey met his fate with the rocket as previously mentioned.

Here again, I blanched.  A skipper of an aircraft carrier would hardly deal directly with a Lieutenant "Jay Gee" (JG, for "Junior Grade") to inform him of such a thing.  There are, of course, officers of intervening rank and intervening commands and responsibilities below that of the skipper of the ship. You would have other Commanders, Lieutenant Commanders, and Lieutenants who would be in the chain of command between the skipper and the protagonist.  If there's one thing that's paramount in the military, its delegation of authority!  It would certainly be somebody else who would inform the JG of his "promotion."

So, I had to swallow hard, again, and go along with the absurd notion that a Lt. JG would report directly to a Captain, let alone the skipper of the boat.

Then, while these two are conferring, a four-star general shows up unannounced via a tender to chew-out the Navy Captain.

Aw, come on.  Between the four-star and the Captain are three-star generals, two-star generals and one-star generals.  The chain of command would insert these people into the mix well before a four-star would come and deal directly with a four-striper, let alone "chew him out."  After all, one is ARMY, and the other is NAVY.  The ticked-off general would vent his anger through not only his own chain of command, but decidedly through the chain of command of the US Navy.

I swallowed hard, again, but kept reading.

Now, what happens is that the general proceeds to chew-out the captain while the JG is still present in the quarters.

BIG SWALLOW this time.

NEVER in military protocol or in the constraints of military courtesy would a senior officer berate a junior officer in front of somebody who was junior to THAT officer!  It just does NOT happen - - except in B-grade movies that aren't worth the price of admission.

Not only that, but we are now supposed to believe that the JG interrupts the general, and tells him that he's off base for berating the captain.  I almost upchucked!

The captain dismisses the JG, but he refuses to leave (yeah, sure!) and continues to give the general a piece of his mind.  (Yeah sure, again.)  After all, he's a hot-rock fighter pilot, and he's not gonna let some four-star berate the skipper that just promoted him to squadron commander, right?

The general absorbs the static from the JG, but "orders" the Captain to launch a strike despite the unfavorable and deteriorating weather over the target.  He calls the captain "chicken" if he doesn't order the strike, and calls the JG "chicken" if he doesn't fly it.  So, the JG and everybody else fly the mission rather than being labeled as "chicken" despite the previous critical decision regarding unfavorable weather (which, of course, is a ridiculous contention) and the JG gets shot down.

Okay, this is a far as I got in the book.  It's just entirely too hollow and too outlandish in its premise to entice me to read any further.

This sophomoric rhetoric brings this book down to comic-book level.  I can't believe the blurb that says this bookspent time on the best seller list of the New York Times!  But then, I guess that inasmuch as so few of the American public will spend any time in military service these days, this kind of bull-loney can pass for "real world" scenarios and the author can weave such bull-loney into a "believable" plot.

It's a shame.

And, so is this book!

Carl B. Jordan


