This book, like the Atkins approach in general, has part of the picture, but is certainly incomplete.  Moderation, not virtual elimination, of carbohydrates, when paired with lean protein, plenty of omega 3 (fish and flax oils), and monounsaturated oils (like olive oil), has been shown to be the healthiest diet (a Mediterranian type diet). The Atkins approach does not advocate moderation, instead prefering to vilify an entire necessary macronutrient - carbohydrates!  Certainly the old fashioned 1980's style high carb low fat diets were a disaster, and brought out diabetes in susceptible people - but the answer is balance - good quality, naturally high fiber carbs, paired with protein and healthy fat - not virtual elimination of carbs.  Inadequate carbohydrate intake can lead to fatigue and reluctance to exercise.  Dr. Vernon herself continues to struggle with her weight, despite following the Atkins approach. Most Americans will initially lose weight when starting on Atkins because most eat FAR too many carbs.  But they also eat too much saturated fat (animal and dairy fat, for the most part), which has been show to worsen insulin problems and diabetes, and aggravate cholesterol and artery inflammation, worsening risk of heart disease and stroke.  Atkins addresses one of the these culprits (excess sugar), but not the other (excess saturated fat).  Americans need to cut down on these, and then add more good fats (fish, nuts, olive oil, avacado), lean protein (to cut down on saturated fat), and not be afraid of healthy carbs in the form of whole fruits (not juice), vegetables, and whole grains (not white bread or sugary low fiber cereal).  That, plus watching the calories, and daily exercise (at least 30 " of moderate cardio, five days a week), and diabetes will DRAMATICALLY improve.  Try it and see! Health is not just about weight - its about healthy body fat and muscle ratios, and what is going on inside your body - in your arteries, your brain, etc.  The studies all support healthy balance.  
