I have read Mr. Harris' book.  I quite disagree with his ideas, just as  I find him, as a writer,  quite disagreeable.  There  are some threads in his book that hold one's fascination, or even which earn one's admiration.  Some of his ideas are of such apparent originality that one must applaud him for the sake of them.  His insight into ancient Spartan society, for example,  is one of these.   

Nevertheless, this reader disagrees with the use to which the author puts his insights, as well as with the conclusions he draws from them.  In truth, his conclusions are not conclusions, but are actually his own prior assumptions, dressed up as conclusions.  It should be apparent to any astute reader that the author, in this work, has set out simply to justify, in any way he can,  his prior conclusions about the evils of liberal democracy, liberal "intellectuals," Arab societies, and internationalism.  In his effort to do this, he repeatedly stoops to use fallacious arguments, to misrepresent others either by outright dissimulation or by ad hominem attack, and to (unconvincingly) dress up his assumptions as conclusions. 

Mr. Harris compares the people and leadership of the contemporary United States to the people and leadership of the 16th Century Aztecs.  Specifically, he compares the events of September 11, 2001, to those of Cortez's conquest of the Aztecs.  He argues that (thanks to "liberal intellectuals") we were as ignorant of Islamic terrorism and terrorists as Montezuma was of the strange men who arrived in Mexico at the peak of the Aztec Empire.  To condense his argument, he claims that we have failed to understand the nature of the 9/11 attack and the nature of those who perpetrated it, just as Montezuma failed to understand the nature of the Spaniards' sudden appearance.  He says that we, like the Aztecs (again, thanks to "liberal intellectuals"), are giving the Islamic militants too much of a break, not recognizing them as what they are  -- purely evil, irrationally motivated, and utterly indifferent to anyone else, and finally he accuses us of being incapable of recognizing who is, and who is not, an enemy, any more.    But the fact is that the West has a long history with the Islamic world, that we do understand their motivations, and that we cannot claim to be mystified by their feelings and thoughts - in short, we are not, in fact, in a position anything like Montezuma and his Aztec Empire.

If  there is any truth in the author's thesis at all, one does not need to cite the twice-removed  theorizing of "liberal intellectuals" to see where that truth is most evident - one need only look at the Bush Administration.  America having been attacked by a group of Saudis for reasons having largely to do with the American military presence in Saudi Arabia, Bush's response was to transparently fabricate bogus connections between 9/11 and Iraq, and then to attack Iraq, conveniently ignoring, and failing largely to explore, the real threads that led from 9/11 - Saudi money, Pakistani support & protection of the Taliban, and a truly deplorable history of Western relations with the middle east.  If we were to apply Harris' comparison, it would be Bush who takes the place of Montezuma, Bush who misunderstands the nature, even the identity, of the enemy, and Bush whose "fantasy ideology" propelled him into a grievous misadventure and an impossible quagmire. 

I don't know any "liberal intellectuals" well enough to speak for them, but I know that this liberal, and many, many others stood behind America's attack on al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan, precisely because we did recognize the nature and identity of the enemy.   Liberals, intellectual or otherwise, took another view only after we saw that Bush was turning away from the pursuit of the terrorists, and making shameful use of 9/11 to carry out his pre-assigned task: to invade Iraq and establish permanent bases there in order to exercise hegemony in the middle eastern oil fields and to make a neat profit for Halliburton, while he was at it.  

But, turning back to Mr. Harris, he wishes us to regard this "new" enemy as an inexplicable and implacable force of evil toward which we must show no quarter, even to the point of taking no interest at all in what might actually be motivating them, what might effect a change in them, or what strategies we might adopt, other than one entailing their total and merciless destruction by us.   His extraordinary thesis, a thesis that defies well-established principles of human and political behavior, is that this enemy simply hates us for who and what we are, for no identifiable cause or causes, and that their sheer unreasonableness is sufficient motivation for them to wage a desperate, even a self-destructive war against us, no matter what it costs them.   

It is impossible for anyone to pretend that the West does not have a long history with the Islamic peoples of the middle east, one in which the West was not always a villain, but which traces, nevertheless, an unbroken story of exploitation, political meddling (including the deliberate destruction of a true democracy in Iran),  manipulation, encouragement of conflict, encouragement of crimes against humanity, and what many Muslims see as an absolutely unqualified support of Israel in all of its actions.  What the author has done here is nothing more than to demonize the Islamic world by disregarding our actual history with them.

Mr. Harris' prescription, pretty much in line with the well-known PNAC of  the neoconservatives, is that we abandon any and all diplomatic means, that we abandon international cooperation, and that we abandon our own principles, including those that are congruent with the Geneva Convention,  in order to destroy this enemy utterly, at any cost to ourselves or to the people of the middle east.   Frankly, in spite of his carefully constructed philosophical rationalizations, this conclusion is incorrect and unwarranted by history and it constitutes a "fantasy ideology" every bit as mistaken and delusional as that of Osama bin-Laden. 

Finally, this reader found certain violations of logic and good faith in Mr. Harris' book.  While these, alone, may or may not have any bearing on Mr. Harris' major argument, one is nevertheless distressed, and made distrustful, by his willingness to stoop to such means. 

One example of this is where the author misrepresents statements by Richard Butler, chief arms inspector for the United nations.  In 2002, Mr. Butler suggested that it was unseemly for the United States to insist upon no development or acquisition of nuclear weapons by presently non-nuclear nations, while the U.S., at the same time, not only refuses to back away from nuclear weapons itself, but is even developing new forms of nuclear weapons and intimating our willingness actually to use them in theater.  Mr. Harris presents Mr. Butler's argument as if Butler had been actually advocating "no double standard" for development or acquisition of nuclear weapons by non-nuclear nations.  In fact, Mr. Butler's intent was to point out that the United States, by refusing any adjustment in its own position on nuclear weapons, was doing very little to justify its demands upon others or to encourage them to, in fact, not pursue nuclear weapons.   Without visibly making up facts, Mr. Harris has nonetheless, and I believe deliberately, twisted the words of Mr. Butler to mean something they did not mean. 

Mr. Harris also attacks Martha Nusbaum's essay on behalf of cosmopolitanism, "Patriotism vs. Cosmopolitanism."  He hangs his attack first on the essay's reference to the famous Greek, Diogenes, and then switches his attack from anything Ms. Nusbaum may have written, choosing instead to launch ad hominem attacks on the essentially irrelevant (not to mention ancient) Diogenes - pointing out, for example, that Diogenes was said to have masturbated publicly in the agora.  While Ms. Nusbaum's essay and her ideas are really not based on the apocryphal doings and sayings of Diogenes, it satisfies Mr. Harris' intellectual standards simply to smear another intellectual by an ad hominem attack on a long-dead, imperfectly remembered Greek buffoon.  

Readers of integrity will find this sort of deliberately shoddy reasoning throughout Mr. Harris' book.  If many readers were to adopt Mr. Harris' views, despite the obvious flaws in his reasoning and despite the intellectual dishonesty that permeates his book, they will do so at their own peril. Like Montezuma, they will have failed to recognize a dangerous enemy when he is standing right before them. 
