Though unpersuasive, the author seems well-intended. The problems underlying his book are commonplace within public discussion of environmental pollutants. What are some? 

Thornton states "organochlorines dominate virtually all of the official and unofficial lists of hazardous pollutants in the environment." It is less appreciated environmental scientists merely scratch the surface of chemical complexity. There may be tens of thousands of residues of synthetic (and natural) compounds that could be detected in the environment with sensitive analytic methods. Yet for many substances, no analytic methods exist, nor is there a comprehensive program to explore a potentially vast universe. Thornton is crucially misled by accepting official and unofficial lists as well-founded and comprehensive. This selection bias leads him to focus on chlorine-compounds. His book is based on myopic appreciation of chemical complexity in the environment. This problem pervades many studies on which Thornton relies.  It is wiser to appreciate how little is broadly known about environmental residues. 

Statistical association does not establish causality. Yet, this fundamental principle is oft forgotten, owing to hunger for a pollutant to blame. Papers published in journals may properly mention a pollutant is only "associated" with an effect. In common discussion, however, well-intentioned people claim causality that is not established and often far-fetched. Given the myriad of synthetic residues in the environment, how could one be distinguished as harmful, to the exclusion of other possibilities, known or unknown? Generally, it cannot. 

Our health is influenced by the foods that we eat. These too contain enormous chemical complexity, including natural pesticides intrinsic to plants, defenses against predators. When chemists report much lower exposures to synthetic residues, it is very difficult to isolate their risk, amid all the potentially confounding factors. Generally, risk estimates are based NOT on observed dose/response relationships at environmental doses, but on cautious assumptions derived from vastly higher doses to test species. Some claim we have "toxic chemicals" in our bodies. In a sense they are right, because all substances are toxic in sufficient dose. Yet there will often be levels below which no harm is likely. An everyday example: taking an aspirin may be healthful, but to swallow a bottle of pills might be fatal. Is aspirin toxic? Yes, at sufficient dose, no, at apt doses. By this logic, laundry lists of chemicals with supposed propensity to induce cancer, such as Table 2.1, set aside the essential issue of dose and signify nothing.    

Organo-chlorines "build to higher and higher concentrations in air, water, and sediments." If so, how to explain the 95+ percent decline in many organo-chlorines on a global basis during the past three decades? This seems conveniently unmentioned.  

Thornton errs by claiming the first chlor-alkali production technology used mercury.  In fact, diaphragm factories began in Germany during 1890, whereas the first mercury cell factory began in 1894.  A trivial error, yet needless and indicative of inattention to facts. 

Thornton alludes to the promise of greener substances. Tellingly, this notion is not elaborated upon in any meaningful way.  

Some environmentalists dwell on old bugaboos, yet do not call for exploration of whether substances used today - including ones without chlorine -- yield environmental residues. They look narrowly or backwards. "The scale and severity of the [chlorine] threat is rivaled only by the hazards associated with climate change, nuclear technologies, and the reduction of biological diversity."  How can someone compare vinyl siding (containing chlorine) to a nuclear weapon?  When an author does not pay heed to uncertainties and adopts simplifying assumptions by government bureaucracies, he is absurdly led to equate a socially useful, ubiquitous plastic with a nuclear weapon.  One is reminded of poet William Butler Yeats: "the worst are full of passionate intensity." 

Thornton suggests sperm abundance is decreasing among human males, owing to chlorine.  Since this book was published by MIT Press, the unsuspecting might be more troubled than if reported by a tabloid.  Would not a university press aim to convey facts, with responsible appreciation for uncertainties? 

What is the author's solution?  A government-designed economy, steered by a technocratic elite of scientists in good standing among card-carrying environmental activists.  During the course of the 20th century, such centralized political planning of economies has fallen into disrepute.  The thinking in this book helps explain why.        

Hydrochloric acid in our stomach helps digest food and destroy accompanying disease agents. Our biological need for chlorine is not to be learned from Thornton.  Yet, his book has value, even if unintended. It could serve as reading material for a graduate-level class that aims to help students cultivate critical thinking on environmental topics. Strongly-held concerns about exposures to trace chemicals seem common in the U.S. media. Education that empowers students to weigh such claims carefully would serve the public good. 

What are some books to which citizens can turn for more reliable education?  There are many good ones, of which a few options are:
John Emsley. The Consumer's Good Chemical Guide. (W.H. Freeman)  
W. Baarschers. eco-facts & eco-fiction. (Routledge)
Aaron Wildalsky.  But is it True? (Harvard U Press).  
J. Rodricks.  Calculated Risks: understanding the toxicity and human health risks of chemicals in our environment (Cambridge U. Press).
John F. Ross.  Living Dangerously: navigating the risks of everyday life.  (Perseus)
National Research Council. Carcinogens and Anticarcinogens in the human diet. National Academy Press.  
