Instead of being titled "property and freedom," it should be titled "property and power." Pipes was a prominent old cold-war apologist for American capitalism, and you can tell that he is still trapped in his little world of false-dichotomy. 

Pipes overall argument is contrived, and with the exception of his knowledge of Russian history, superficial. Most of his time is spent criticizing the Stalinist Soviet Union, while at the same time lacking any thoughtful rebuttal to Marx's critique of capitalism.

His title claim, that freedom cannot exist without private property, is weak philosophically and logically. He has poor insight into the nature of freedom and presonal responsibilty. He would really benefit by reading some Sartre or Nietzche, before trying to describe his own made up idea freedom. His attempts to link economic thought with philosophy and history fail miserably. He barely exposes the actual writings of Marx. This is incredibly unfortuante since most "real-world" capitalists, such as wealthy Wall street brokers, know that Marx understood capitalism better than any of its supporters. His philosophical support is all anecdotal with no real thoughtful analysis. His historical summary, although detailed with Russia, leaves much to be desired. He fails to discuss slavery, prostitution, or even slumlords, all which flourish under American capitalism. 

Although some might find his credentials enough to accept his flimsy argument, I for one was greatly disappointed. I realize that property is linked to power, but freedom is something completely different. 

I'm sure many right-wing folks will look past all of this flaws in this books and embrace it. I'm sure the paternalistic allure of an established Harvard professor will cause some to avoid challenging the views in his book. 
 
But I'm not trying to convince those people. Look past the credentials, the excessive use of footnotes to appear more "academic" ( a clear sign of a writer who is insecure of his own beliefs!), and the comfort of someone who agrees with your agenda, and you will discover shallow puerile nonsense
