The Crossing is set in New Mexico and Mexico in the late 1930s, during the last days of the Wild West before the onslaught of the motor car ends the frontier once and for all. 
	The story is centred on two adolescent, monsyllabilic farmer's sons in New Mexico. When a wolf comes up from Mexico the farmer and his two sons decide to set traps and catch the wolf. McCarthy takes us into the mind of the wolf and an interesting, but sadly short, period of the book ends when the older son, alone, catches the wolf. Here he decides, rather than kill it, to return it to Mexico from where it came. When he reaches Mexico he is surprised to find the Mexicans don't see his generosity in quite the same light. After they commandeer the wolf and set it to fighting dogs Billy shoots it, and drifts through Mexico before returning home where he finds his parents murdered by horse thieves. An obvious plot at this stage would be for them to seek revenge but no. Instead they become thieves themselves and we find ourselves heading back to Mexico, with an unclear goal except to find their horses, a big country in which to find half a dozen horses, and our two protagonists becoming less and less likeable by the page. It is a pity that although McCarthy manages to take us into the mind of the wolf he never once reveals what the two boys are thinking, nor why. What motivates Billy and Boyd? For the entire book we never find out. 
	 They meet a girl in an encounter that will be confusing to anyone who does not speak fluent Spanish. They also meet several Mexicans, some with their parent's horses, and they reacquire some of the horses in equally confusing scenes. Later Boyd, the younger brother, runs off with the girl; Billy returns to the USA, tries and fails to join the army (we are now in the 1940s) and so works on various ranches before returning to Mexico, for the third time, to find his brother. 
	In `The Crossing' there are in fact three `crossings' into Mexico, which is projected as a lawless country full of generally unpleasant people, much like the USA. In fact, through the book there are few endearing, likeable characters that the reader can actually root for; the wolf and one or two horses are the possible exceptions.
Much of the dialogue is in Spanish and difficult to follow. McCarthy may be pleased with himself for speaking Spanish but many readers of English literature do not and with so much dialogue in Spanish, and untranslated, it makes the story difficult to follow.
	This is further aggravated by a lack of proper punctuation. Mr McCarthy should remember that punctuation is something that has evolved with the English language and is there to make the language more comprehensible. To eliminate this not only distracts readers from what you are saying, but stops readers from enjoying the writing. Reading a sentence of 80 words without so much as a comma is very hard work. Lawyers often omit punctuation when writing a legal document to protect them legally. At times, `The Crossing' was much like reading a legal document, you need to read each sentence twice to understand exactly what McCarthy is saying. 
Yet McCarthy still gives a compelling story described in vivid locations. Behind the faade of Spanish dialogue, unpunctuated English and dull characters there is a powerful storyteller at work here. It is a pity he chooses two charisma free lads having a loosely connected series of mini-adventures to express himself
