From start to finish, New X-men: Imperial is overly ambitious and overly melodramatic.  The themes, for the most part, are the same tried ideas of tolerance and prejudice.  All X-men comics revolve around these same ideas, but the hard part is putting a new spin on them, and unfortunately their use in Imperial felt stale, generic, and overblown.

Imperial (New X-men #118-#126) continues the saga of the struggle against Cassandra Nova, an immensely powerful being who has hijacked Xavier's body, trapped his mind, and then left to sabotage the Shi-ar empire.  Meanwhile, the X-men must deal with an organization that is harvesting mutants for their organs and face increasing public scrutiny since Xavier revealed his mutant identity.

The outcome and revelation of Cassandra, her identity, her past, and eventually her defeat, came off as very B-movie-ish.  There was a barrage of newer characters, and although I had read volume 1 (E is for extinction), they didn't seem adequatly explained, making me wonder if I was supposed to read another series in conjunction.

The weak plot would be acceptable, were it not for the bizarre art that accompanies it.  I respect the editors for trying to lend diversity to X-men's looks by bringing in different artists, but the end-result is just not very pleasing in Imperial.  X-mens' faces are so dowsed in character lines that they are downright ugly and deformed at times, and their faces completely change appearance from frame to frame.  

The final blow is that the layout of the action in the frames is so cluttered that I had no idea what was going on most of the time.  I had to repeatedly examine some frames to try to figure out what was trying to be conveyed.  Is that Wolverine or Beast?  Is that supposed to be a head?  What just happened here?  

I have been trying to get into the newer incarnations of our favourite gene-freaks.  I must confess that I really don't care for the general direction in the New X-men series.  I don't like their costumes, I don't like their "second-mutations," and I'm not even a big fan of the roster in New X-men.  But it's not that I'm just a stubborn old fart who refuses to accept change.  I had vastly enjoyed the Uncanny X-men novels (circa issue #400), but I can't say the same about New X-men Imperial
