While I've been an avid, but increasingly less enthusiastic, reader of Parker's "Spenser" novels since I first plucked Mortal Stakes from a mail-order remainder house almost 30 years ago, I'm rather late to the Jesse Stone series, now counting five.

There's a lot to be said for the character of Stone... he's flawed in ways that Spenser could never be, and while he's as "involved" with his ex-wife Jenn as the Boston-based private detective is with his paramour Susan Silverman, there is nothing idealized about their relationship, or "connection" as Jesse and Jenn, through considerable analyst sessions, have come to term it.

Aside from the "can't-live-with-her, can't-stop-obsessing-about-her" problem that occupies much of Stone's waking hours, he also fights the battle of the bottle the way Spenser fights the bad guys. It's not a perfect world for the former major league baseball prospect and LA homicide detective who drank himself off that job only to find himself for a rather convoluted reason on the other side of the country as police chief in a modest Eastern Massachusetts community yclept "Paradise," given a fresh start as a law enforcement professional, all described in the pleasing preceding Parker/Stone novel, Night Passage.

The next in the newer series should have been organic, a natural, but it seems to suffer the sophomore jinx. Parker was early on burdened with the heir-apparent to the Chandler/Ross Macdonald (Kenneth Millar) detective-as-knight-errant mantle (and even went so far in 1989 as to complete Chandler's unfinished Poodle Springs and then unwisely follow up with a Philip Marlowe pastiche, Perchance to Dream). In Trouble in Paradise, Parker takes Dashiell Hammett's 1925 classic, and much reprinted, Continental Op short story, "The Gutting of Couffignal," and sets it on the affluent gated island of Stiles across the bay from Paradise.

Just to make sure the crime fiction aficionado "gets" it, Parker has the brains heavy of Trouble in Paradise, Macklin, in dialogue with his devoted gal pal Faye, refer to the high risk criminal enterprise he's planning as "the big knockover," the title of another celebrated Hammett/Op story... c'mon, no one in the late 1990s still uses that sort of slang!

Yes, there are elements in the book to recommend it... five, count'em five major female characters and that's unusual in this genre, and the continuing saga of Jesse and Jenn, and Jesse and the bottle. Parker, having created a fully realized Boston-centric milieu for Spenser with numerous recurring characters, correctly assesses that many of those supporting players can also occupy Jesse Stone's universe as well rather than create new ones, or at least give them new names. So just as we recognized Gino Fish and Vinny Morris and State Police Captain Healy in Night Passage, so too are the characters of crime boss Tony Marcus, Boston Homicide Detective Frank Belson and former ADA Rita Fiore peripheral in Trouble in Paradise.

On the not-so-hot side, the hatchet heavy, a putative Native American (Apache), Wilson "Crow" Cromartie seems to have wandered in from any one of a number of Elmore Leonard novels, and after the somewhat rushed dnouement, it's an open question as to whether he's rejoined the other author's stable.

Trouble in Paradise will be an important entry in the Jesse Stone series because of the evolving process of the protagonist's coming to grips with his and Jenn's "connection," and his attempts to disengage from the bottle. It's regrettable that the framing narrative isn't at the level of the other books
