I've heard good things about this book so I was honestly expecting to like it.  However I really was disappointed and surprised because after the third chapter the book gets boring and very repetitive.  And because it was written by Brooke Shields, the book sold.  But really, if an unknown wrote this book it would not have gone anywhere.

I also got the feeling that because Brooke Shields suffered PPD, she thought it is was so almighty important that she needed to write a book about it.  I'm sorry but I don't think that a person who goes through depression for only a few months has suffered all that much.  There are unfortunately millions of people who are poor, without health insurance, and worse without support of family and friends, that keep their depression going on for years and years and their entire lives are destroyed by this illness.  No one cares about them.  That is the saddest fact about depression in this country.  

However Brooke Shields had millions of dollars to pay for help, a famous name that allowed her to write a book all about it, a career that people would die for (her lack of talent doesn't seem to have affected her career much), and most importantly a husband and friends to help her out.  She also had a doctor calling her every day which I've never heard of before!  Try being without all those things when you're suffering depression.  Trying to beat depression without love and resources is like trying to drive a nail into a board with a feather.  I was a bit annoyed that Brooke Shields was oblivious to all this in her book.

And Tom Cruise only brought more attention to the book with his rant about medications.  I admire Tom Cruise - he is certainly far more talented than Brooke and I believe his comments about her career angered her more than anything.  However he is not a doctor and he does not know what he is talking about!!!!

The book's writing is very mediocre and the people who buy the book live under very different circumstances than the author, so it's hard to get much out of it.  This book only sold because it was about Brooke Shields
