Not too long ago, public hangings were a popular form of family entertainment. Arguments between friends or neighbours frequently resulted in murders. Most children had seen a person die, and disease claimed many lives. Wars were rampant.

Now we have these "experts" arise from their university degrees and tell us that the world is degrading into violence and disorder. Certainly if they have looked a little further than their own insecurities, they would realise that we actually live in a much safer world than we ever did! The "good old days" were not actually as good as these people seem to think they were, and we are at much less risk of violence than any other era.

Never before has a civilisation been so obsessed with violence, and their fear of it. In the past, it was accepted as part of life. But now we warn parents and their children to fear themselves and their own capabilities. This is ludicrous.

50 years ago, we had war. In many countries of the world, the slaughter continues, and here we are, afraid because our children are killing video game charaters! A few rare children shoot up their schools and we call this an epidemic! Disturbed children have always existed and always will. This is life, and we can't promote fear all over a nation because of a few highly damaged individuals.

I find the notion that a mother who does not smile enough at her child, or who smacks her children, or who allows them to cry to sleep, is creating a child who will kill others, a complete joke. The fact that it is even suggested is outragous. If these social workers and their ilk are so concerned about saving lives, why don't they direct their efforts at the things in the world that really are devastating. Children in the world are victims or wars, rape and real atrocities, yet these psychologists continue to beat around the bush and blame TV and games for violence, when they could be concerntrating on things that really matter.

Underneath the soft words and thoughtless approach though, lies a more serious element. To make our future children so afraid by labelling them defenceless and installing the fear of violence in them, we are only creating children who feel powerless and weak. And we all know that children who feel weak and inadequate are much more likely to become violent or suicidal than confident ones. These social workers are inflicting their own troubled pasts and fears on the future generations.

This book is a joke. And it might be a very dangerous one indeed
