Having never read a book by Danielle Steel but seen and liked a few of the movies adapted from her novels, I was looking forward to reading Answered Prayers, since I usually always find the books more deep and interesting. Sadly, I couldn't have been more disappointed... The first thing that bothered me about this novel, was the amount of repetition it has. I was just through the first few pages of the first chapter, and I was already being told things (usually insignificant) which I had just read a few lines before. 
Secondly, the moment Brad is introduced into the plot, I could foresee with certainty, how it was going to unravel and how the book would eventually end. So as not to dampen my enthusiasm and continue reading, I reasoned that if the plot was going to be so predictable, the book couldn't possibly be Danielle Steel's "Number One Bestseller" as the cover proclaims...seems like I have a grave misconception regarding the criteria needed to make a book a "bestseller".

The major flaw of this novel is that it desperately lacks imagination. Even the main characters themselves and their situations are mirror images of each other. Faith is sweet and caring, has two daughters who have grown up and left to live on their own, leaving her feeling lonely and sad. Her husband is cold, unreligious and gives her no attention. 
Brad is sweet and caring, has two sons who have grown up and left to live on their own, leaving him feeling lonely and sad. His wife is cold, unreligious and gives him no attention. Even Faith's "deep dark secret" is too unoriginal, and it is revealed to the reader at the very early stages of the book, leaving no room for curiosity and suspense.

Halfway through the book, I was so bored that I considered giving up reading it altogether. However I kept pushing on, praying that some twist to the plot would miraculously materialize somewhere, to at least make reading Answered Prayers worthwhile... Unlike Faith however, my prayers remained unanswered... It's going to require a lot of will power to attempt reading a Danielle Steel novel again... 
