( Email me to receive a free teaching CD that tells the truth concerning Paul's thorn in the flesh: JustinStout1983 at yahoo dot com )


I would not recommend this book to anyone.

The way that religious people have taught on the subject of "the sovereignty of God" is complete heresy.  The idea that "nothing can happen but what God wills or allows" has held more Christians in bondage than any other false teaching within the Church today. 

If people are experiencing sickness, disease, poverty, physical pain, emotional pain, or a 'handicap or disability'.. it is because of either one of these two reasons: #1) They are facing the consequences of your own past decisions and believing... or #2) They are facing something that has been caused either directly by Satan, or simply because of the fact that we live in a fallen world that is full of sin and ungodliness. (God's grace is bigger than both). 

Christians need to realize that they have been redeemed from the curse! They are redeemed from the three-fold curse of the law, which is sickness, poverty, and spiritual death. God would no more want one of His children to be sick or in poverty than He would want them to commit adultery or get drunk! Don't get mad at me over that statement. It's simply what the Word of God teaches. Jesus Christ bore your sin, sickness, disease, physical & emotional pain, and poverty all at the very same time. To deny the finished work of Jesus Christ is to deny the Word of God and you may as well be slapping Jesus in His face.

Another thing that people need to understand is what the Word of God REALLY says about Paul's 'thorn in the flesh'. First of all, God is NOT the one who gave Paul a 'thorn in the flesh'. Second of all, God is NOT the author of ANY of your problems. The will of God is that it be on earth just as it is in heaven. Don't get mad at me over that statement either, because Jesus prayed that God's will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Is there any sin in heaven? No! So God doesn't want any here! Is there any sickness or disease in heaven? No! So God doesn't want any here! Is there any poverty in heaven? No! So God doesn't want any here! 

God has nothing to do with the evil and problems in this world!

I pray that your heart will be quickened and the eyes of your understanding will be enlightened by the knowledge of God's Word
