This book will not by itself have you speaking or reading Japanese.  As a reference, especially for the verbal idioms, it is quite useful, but only after the fact, I fear.  There are no drills, no exercises, and vocabulary is simply listed at the beginning of each major section.  Here are 100 verbs, now go learn them.  Here are 100 nouns, do likewise.  His insistence that Japanes "adjectives" are "words to modify a noun" just as in English, can only confuse.  "You mean adjectives conjugate just like verbs rather than decline like nouns?"  

His presentation of the Kana is also "Here it is, now just go and memorize these tables."  Even his presentation of the traditional syllabary tables is quirky, filling in the ya and wa columns with standard vowels, not at all helpful to the beginner, especially without explanation.

There is no practice reading connected prose.  There aren't any connected dialogs at all.  Any discussion of politeness levels and the in-out group dichotomy is totally missing.  You just don't see/hear real Japanese here, spoken or written.  There is no indication that real Japanese is often written vertically right to left. There is no discussion of innovative versus traditional Katakana spelling.  Related to this, there is, quite surprizingly, no discussion of modern "loan" words, especially the huge modern English-borrowed vocabulary, and the rules of "transcribing" and "trans-speaking" English into Japanese.  Especially surprising for someone in the scientific and engineering fields.

There is no help with real pronunciation (devoiced high vowels and the "soft" medial "g" of the Tokyo dialect for example), and no help at all with determining general pitch patterns of connected speech.   Once again, just memorize each sentence as you come up against it.  Don't ask why, just do it.  Most un-engineer-like.  

His Romaji is also, to say the least, quirky.  Capitalization to show pitch levels can make the neginning English user fall into stress accents rather than pitch accents very easily.

Last, but certainly not least, his non-explanation of Kanji, especially the possibility of multiple readings, of proper names in particular, and the "just throw it at you in unrelated chunks of vocabulary" are not at all helpful for a beginner.  Let alone how you might write it yourself - stroke order and the like.  No clue, either, how to use a Japanese-English dictionary.

All in all, a disappointing book.  Being an engineer myself, I was hopeful that an engineering/scientific approach to Japanese might be interesting, but there is little here.  Stay with the tried and true language experts.  Eleanor Harz Jordan and the classic "Reading Japanese" and Part 1 of "Japanese, The Spoken Language" will be much more rewarding to the beginner, even if teaching him/herself.
 
