Pity the student using this textbook for a Differential Equations course. The Boyce & DiPrima text is unduly cumbersome with lacking explanation and poorly choosen examples throughout. 

Many problems given in the text are tedious, and are indicated as being "technologically intensive." This is fine: in today's workplace, one can anticipate using a computer to solve problems. Unfortunately, none of my math professors will let me bring out my laptop on an exam. In some of the chapters, almost every problem is indicated as being "technologically intensive." If the computer-oriented problems weren't bad enough, the examples in the text are. Most of these are sorely unclear. I think that Boyce & DiPrima must have been writing in Fermat's marginal notes style when composing this text. Many times the omitted steps (which the authors sometimes regard as "it is clear that") require substantial algebraic and calculus manipulation to achieve the indicated results. Certainly I have no qualms about a text leaving out algebraic or even trigonometric simplifications, but what's left out of the Boyce & DiPrima examples is truely excessive. Worse, still, the examples are often very generic to a single type of problem. Thus, while one type of problem in the exercises might have good examples to instruct students on how to achieve solutions, the rest of the exercises often lack example altogether. Explanation and orientation to applied math is poor. The authors jump suddenly from a confusing theory discourse to an application without bridging the two. Many times I was left puzzled by how the text was proceeding. Still many more times I set the book aside in frustration.

This book does, however, have redeeming values. I like how all of the problems have their solutions provided in the back. If only other math textbook authors took the hint: students won't know how well they're doing if they cannot confirm their results! Also, the included software is good. I found it easy to use and helpful for the computing problems. I wish, however, more attention was given to this software in the text (like small projects using the software with each chapter). These benefits unfortunately do not overcome the tremendous flaws with the Boyce & DiPrima text.

Overall, this is one of the worst math books I have encountered. Rife with poor explanation, a confusing style, and poor exercise sets, the Boyce and DiPrima textbook is bound to cause grief for most students. The student's solution manual is helpful, but offers only little more explanation than the textbook. If you are hapless enough to have this text as a course requirement, I recommend that you either swap classes to try and get a course with a different book - or - be prepared to spend many long hours with tutors or your professor.

Good luck.

[...
