Let's start with P52, that credit card sized piece of papyrus, thought to be the oldest surviving scrap of scripture of the Gospel of John.  Mr. Ehrman repeatedly mentions that it was found in a "trash heap in Upper Egypt."  In fact, Mr. Ehrman does this every single time P52 is mentioned.  
To paraphrase Ralph Manheim, "It is the half educated writer, without clear ideas, who generally feels that to say a thing only once is rather slight."  Mr. Ehrman is much too intelligent to be doing this by accident.  Therefore I believe it is done with purpose, and done oddly enough, without seeming too concerned about in which city it was discovered.  According to Dr. Bruce Metzger, to whom Mr. Ehrman dedicates his new book,  Misquoting Jesus, that fragment "was purchased in Egypt as early as 1920, but it sat unnoticed for years among similar fragments of papyri."  Hey, I thought a trash heap was a mountain of garbage one finds in a landfill with vermin crawling about and seagulls flying overhead.  Now it seems to include any stack of papyri that may contain holy scripture.  If that isn't a giveaway, I don't know what is.

While Mr. Ehrman gleefully tears apart any possibilities that most of the apocrypha could have any credibility (he claims nearly all of them are fakes or forgeries, and probably correctly), he nonchalantly mentions off the cuff that all but seven of the New Testament books are forged as well (those seven themselves also being tampered with)  The latter is, I believe, the real purpose for writing this book.  Lacking the courage to make this the focused topic, he covertly "slipped it in."  Since then he has made it the focus of a book called Misquoting Jesus. 

The tendency for conspiracy theory to emanate from Mr. Ehrman is common.  There can be many reasons why so many more recently hand copied manuscripts of the New Testament differ from the oldest ones.  Mr. Ehrman points to large political movements most often while ignoring some more obvious reasons.  Case in point:  the Gospel of Mark.  He says the earliest copies show Jesus reacting angrily to just about everything.  Reasoning that the older versions must be the correct ones, Mr. Ehrman assumes the newer copies were purposely changed in order to sound more like Matthew, Luke, and John.  Could it actually be possible that these oldest copies have survived through the ages because it was known back then that they were wrong?  Consider that a scribe or two might've thought that a "compassionate" Jesus was rather wimpy and so rewrote Him to be angry all the time to show a more powerful God.  These "angry" copies were then set aside by church elders from the other often read "compassionate" copies and preserved for any number of reasons, perhaps as examples of bad behavior by "foolish knaves."  While the correct copies were handled so much that they fell apart and were discarded.  Just look at your own bookshelf.  The books that last the longest are the ones read the least.  It is an incorrect assumption on Ehrman's part that the oldest known copies were the only copies written at that time.   
Regarding the differences among the four Gospel accounts:  If scribes were so prone to make the Gospels sound alike by changing them, why after 2,000 years and countless hand copied manuscripts are there still differences in accounts of events, such as when Jesus died in relation to the timing of the Passover meal or what garments were found in the tomb after the resurrection?  
Also, could some of those "lost Christianities" which competed with what Mr. Ehrman refers to as the prevailing "proto-orthox" views have failed the test of time simply because they were wrong?  And if history is suspect anytime it is "written by the winners," schould we also be inclined to doubt the holocaust or the failure of Soviet Communism?  Perhaps Mr. Ehrman thinks that slavery got a "bad rap" from an historical perspective.  Maybe he will start rooting for the Chicago Cubs.  One can only wonder.

In defense of Mr. Ehrman, I will say that his writing style is engaging and lively, and not totally without fact.  But he does give away his agenda at times, which makes me question his credibility. While he is no Dan Brown, who still stands behind falsehoods to bring Jesus "down to our level," Mr. Ehrman seems to have an agenda he doesn't wish to share with us in his book.  It is not uncommon for secular Bible scholars to attack the KJV simply to shake the foundation of the "religious right."  After hearing Mr. Ehrman interviewed on NPR, that is exactly what I think he's doing.

It is expected that a growning number of "secular fundamentalists" will applaud anything that contradicts the New Testament, rejoicing in not having a God looking over their shoulders and telling them who they can and can't sleep with
