"The Island of the Day Before" is a sad relic from a talented and brilliant author.  Certainly people will go on praising Eco (as they should), but TIDB remains a flacid exercise in overplotting.  Eco has become a sort of literary Andy Warhol - selling his name more than his work.  In trying to achieve a Kafkaesque "portrait of an instant", Eco merely puts on display what was better left as a study or exercise to be burned after his demise.

The Island of the Day Before lacks virtually all of the elements that make a story worth reading.  Indeed, Eco's inversion of the rules of good fiction is the main attraction for his works.  But in The Island of the Day Before, the reader must trudge through all of Eco's autoerotic complexity solely for the sake of that complexity.  Following is a parody of the sort of nonsense that permeates this book:

"Robert opened the door to the cabin, and was confronted with the object of his dread.  From the planked ceiling hung a hemp rope, knotted every three inches with an inverted half-stitch, each pinned through by a tortoiseshell ladypoker scented with ambergris.  At the end of the rope, approximately four feet from the floor, and thus fourteen hands from a point bisecting a line drawn between Robert's right elbow and the cleft of his chin, was a metal hoop.  The rope was fastened to the metal hoop with an overwrapping style, which Robert immediately recognized as the "Bosun's Burgher" favoured by the Patagonian fishermen.  The metal ring was welded to a torus, and the center of the torus circumscribed a small teak box with a brass hasp and seven lotus shaped inlays.  Each of the inlays contained a tiny portrait of one of the seven sybils standing on one of the seven hills of Rome, but only five of the sybils were depicted with their hands upraised.  The other two sybils hand their hands clasped behind their backs.  The first of the sybils with upraised hands was holding a rod, which twisted along its own length, with radial spikes of hexagonal cross section, each of which was terminated by an inverted cusp which was in turn pierced by a crescent.  The ends of the crescents spiralled back in upon themselves, but they alternated, with some facing right and some facing left, and still others, in a trick of the artist's skill, facing directly toward the viewer's navel, no matter where one stood...
