In the case of Coulter, it appears that she's a love her or hate her author.  It's a matter of preference -- not a case of one side being right.  Eleventh hour is not a treatise on investigative technique or a vehicle to make you feel an emotional bond with a character.  It's fluffery where the undeveloped characters just happen to be FBI agents. 

I've read only three of Coulter's books.  The first, I purchased, not knowing anything about her, but looking for a new author.  The second, I purchased, telling myself that she was a popular author in the genre and I hadn't given her a chance with just one book.  The third (this one), I received as a gift that I couldn't return.

Coulter's charm?  Somewhat interesting plots.  

Coulter's shortcomings?  

She doesn't develop characters.  None of the characters in Eleventh Hour go beyond one dimension.  Having an FBI investigator whose name is "Sherlock" is about as subtle as Coulter gets, and about as well as she develops a character.

She requires you to suspend belief and to disregard anything you've learned about criminal investigation or the FBI from any other source.  Right, an FBI agent would permit a homeless woman to assist with the investigation and to tag along.  Happens all the time.

The dialogue is stilted, drags, and doesn't resembly anything you've ever heard anyone older than a first grader say.  She doesn't research a topic enough for the characters to say anything remotely technical.  A typical exchange may go like this:  Jane said "Why are you going into that building across the street from us that is painted green when there is a very bad man inside?"  John said "I am a stong 6'2" FBI agent with a gun that shoots when I pull the trigger and I put many big numbers of metal bullets inside it this morning so it will go 'pow'."  

If you want light reading and don't want the emotional or intellectual burden of character development, realistic dialogue, or characters who act in a remotely plausible manner, then you'll be quite satisfied
