As neither a conservative or liberal I was interested in what the book would say and how it would document and factually support its arguments.  As an ex-college debater I think I can say with some authority that this book does not do what it claims to do.  If you were to rely on this book in a formal debate you would lose.  Let me give you 5 examples of why I come to this conclusion.

1)	Documentation is thinner than appears.  Chapter 8 on healthcare has 20 endnotes.  But 12 of those footnotes are duplicates often citing the same single page in its source.  So the book presents 8 total sources on the topic.  But of the 8 remaining sources 4 of them are editorial/opinion pieces on the topic.  So, at best, the chapter offers 4 fact sources for a discussion of national health care.
2)	Undocumented quotes and poor quoting practice.  A large number of statements attributed to people and research institutions without attribution.  Page 354 ". . . illegal aliens used 10 billion more in government services than they paid in taxes in 2002 according to a 2004 Center for Immigration Studies . . . "  No endnote.  You have no idea of what the sources actually said and where and when they said it.  Also often you will see one person quoted in another's book.  Again you don't know what the source actually said, when they said it, and what else they said.
3)	Straining at gnats.  Page 156 ". . .the more traditional and evidentiary teachings of creationism/intelligent design (vs evolution) . . ."  Although this statement is something of a sidebar in a discussion of education, such a sweeping and factually incorrect statement without even a footnote is just amazing.  This is not atypical.
4)	Confusing fact with opinion.  As I mentioned in 2 a large number of Mr Jackson's book are opinion pieces.  Although the books he sources may all be fact filled, looking at the publisher list (Crossways Books, Andrews & McMeel, WallBuilder Press, Kregel Publications, Prima Publishing) indicates vanity press and self published sources.  
5)	Failure to update.  Very few of Mr Jackson's statement extend beyond the 2002-03.  As such his discussion about Iraq and the war on terror seemed particularly dated
