I found this book collecting dust on a bookshelf at a friend's house.  I asked my friend if she'd read it and she said, "Not yet, but it's a Patterson, so it must be good..."  Wrong-er words were never spoken.

This is the first Patterson novel I have read.  I am glad that I borrowed it from someone rather than bought it myself.  I suggest that if you insist on reading this, than you would be wise to do the same.

Let me just say that I don't enjoy giving bad reviews, but this is perhaps one of the most poorly written novels I have ever read.  I feel compelled to warn others so they can be spared the disappointment I experienced.  Maybe because it was "co-written" by this Gross person, but it just seems that this book was written too quickly, with the characters and the plot as a mere afterthought.  

I kept reading, hoping that the story would get better, but it siimply did not.  When one of the characters was in mortal danger, I found myself thinking "who cares?"

This boring read has an utterly predicitable love-story woven throughout, and again, it seems pointless and cheesy.  One reviewer put it best by saying that this book is more like an outline of a story rather than a comprehensive novel.  

The plot twists are predictable and uninteresting, and you sort of want to root for the bad guys because the main characters are soooo boring and flat.  The sentence structure is so elementary that I was surprised that this was written by an accomplished author and not a sixth grade English student.

I am by no means a "book snob" but I cannot believe that someone would review this book with a 4 or 5 star rating.  It is just beyond me.  If you are looking at the writing alone, it is terrible, not to mention the unbelievable events that take place.  Main character Boxer is always in the right place at the right time and everything comes together so neatly that you just cannot believe any of the events could possibly take place.

I know that a lot of die-hard Patterson fans will probably give me bad ratings just because I didn't like this book, but I am trying to be as honest as possible.  

Maybe some of his earlier works are better?  Well, I guess they couldn't be a whole lot worse in any case
