"Many people would say that the task I am embarking on by writing this book is doomed to failure."  That's the opening line of the book, and I wish one of those people had talked to me before I bought it.  Fortunately, I only paid $6 for a used copy.  I'd probably take $5, except that I've never resold a math text since my freshman days decades ago.

Sabbagh has basically written a math book for those with neither mathematical knowledge nor the intention to acquire it from his book.  It bears the title of the greatest unsolved problem in modern mathematics, but it has the flavor of a survey course for non-technical P.E. or liberal arts majors.  He rambles at length about Lives of the Mathematicians, nibbles around the edges of peripheral topics like continued fractions, and spends entire pages on patronizing oversimplifications, like his description of the complex plane.  

On at least one occasion, he strays from sloppiness into explicit error:  On page 288, discussing infinite series, he observes that the set of prime numbers, like the set of all whole numbers, goes on forever, "yet they can't both have the same 'number' of members (called terms) since one series is included in the other."  This is simply, howlingly, false, as it is a *defining characteristic* of an infinite set that it can be placed in one-to-one correspondence with a proper subset of itself.  That is, the "number of members" in the set of prime numbers (more rigorously called the "cardinality" of the set) is denoted Aleph-one, the "smallest" infinity; this is also the cardinality of the set of all integers, or the set of all even integers, or the set of all integers consisting only of the digits '7' and '8.'  

So, even though it looks like there are only "half as many" even numbers as there are numbers all together, you can simply associate every integer 'n' with the corresponding even integer '2n' and thus every element from one set maps exactly to an element of the other, with none left over.  Hence the "number of elements" or cardinality of both sets is equal.  Less straightforward mappings work to show equality in the other cases.

Sabbagh goes on for over three hundred pages, and nowhere coherently summarizes the whole Riemann Hypothesis and its mathematical underpinnings, which he could certainly do in maybe one chapter, and which I could probably do here ultra-briefly if I had a charge number for a couple of hours.

I love math--and loved it recreationally back in junior high, long before I had any degrees or great knowledge of it.  This is the first and only book written for adults I've found this useless.  Think about a documentary on some obscure detail about the sex habits of a tribe you've never heard of on the other side of the planet, edited for a PG rating and broadcast in your second language.  That's how much of the Riemann Hypothesis you get here.
