The main problem with this book is its lack of scope - translating a single sadhana from an Indian collection. Sadhanas are a type of text that are largely generic in format and content, and the present case is no exception. Therefore, English's study offers very little new material to either the academic or religious forums. With her confessed lack of knowledge of the Tibetan vajrayana tradition, English is unable to consult any of the vast array of primary sources on Vajrayogini, relying instead principally on correspondence with those learned in the Tibetan tradition. 

Despite polite comments on the back of the book by Janet Gyatso, its hard to see how this would be of real use to academics, since there is very little contained within that has not been previously translated from texts within the Tibetan tradition, except perhaps a few previously unknown forms of the deity, which is really only of minor significance to academia.

She justifies her lack of scope by saying the academic community needs in-depth studies focussing on specialist areas. However, if we are to have a 500 page book on every sadhana in the Indian and Tibetan tradition, there will be a lot of wasted paper. 

A large section on the book - the controversial claims about the influence of Saivism - is simply reiteration of her tutor Sanderson's earlier work and presents no new insights.

What would have been of interest is a discussion about the Vajrayogini 'byin-rlabs' or blessing, the initiation ceremony unique to that tradition. English barely mentions this, avoiding it on the grounds that it is rather complicated. Similarly, there is little discussion of the Tilopa lineage of Vajravarahi or Gamapopa's subsequent modification of it, again one of the areas of the Vajrayogini tradition not so far widely discussed in the West.

It is hard to see how Buddhists will benefit from this book which, whilst written for academics, is clearly being marketed towards Western Buddhists by the publisher. If they seek teachings on Vajrayogini from academic books ordered from Amazon.com, its clear they are pursuing one set of teachings whilst ignoring others from the Vajrayogini corpus (esp. the Vajradaka explanatory tantra) which explain all practices must be received from a qualified vajra master, i.e. lama. 

English suggests a better name for this sadhana collection would be Vajrayogini-sadhana-mala. I would suggest the original title, Guyha-samaya-sadhana-mala (i.e. secret commitment), was more than adequate; its a shame she didn't consider what the compiler was clearly recommending!

I'm not sure which is sadder - the fact that there is another book selling the secrets of the esoteric vajrayana tradition, or that Oxford University is now issuing doctorates for such guff.
