Beyond the Influence injects the reader with exhaustive detail the effects of "the drug alcohol" on the human body and brain in both alcoholics and nonalcoholics.  A psychologist author and a recovered alcoholic paint a clear picture that alcoholism is a true medical disease rooted in abnormalities in brain chemistry.  The audience is clearly directed towards teachers who are in treatment clinics.  Page after page it fatigues the reader with information that anyone with intelligence would have knowledge of but never before took the time or forced to understand the steps to take for an intervention, to find the right treatment program or how to prevent a future relapse.  Looking at the bigger picture sparks the idea that it is not only a lucrative business in supplying a legal drug as alcohol but writing books or establishing treatment centers to reap the wealth from the victims even more.

 
Charles Darwin in the book, On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, gives the impression that evolution is about the survival of the fittest.  It makes sense why Katherine in chapter four writes that for hundreds, even thousands of years, people have argued loud and long that alcoholism is a shameful personal weakness, a stubborn character defect, or a symptom of some underlying moral disorder.  In a world filled with labels to counter attack chaos and confusion it is very interesting in how life itself operates.  The world in its natural state rests pure evilness. With norms and labels humans put daily pressure upon each other to separate the strong from the weak.  The effect causes some to fall and when this happens some turn away while others flock like vultures to the "weak" in order to either reap the wealth or make themselves feel more excepted. People wish to be settled:   only as they are unsettled is there any hope for them.

  
Thanks to Katherine everyone can rest easier knowing that it is not 100% their fault since she does point out that alcoholism is a disease of the body, not a weakness of character. In the future will we ever see the one million march with flags stating that alcoholism is a disease, so therefore its time we started treating it like one? The truth is that our finest moments are most likely to occur when we are feeling deeply uncomfortable, unhappy, or unfulfilled.  For it is only in such moments, propelled by our own discomfort, that we are likely to step out of our ruts and start searching for different ways or truer answers.  With this said maybe the norms and labels that are pushed on newborns from the time being born do serve a purpose. In a blameless society maybe it is easier to point out that a river runs through us, and that river is called alcohol, instead of pointing the finger back at ourselves from the chaos that we have created among the thousands of years. The march will never be seen and yes the argument that alcoholism is a shameful personal weakness will forever exist and Charles Darwin at the end was correct that evolution is about the survival of the fittest
