If on the one hand, Schmitt's book does contain some brilliant insights - especially in its last pages, where it criticizes liberalism as an inconsistent form of political doctrine - on the other, it seems to me, when all is said and done, the meditation fails its main purpose, which is to show something about the essence of politics.

Because the essence of the political is indeed present in the Freund/Feind situations, but these are only two extreme possibilities of political alterity, which, however, do not exhaust the political field. A profounder and more challenging approach to the notion of the political is that of Max Weber in "Politik als Beruf/The Vocation and Profession of Politics" (1921) and Hans Morgenthau in Scientific Man vs. Power Politics (1946) / Politics among Nations (1948). Their depth resides in their approach via the notion of power. The exercise of power over fellow beings is the true rub of politics. How well did the North-American founding fathers grasp it too!

Schmitt's extreme polarity, to me, is Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan with new garb. And I was quite glad to see evidences in favor of this guess: in the original version of Der Begriff des Politischen, published in 1927 at the Archiv Journal, Schmitt states that Hobbes is the -only- truly systematic political thinker. This compliment was diluted for the text's final version, published in 1932, in which Hobbes appears as "a truly systematic thinker".

Schmitt and Hobbes stand together in their view of man as a power-seeking creature by nature, a hostage of passions and egotism. So far, as the basic generalization, no problem. But then Schmitt goes on to repeat the same faux pas of Hobbes' Leviathan in regard to the solution identified for this condition. Hobbes fell in the trap of proposing the symbolic figure of the pact, by which individuals sacrifice their aspirations in the name of the king, who, in exchange, shall protect them against hostilities from abroad and promote well-being. This, of course, for a political context quite different from the XXth century. In any case, Hobbes' politico-theological thought has little or no room for internal dissent. At the end, in his view, human `reason' and the Scriptures converge; Schmitt agrees with him.

Here are the two implicit errors I see in Hobbes' view of the `Pact'. Firstly, the implicit expectation that humans will be able to sacrifice their passions and ambitions with a view to order and peace, as if they were free. And they are not. Whatever the political system, their desire for power will make itself felt and seek satisfaction. The second implicit error is the expectation that the king will be neutral and can be trusted - once more, the Founding Fathers are called to the scene, the Federalist 51 being their top gem. What guarantees do we have about the king? Is he not a human being just like the others, power-seeking, a hostage to his passions?

The flaw of Hobbes' `philosophy', then, is that its solution does not solve the problem it identifies. What Hobbes does is merely to raise - suspend - project - in a word: procrastinate - the state of nature onto the international arena, without changing its supposed essence. One would then have - if premises were truly followed - communities under pact from within, and without inner dissent, at war against all the others. Thus the logical extension - and here is Schmitt's insight, perhaps unconsciously: within the body politic, in the case the state, there could then only be friends and foes to the will of this body's head. And among the other bodies politic, as they interact, there could also be only friends/allies and foes.

