Before I begin, I'd just like to clarify something. I'm not sure which page this review will end up on - the page for the first edition, or the second. It belongs on the page for the second.

The first edition is the one with a plain yellow cover and a small picture of a typewriter in the center. It's the plainer of the two. The second edition is the one with the glossier cover, and a co-author as well as Robert J. Ray.

That being cleared up, I'll begin.

I've owned the first edition of this book for several years now. I've worn it to shreds - it helped me write my first novel, dig me out of writer's block, and give me the drive to search for a career in writing. The margins of the pages are all filled with penciled-in notes, and I know almost all of the exercises by heart.

So when I saw that a new, expanded edition had come out, I was estatic. 

It was only after I bought it and sat down to read it that I remembered the true, if slightly cliched, saying: "if it's not broken, don't try to fix it."

The new edition of The Weekend Novelist has tried to become too many things. The first edition does what it says it will, and it does it with a quiet grace. This book is full of large, black letters, and assurances that writing will the most difficult thing you've ever done, that it almost certainly can't be done, and that it shouldn't be attempted. 

In an attempt to cover more types of novels, the new edition has introduced two new forms of plotting your novel. In addition to the old, linear Aristotle's Incline, there are two new forms: the circular Hero's Journey and Mythical Journey. This would work well, but the references to different points in them are vague, it's difficult to tell when you should use the Journey plots, and the information isn't very coherent. The first edition used one book (The Accedental Tourist) as an example, and it worked wondefully. The new edition uses dozens of books as examples, the result being a large, difficult-to-wade-through mess. I was constantly forgetting which book was which, and having to flip back to find out. 

Robert J. Ray's first edition was beautifully written. It praised the act of writing through writing, and it quietly stole your respect. This new edition, like I said before, seems jaded. It makes every part of writing sound like a difficult chore. Instead of inspiring me to write, it made me frightened of my own notebook.

Perhaps the thing that I was most dissapointed in was the book's lack of structure. The first edition weaves all the exercises together seamlessly. This one is confusing - the pieces don't fit together. You'll be left with a series of exercises that aren't coherent, wondering how on earth to connect them all. 

And it doesn't even get you to the end of your novel! The front cover guarantees you a completed novel within a year, but this new edition completely demolishes the chapters about the second and third drafts. It makes vague references to them - but then, after you've finished the first draft, it gives two small, frustrating chapters about memoirs and screenwriting - not about novels at all!

This second edition has definitely changed for the worst. The exercises are still good, but they lack something to pull them all together. There are lots of conflicting examples, and the whole tone of the book is depressing. Buy this book, but buy the first edition. It's the real masterpiece
