A lot of reviews focus on the main character Thomas Covenant.  From the reviews I read some people love Covenant, some hate him and others love to hate him.  I thought he was a bad character but for a different reason. Personally I don't find him fleshed out enough to be believable so I didn't really pay attention to what he's feeling and doing during the story and I realized that I wasn't missing anything!  For two books in a row now he's been this unwilling character that  gets dragged through the plot and doesn't actually have an effect.  Ok so in the first book he rapes a girl at the beginning and at the end his magic ring does something but in this one he literally does not do a single thing!  As in the first book he takes up a lot of description because he's constantly angry, sad, guilty, etc. and we have to hear about it all the time but now he doesn't even have an effect on the story.  The characters would have done the same thing without him there and it's for that reason I think he's a bad character.

Aside from Covenant there are several other characters but since they're not the main character they're even more shallow than Covenant.  They just don't have real personalities.  The author makes all of his characters go so quickly from being incredibly scared or sad to mastering their emotions and taking charge.  It's just not realistic.  Sure, it's fantasy, but that doesn't give an author license to create characters that are all mentally incomprehensible!

A friend of mine loves this series and for him I went ahead and read the second book but I almost didn't make it through and the reason for this can be summed up in two words: As If.  The 'as if' construction is Donaldson's favorite.  I'm not exagerating when I say he uses it 2-3 times per page.  Not only is it annoying to constantly read this but a majority are needlessly added.  For example, instead of saying that the smooth, reflective water "looked burnished", he says that it's "as if the water were burnished".  The sentence on its own perhaps isn't so horrible; it's a little wordy and it adds an oddly hypothetical connotation to the description, but when this type of thing happens once every three paragraphs it becomes fairly annoying over the journey of 500 pages.  At other times the 'as if' constructions just don't make sense.  At one point the main character has fallen and is, "lying prostrate on the floor beside the coffee table as if he had fallen off a catafalque."  What is a catafalque, you ask?  Another quirk of Donaldson's is to get out the dictionary and thesaurus to use unnecessarily obscure vocabulary.  I don't know if he's trying to impress his readers but to me it read like when a child uses the Thesauras to vary their vocabulary and they end up misusing words.  According to Merriam-Webster a catafalque is, "an ornamental structure sometimes used in funerals for the lying in state of the body."  How does a catafalque affect the way someone would fall?  He could have fallen from walking, from lying on the couch, or from a catafalque and still be lying prostrate in the same way on the floor - so why go with some obscure word no one's heard of?  He's lying next to the coffee table; we get the picture.  Move on.  

This book could have gotten a 1 but I reserve that for books that I don't finish and somehow I managed to get through this one.  I don't think I'll be attempting the third book in this series
