I'm a fan of Gould.  I've read nearly all of his books that were collections of his monthly articles in Natural History magazine.  I like his style and topics.

However, "The Structure of Evolutionary Theory" (TSET) is not a good book.

First, it is very poorly written.  We know Gould can write plainly and clearly, since most of his Natural History books are plain and clear.  But the sentences in TSET are overly convoluted.  It is obvious that he has fallen victim to PhD-ese, whereby the author tries to impress his peers with verbosity and complexity.  "Gee, if I (the reader) cant understand it, it must be a really advanced concept!" is what Gould is shooting for.

Second, sadly, he spends a large part of the book defending his theory of Punctuated Equilibrium against attacks from its detractors.  Gould sounds very defensive in these chapters.  He takes the attacks on his pet theory way too personally.  He even accuses the attackers of being jealous.  This kind of childish petulance is not suitable for a book that is ostensibly a serious academic tome.  Sure, punctuated equilibrium is an okay concept, but let it speak for itself.  Let it get judged in the area of ideas.  But dont spend hundreds of pages begging for it to be accepted.

Third, the book does not cleary summarize major evolutionary theories.   Although he does touch on major evolutionary concepts, he does so in prose only.  This is science, so I expect numbers, charts, figures, tables.  A picture is worth a thousand words, but there are very, very few pictures in this thousand page book.

In summary, it appears that Gould is trying to establish a legacy as a serious and important scientist.  Unfortunately, he appears to suffer from some kind of inferiority syndrome:  he is afraid that history will record him as "merely" journalist that had a gift for explaining science to the layman.  The sad thing is that his popular layman books are outstanding, and he did not need to write TSET to secure his respect in my mind.
