In his Preface, Robert Cantwell tells us that this book is addressed to "a former academic colleague, a tepid, retiring gentleman who...through a third party...suggested that if I wished to advance in the academic world I should probably not write about bluegrass at all."

Unfortunately, in his quest to prove that bluegrass is a fit subject for serious investigation, what we end up with is a rather dense treatise that is just flat out lame in places. 

For example, in describing the scene backstage at a country music show in Maryland in 1977, the author sees fit to comment on country great Jack Greene's "beer belly" and Jeanie Seeley's "peach-like rump and insistent breasts," but conveniently fails to mention the hideous, unkempt sideburns Bill Monroe sported during the same period. (In fairness, if Professor Cantwell's musical education had included the live LP, "Ernest Tubb's Texas Troubadours-Hittin'  the Road," which contains Jack Greene's outstanding vocal on "Afraid to Care," chances are he would have arrived at more balanced view of Bill Monroe versus all other Opry stars.)

Other puzzling observations abound, especially in his "technical" discussions of this or that musical type. For example, on page 108 he tells us that "bluegrass is more strictly bound by song structure than jazz," which is not true. Jazz is every bit as song-bound as bluegrass: it's just more advance harmonically. And if the listener knows the song in advance (e.g., Thelonious Monks' "Ruby My Dear"), he or she will have no trouble following the changes, regardless of how much improvising is going on. Later, we are told that "improvisation can be carefully planned out in practice and carried out in performance," which strikes me as a contradiction in terms (if it's planned out in advance, how can it be called improvisation?).

There are minor irritations, too, such as the misspelling of jazz violinist Stephane  Grappelli's first and last name, which makes the reader wonder just how familiar the author is with his subject.

Anyway, if you're looking for a good general overview of bluegrass, I recommend "Bluegrass: A History" by Neil Rosenberg. Rosenberg's book is highly comprehensive without being "technical." In my opinion, a good "technical" book about bluegrass is yet to be written. 
     
