Can you say "sanctimonious hot air", boys and girls?  This author should know better. I only got through the first few pages of this while I was bookstore-browsing one day before I tossed it aside with a roll of my eyes.  Kitwana completely misses the point.  The "loss of a mainstream cultural identity among whites" doesn't turn these kids onto hip-hop.  Nor do today's underclass whites' socioeconomic status (identifying with being a minority) and being raised in more racially-integrated neighborhoods solely make them idolize and mimic rappers.  

The reason Eminem is the biggest selling rap artist today among white youth is the same reason Elvis and the Beatles were huge in the 50s: APPROPRIATION, black American creativity in the Arts and Music arena is a CASH COW.  We live in a Capitalist society, we worship the Almighty $$$, and any time there's money to be made off of the popularity of some new thing, it is pimped out for all it's worth.  Everything is for sale here and inviting any other theory for this "whites loving what blacks do" argument is akin to spinning your wheels in a ditch. One major support for my opinion is this: blacks had to do much assimilating into the white Anglo-Saxon culture of the U.S. in order to achieve success, wealth, and equal representation of their civil rights under protection of the law.  "Survival of the Fittest" in a social context is common sense - adapt/adopt the ways and habits of the ruling class to raise yourself and your family up, and you will be tolerated (but still not truly welcomed, trusted or appreciated). 

Black culture, marketed and sold as an image, a lifestyle, to other races is a big moneymaker because interracial love and whites with blacks is still taboo to many (and I daresay MOST) people. All sorts of bizarre, racist lies and jokes are still popular (just not PC) and feed the psychological flames of fear of the unknown. The psychology of racism works both ways - as a tool for fear, hatred and ignorance (the three-headed dragon that never dies) and as an emotional vessel for the expression of exotic sensuality, sexuality and rebellion.  I call it the rape of the African queen, but that may be too harsh for some.

From the antebellum period of the 1600s when slavery was constitutionally protected, up until the Civil Rights Movement, whites have always admired, patronized, supported and profited from black art forms, not just Music (Jazz, Bebop, Rock and Roll and the Blues before Rap, all of which have deep roots in Afro-Caribbean culture) but our achievements in the Sciences, in Engineering, Sports, Medicine, Education, Dance, Theatre, and so on.  Even when black American athletes were treated worse than dogs in the street at home, they were sent to Greece in the 40s to participate in the Olympics, because EXCELLENCE cannot be ignored.  It is costly to hold talented black people back, and when they excel, they are considered ASSETS (instead of second-class citizens or property).  But it's still all about money. 

Americans must have the most short-term memory of any other creature on the planet when it comes to race.  Either that, or they just like living in a dream world.  Books like this one try to convince the reader that there's something going on other than white folks turning a buck off of hard black labor (akin to the slave days).  The fact that now, in today's society, more blacks have education and affluence, have more equality under the law, and can make nearly as much money as "The Man" (lol) doesn't change the reality that CAPITALISM makes it all possible.  It's a conceit there's anything else going on BUT the mass exploitation of race.  There's always been a strong, historical undercurrent of attraction/revulsion of whites toward blacks, this dangerous sexual paradox, and it continues to this very day.  This book should be four pages long, at the most, with a picture of Al Jolson in blackface on a $100 dollar bill. Or, better yet, Eminem, since our TiVo, Xbox, Internet and Ipod generation of profligate youth don't study their own history (unless it's about war or Christianity) and wouldn't know who Jolson is.  

Even though I don't mean to equate ALL Rap music as Minstrelsy, to a disturbingly large degree, the most anti-social, anti-law, violent and "proudly thuggish" Gangsta Rap is an update on the stereotypical Black Menial, all brute strength and raw sexuality, but no brains.  Gangsta Rap is self-destructive, but it is based on something all men love - the extravagant power of the Mafia.  A dark-skinned millionaire with gold teeth, dressed in a suit and tie (or track-star party clothes !!!), spending all his money on jewelry, cars and mansions, carrying a Glock - this is the updated Black Buck of the 21st century. Like Shaft, dangerous and cool. And we can all appreciate a scary "urban" legend.  Besides, Christian values are full of duality - white/black, good/evil, rich/poor, and this is one way for whites to celebrate that walk on the wild side.  To play with fire but not get burned.
So out of a compulsive Liberal-guilt-for-white-privilege complex (which is self-pitying behavior) or a delusion that the differences between whites and blacks no longer matter (which is insulting), many young whites co-opt black styles until they grow tired of it, subvert it, or find a way to exploit it themselves.  I'm just letting you know how this works through a CAPITALIST perspective.  It's just business as usual.  And I guess after my explanation, it still must be said that to most black people, Jewish people are white people, too.  We don't differentiate. 

The use of the terms "wangsta" and "wigger" are laughable and obnoxious at best, not damaging to any white person's psyche, because they're still white, no matter what music scene they're into. There are sociocultural reasons.  Many whites grow up in mostly black neighborhoods, and like any other group in that environment, many of them learn to take on the appearance and mannerisms of the prevailing ethnic group.  They "talk in ebonics" and throw up gang signs to be ironic... is this odd behavior funny to the rest of us not raised in these environments?  Sure, you bet.  We love to poke fun at people who don't quite fit.  Human nature, I guess.  But this book doesn't even begin to articulate or provide any measures to eradicate the problem of racism or classism.  Classism combined with racism is worse these days.  Rich white kids especially think it's cool that they can somehow "be down" and "get gangsta" with disenfranchised black kids, which is really downplaying the seriousness of the social disparity among blacks and whites, as if the world's just a great big ferris wheel of stupid fun.  Some would say maybe it is and I need a sense of humor.  But tell you what.  Instead of reading this book, read a book by Dr. Cornell West or Tony Brown instead.  Even "Soul On Ice" by Eldridge Cleaver.  Then you'll begin to understand why whites love rap music so much. And why most blacks still mistake flattery for fellowship. 
