Not having read any of Vonnegut's work for 30 years, I opened A Man Without a Country and remembered why I'd SO assiduously avoided him. As a natural conservative I much enjoy the thrust and parry of lively political debate. But KV, like almost every socialist I've ever met, doesn't do debate, preferring mockery, innuendo, myth and wilfully distorted facts. It's the superior sneer of the self-styled intellectual who doesn't know what he's talking about. His unwavering belief in doctrinal socialism brings to mind a line from Emerson: "Foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds."

His defence of Marx, beginning with religion being the opium rather than the opiate of the masses demonstrates his willingness to distort language. That he then manages to blend the benefits of Marxist ideology with the evils of slavery left me moderately bemused. (The American Indian, who cause he champions, was something of a proto-Marxist and quite happily used slaves.) His obsession with slavery and the inference that the United States was uniquely guilty of it is symptomatic of historical revisionism at its most banal. Slavery is a millennia-old, worldwide phenomenon, with a reasonable chance that most of us have distant ancestors who suffered it. But during the period he's most exercised about villainous white slavers didn't mount raids into the interior of Africa, they purchased stock from coastal chieftains who enjoyed vast profits from the sale of fellow Africans. And who, after parliament made not just the trade but the ownership of slaves illegal in Britain, wrote letters of howling protest to the crown that the new law was going to ruin them. Just as Vonnegut ignores the complicity of Africans in the trade, he also omits that it was white European stock that lobbied against and eventually outlawed what had existed in Africa long before the arrival of the first Portuguese explorers, and continued long after it was banned by European and North American governments (or that it still exists amongst the Arabs and West Africans today). Unsurprisingly, he overlooks the enslavement of over a million white Europeans by Barbary corsairs between 1500 and the mid-1800s. Spain and the Italian city states suffered the greatest depredations, but the North African raiders seized thousands of Irish, Cornish and Welsh and not an insignificant number of colonial American seamen. (See Christian slaves, Muslim Masters, Robert Davis, Palgrave MacMillan, 2003)

Vonnegut decries the "135,000" deaths in the bombing of Dresden, deliberately ignoring that German academics now put the figure at closer to 30,000. Which is bad enough, but ol' Kurt not only prefers the discredited number, but makes no mention of the 60,000 British civilians killed between 1940 and 1945 by German bombs, V1s and V2s.

His horror over the deaths of some 200,000 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki doesn't include the 300,000 deaths in Nanking to Japanese bullet, bayonet, gang rape, and burning or burying alive, or the three million Chinese who died during the invasion and occupation of their country by Imperial troops. Or that Allied soldiers, PoWs, and enslaved Asian labourers were dying at the hands of the Japanese right up to the day after that big flash over Nagasaki. Balance is not one of Kurt's strengths.

Comparing Americans with Nazis ("And with good reason.") is simply fatuous. Not even the most virulently anti-Bush liberal leftie hyperventilates at the prospect of the USA invading Luxembourg or Andorra.

"Our president is a Christian?" Kurt asks. "So was Adolf Hitler." In fact, Hitler had the same disdain for religion as Marx had. The future Greater Germany was to be religion-free.

His many references to the evil of oil might have at least a hint of resonance if I knew this great sage hasn't driven a car, used the subway, boarded a commercial flight, or used an electrical appliance that wasn't powered by his own wind-driven generator in the last 30 years.
 
And then...oh hell, there are so many more examples of the woe-is-me-a-lone-voice-in-the-wilderness-that-knows-how-evil-America is. Vonnegut belongs to that genre of Western self-loathers who have benefited enormously from the capitalist system they hate. You'd think he might have considered settling in Sweden. Maybe he was put off by the socialist tax rate he'd have to pay. 
