If you're an insecure enough parent that you need Michael Bradley to tell you the whole
family problem is that just that "your teen is crazy" so that you can evade facing your own
issues, this book is for you. I worked with children, teens, and parents for 10 years
(directly in their homes on a daily basis; not, like Bradley, by seeing them in my office
once in a while), and I can tell you there are a lot more crazy grownups out there than
crazy teens. In fact, teenagers get along with their parents a lot better than parents get
along with EACH OTHER (proof: our 60% divorce rate). Last year, California law
enforcement offices responded to nearly 200,000 domestic violence cases, the vast
majority involving adults over age 30. 

If Bradley can't summon empathy for the several hundred thousand children and youths
who are confirmed as violently or sexually abused by the parents every year, the several
million who live with alcoholic or addicted parents, and the tens of millions who suffer
severe family conflicts before and after their parents' separation and divorce, he needs to
get out of his comfortable office, toss his arrogant theories in the trash, and take a hard
look at the real world.

I looked up the terrifying teen statistics Bradley presents, and EVERY ONE OF THEM
IS OUTRAGEOUSLY WRONG. He (or whoever he copied) just multiplied numbers of
gun deaths, drunken driving wrecks, suicides, etc. shown by the National Center for
Health Statistics by 400% or 500% and stuck them in his book. The rest is no more
accurate. In particular, Bradley fails to mention the real statistics: ages 35-54 (the parents)
now have soaring violent death rates far above those of high schoolers. A teenager is
twice as likely to have a parent get into a drunken accident, three times more likely to
suffer a parent who commits suicide, 10 times more likely to have a parent die from an
illicit-drug overdose than the other way around. Bradley can't seem to see this--and he
incessantly trashes teens as "crazy"?

Reading this book was like listening to stereotypical seventh-grade alphas ridiculing the
"retards." Bradley's name-calling is so obsessive--he berates teenagers as "crazy,"
"stupid," "nuts," and brain-damaged in frenzied repetition on nearly every page--that it's
pathological. He sounds confident and tough, but this book is ultra-permissive when it
comes to ignoring the rotten adult behaviors that underlie rotten teenage behaviors.

Having said this, I respect and admire good parents. Good parents know they're not the
blameless victims Bradley excuses and that conflicts with teens are nearly always a
two-way street. Parents who need help maturely seek it from therapists who will hold all
parties accountable, not just encourage them to dismiss every problem with their
teenagers as caused by their "large, brain-dysfunctioned children." It's no accident that
arrogant, tough-sounding books like this are popular in a time when grownup
misbehaviors and disarray are skyrocketing and kids are dealing with more troubled
families than ever. After reading authors like this, I wonder if the never-mentioned side of
"brain science"--the deterioration in key memory and learning genes and loss of cells that
accelerates after age 40--is causing the real craziness we should be worried about
