I made myself wait two days before writing this review hoping that I would be able to view this book in a better light but it is just not going to happen.  I had originally read the only other review for Murder at Shots Hall before purchasing it and expected that it would be just the perfect cozy mystery which I love so much.  I find that I am going in the polar opposite direction from the other reviewer.

This book was originally published as Green December Fills the Graveyard but the title has been changed by Rue Morgue Vintage Press to better define the book within the mystery genre.  (For anyone interested in the second Sarsfield mystery it was published as A Dinner for None in Britain and as A Party for Lawty in the U.S.  Rue Morgue has retitled that selection as Murder at Beechlands.  Just a little information so you will not accidently buy the same book multiple times.)

I did not like this book.  I am very irritated with myself because I even finished it but I wanted to see if I had spotted the murderer.  I'm also sorry to say that I had but not the reasoning behind that character being guilty.  I thought I would scream if I read one more time that Flik was lovely, just lovely, so lovely, really lovely, a lovely woman.  Why was she lovely?  Surely the author saw something in her imagination which made Flik lovely.  Her hair, her eyes, her skin, her figure, her hands, her feet???  What, what, what???  We are just told ad nauseam how lovely she is.  And that every man "fell" for her.  Once again, why?  This story all takes place over a very short time, a matter of days, and every single night the fog came down so that no movement could be seen, so thick that it actually dripped off people.  This village was six miles from the sea and yet the salt in the fog stung skin and eyes.  Really?  Now that's a long way for salt spray to travel.  But of course I'm forgetting.  Every night these poor people had to endure gale force winds (just to make it more interesting).

This book is so full of stupidity that I could spend all day trying to relate it all.  Several examples:  (1)  The SCOTLAND YARD INSPECTOR told the constable left on the premesis to take his boots off and walk around outside in his socks at about 2:00 am (in the mud, rain and howling wind) so that he would not wake Flik up, she needed her rest!  (2)The doctor (who had lived within a three mile radius of Flik for many years but had never met her until the first murder) actually almost balked against going to check up on a newborn infant whose parents thought he was dying because he wanted to go check up on Flik.  (3)A broom comes flying out of the air and manages to hit a police constable smack on the head while he is wallowing in the mud (again during all that howling wind and rain) in the middle of the night, in the middle of a muddy road but nobody can figure out where the broom came from and don't even really believe that it happened.  I'm telling you, my list could just go on and on.

When push came to shove, Flik was hiding two "dreadful" secrets which she could never allow to be revealed and so was willing to go to prison for murders she had not committed.  When the secrets were revealed they were pure piffle!  Nobody cared.  It's for sure that I didn't.

Detective Sergeant Arnoldson was a truly abhorrent character.  So much so that it made no sense for the powers-that-be to allow him to stay on the police force.  He had propositioned Flik several years previously for "special favors" after he rescued her from her burning bedroom after a bomb struck Shots Hall during an air raid.  (He spotted a military man's mess kit beneath her bed.)  She had turned him down and he was resentful and liked to gossip about her and insinuate that she was not a "nice" lady.  I got sick and tired of hearing about his red, sweaty face and his wet lips.  He also broke the law in his treatment of Flik during the murder investigation and yet his superiors put up with him.  Once again, my perennial question is WHY?  

Well, now I've vented my spleen and I feel somewhat better.  If you still want to buy this book after reading my rants, go right ahead.  I bought the book based on one 5 star rating.  Now you have an entirely different assessment.  Happy decision making
