When a book that is so provably fictional as CROW KILLER is praised repeatedly for being "true" and "accurate," the review says more about the values and fantasies of the reader than about the book.

CROW KILLER is a vicious racist diatribe that perpetuates a comic book view of the fur trade. Johnson wasn't a "mountain man," he was one of the jackals who drifted in a generation later to pick the bones--a buffalo slaughterer and a wolf killer. And a racist among men who understood the Indians better than most.

Vardis Fisher's MOUNTAIN MAN has a good deal of racism in it, but Fisher manages to maintain a distance between his own values and those of the mountain men. He gives the Indians a chance to tell their own story, and he tempers the cultural racism of the mountain men with their firsthand knowledge of the people around them. JEREMIAH JOHNSON goes even further in that direction, and that, for one thing, is why I consider the Redford/Pollack film the best of the three works.

The Indians in Fisher and Redford's stories are real people with intelligence, courage, and a way of looking at the world that is different from ours but not inferior. In CROW KILLER, Indians are stupid, vicious (and look who's talking), subhuman. Poisoning forty Blackfeet warriors is, you see, a joke. Any REAL (that is to say, "white") man can kill them in handfuls.

Get over it. The mountain men were no more glamorous that Hell's Angels or that vicious little twerp Billy the Kid (Michael Pollard, folks, not Val Kilmer, Kris Kristoferson, or Paul Newman). They went west to get rich, just like the grubby gold-mad prospectors we don't idolize at annual "re-enactments."

They went west because they were too sociopathic to survive in civilized society, and they admired the Indians because they appeared, to the outlaw white, to be a lawless ("adulterous", as Chris Lapp says) people. And libertarians, like Fisher, worship them because they are so utterly self-absorbed, self-important, and "free" of society. And romantic city boys, their drawers damp with admiration, called their manifestation of sociopathy "freedom." Right, like the "freedom" of meth-lab enterpreneurs on their Harley vibrators.

So if you enjoy racist humor and violence, and you love perpetuating stereotypes about Indians, and you want to admire somebody who, if he really were who you think he is, would beat you to a pulp just for fun, go for it. But don't call it history, Ok? It's no more history than HUSTLER is gynecology
