To be fair, I enjoyed how the book opened up the world of science to many non-scientists. Written in a understandable and comprehensible way, the book brought to life the life story and persuits of many scientists driving to understand the essence of life: DNA. 

However, disaster struck when I got into the section about GM foods. It was clear that Watson was a great advocate of the new technology and he is entitled to that view. However, he utterly and horrible abuses the name of science and in his "scientific analysis" of Genetically Modified foods. First the refutes all protestors saying they have backwater knowledge of the area and that they are heavily influenced by politics. He goes on applies the stereotype that ALL protestors are from the non-scientific community and that they are professional trouble-rousers. This is ofcourse not true. 

Summary of Watson's "Scientific" analysis of GM foods:
He first states that the alternative to GM is persticides. By using Genetically modified crops, farms can stop using the extensive array of pesticides. Watson states that all pesticides are bad and horrible for the environment, EVEN the natural pesticides. This is probably true has me makes quite a few examples how what has gone wrong.

However, his second point is that by using genetic technology, scientists can make a plant product a natural pesticide in every cell. This pesticide found naturally in chrysanthemum can paralyze insects that eat it and they die a horrible death. He seems to say that such a natural pesticide is good because it's fund naturally in chrysanthemum (although he previous said that natural pesicides are just as bad). He offers no counter argument for such technology and goes on to call the European food agencies "lazy" for not embracing such a gene. Readers should think for a moment and consider that although the natural pesticide incorporated into all the cells of corn etc is not dangerous, there are many other examples where other pesticides are incorporated into our food. In such a case, no matter how much you was a plant, you can never wash that pesticide away! Science needs to be applied with extreme caution. 10 years of research might not reveal what dangers some chemicals do to us in the long run. For example, when X-ray was first invented, no-one knew of such dangerous so people took x-ray pictures of their full body for fun! Not surprisingly after 30 years these some these people developed horrible cancers as a direct cause of the x-rays being taken. The implementation of a new science must be made with extreme caution and the public has every right to be suspicious of it.

Another argument made by Watson is that we have been manipulating genes for centuries in the cross cultivation of plants (therefore GM is safe and anyone saying it is playing good is a hypocrite). However, I must remind you that GM is completely different from genetic engineering where scientists have complete control over what they want to produce. In some cases scientists can have finer control over cross cultivation, but I must remind  you that when our ancestors selectively breeded different species of goat wheat to make the wheat we use today, it took many generations of patient work. Now with a new technology, we can suddenly create a new species out of thin air and plant them with our nice machines. Therefore if we created something that wasn't good and didn't know about it, the results would be devastating cause we would be dealing with a mass of new species all around the globe instead of just our backyard.

Watson also claims that GM foods will help solve the world hunger problem. This is not the main and state aim of GM foods, it is merely a side agenda of big companies like Monsanto who is more concerned about getting a constant supply of income from farmers. I must remind you that GM foods is propelled by capitalism. Capitalism is good until it something messes up such as in the great depression. However, when genetic engineering is concerned, far worse catastrophes can occur if technology is too rapidly implemented. What if the "terminator gene" made all the plants on earth unable to reproduce in 60 years? Such inter-species mixing is rare but it does happen. The world hunger problem cannot be solved at the cost of world annihilation. The technology will eventually mature, but maybe in a few hundred years not a few years. 

There are many more examples where Watson plainly ignores the counter argument and just makes a biased counter attack for GM foods. I must remind readers to read this book with extreme caution. GM foods are not as safe as the book makes it sound and you are not an uneducated myth believer you object to GM foods
