As author Deborah Davis notes about herself in her prologue to PARTY OF THE CENTURY, I, too, remember hearing about this fabulous event when I was a child. I was intrigued by it then and, though I can't say that I've spent the intervening forty years pondering this gala, I was glad to have the opportunity to read a tidily organized report of what had gone on there.

Too, having enjoyed the author's earlier work, STRAPLESS, I had every reason to expect a good read.

Bluntly, it does not seem as if there's enough material in a ball, even a grand ball, to fill an entire book, and PARTY OF THE CENTURY simply confirms this theory.

On one hand, it is fascinating, from this vantage point, and after this passage of years, to read about some of the movers and shakers who had peopled gossip columns long in the past.

Still, to fill out a book, the author must resort to devoting whole chapters to minutiae, such as how the department store Bergdorf Goodman organized its couture department. While this information actually is interesting, well-researched and well-organized, ultimately it has precious little to do with the party. 

In fairness to the author, there cannot be much left to say about either Truman Capote or about his party of the century. There are biographies about Truman, and memoirs by his intimates, there are Broadway plays, films and literary criticism. To find new material, the author--understandably--had to mine arcane and barely germane details.

This sketchiness shows up even in the editing and proofreading. Sentences do not end in periods, some sentences are repeated more than once consecutively, certain facts show up over and over--clearly the result of different chapters having been written at separate times but, still, a good editor should have caught these multiple repetitions--and the author clearly is confused by the distinction between British nobility and British royalty.

The result is a mess, and this is a particular shame in light of how good STRAPLESS is. Of course, in STRAPLESS, Davis only had to cover the artist John Singer Sargeant and his subject, Madame X. In PARTY, she attempts to cover dozens of people and the result is a superficial mish-mash.

When all is said and done, PARTY OF THE CENTURY is nothing more than a series of separate pieces, similar to individual articles in those magazines Truman had loved so well. Any chapter could do double duty as a story in VOGUE, W, VANITY FAIR or the NEW YORKER. Obviously, these chapters are not bad--but what they do not add up to is a discrete book.

Nonetheless, PARTY OF THE CENTURY does offer a full report of Truman's famous "black-&-white" masked ball at The Plaza Hotel. With all of the additional detail offered, the book provides a good snapshot of a special place at a special time. As such, reading it well may be a worthwhile effort for anyone with a curiosity about the period.
