This I by far the worst Scarpetta book in the series. What a shame that Cornwell let this amazing series of books get away from her. First of all, this book does redeem that terrible ending to the preceding work, `Black Notice' in which for the umpteenth time Scarpetta foolishly allows a serial killer into her home for an inevitable dull climax. And this book does have a very engaging premise in which Scarpetta is the victim here on trial, and her name is being sullied. But aside from that, this book is a disaster. 

I hated the ending of Black Notice and was furious with Cornwell that she devastated a remarkably taught book with it. Other than that, I thought that the writing was the best she had done and was looking forwards to this new one because it seemed that Cornwell grew as an author from one book to the next. Also I felt that it was well past time that she tried to get away from the very predictable plot line that she has used in every single Scarpetta book up to this point. But for some reason, Cornwell's prose just falls apart here; it is dull and lengthy, without a shred of the suspense that I have grown to expect from this fine author. And the promising plot just collapses as she tries with all of her might to force it into the conformity and safe harbors of her past novels. 

Some of what I hated most about this book are that there is no detecting here, Scarpetta just happenstances upon the end solution, its as if Cornwell became tired of writing and just hurried through the last couple of chapters to bring this book to an end. Secondly, Some of what could have made this book interesting, such as Scarpetta's supposed guilt over a murder from `Black Notice' never becomes a full-fledged possibility. Instead Cornwell skates around this alluring plot, spending half of the book building it up, but never pushing it over the edge. Thirdly, what's the point of having any extra characters such as Lucy or Marino? Marino never seems to add anything but bluster, why does Scarpetta always say he is the greatest homicide cop ever? All Marino ever does is leap to the wrong conclusions. Secondly, Lucy and her Last Precinct firm never get off the ground. Why was the Last Precinct firm even in the book? What did Lucy do to help her aunt?

The only interesting thing this book offered was two interactions. One was with the psychiatrist Anna and the other was with the ADA Berger. Both of these scenes either reminiscing over WWII or walking through some evidence were well done. 

Cornwell, if you read these, break the mold. Do you have to have serial killers in every novel? Do you have to follow the same plot line? 
