Poor John Searle. He'll cling to freewill mysticism no matter how much empirical evidence renders the concept nonsensical. He goes to great lengths to describe the evolutionary and biophysical aspects of brain functions but then throws it all out the window by invoking some vague notion of emergence as if it can somehow displace large-scale neuronal activity. So how does an interconnected system of neurons generate freewill and hence destiny-controllability? Searle has no answer. He basically just says it pops out of nowhere. Neurons require activation, at what point do they start magically activating themselves spontaneously to generate freewill? The answer is they do not and the sum body of neurological research bears this out. Herein lies the critical issue. Without freewill humans become nothing more than highest-order primates and the concept of "ethics" and "moral choice" are totally negated. "Choices" now become complex neurocognitive reactions. Human beings become no more responsible for their behavior than any other biological organism. The moral concept of "individual responsibility" is displaced by the causality of complex genetic and environmental variables which determine the patterns of human social behavior. Freewill advocates like Searle are deeply afraid of these implications. Searle is disturbed by the notion that he can no longer hold others morally accountable for their unwanted behaviors. Conservative economists can no longer blame the poor for being poor because they aren't using their freewill to become economically productive. And, of course, the religious community becomes apoplectic at the thought of not being able to morally condemn the heathens. Searle's pontifications under the guise of intellectualism are nothing more than an attempt to cover up his fear of his own total lack of destiny-controllability. Even the word "free" itself is an absurdity. There is nothing in the known universe that conforms to the concept of being "free". All known phenomena have causal relations to other myriad events and just because an abstruse phenomena lacks a detailed explanation does not mean it has become "free" from causal relationships. Searle is afraid that without the concept of freewill society will degenerate into some sort of anarchic hell. Searle along with the other philosophical preists of freewill are on the verge of extinction. It is only a matter of time before developments in neuroscience render the concept of freewill in league with the concept of a flat earth, probably within the next 50 years.
Get used to it John you have no choice, literally.
