Walter Wink is an author whose name I first came across in N. T. Wright's magnum opus on the New Testament, and whom I finally decided to read after I saw him quoted in a few of Stephen R. L Clark's books (two Protestant sources, that'll teach me.) The idea of a multi-volume work devoted to an understanding of the mysterious language of the powers in the New Testament sounded very appealing, and I decided to give the author a chance, however suspicious of him I might have been in the first place.

Much of the volume is a rather meticulous exegesis of the passages of the New Testament that refer to powers and principalities, and I did find some of it useful, because it uses a very exhaustive database which shows that Paul is far from being the only author to use such terms. Unfortunately, for the Catholic reader, the constant use of non-canonical sources (such as the Gospel of Thomas and other Gnostic works) makes it very difficult to get a clear picture of what the actually inspired sources say.

But Wink's exegesis is not what I found the most debatable about this book. What I find most worrying is that nobody seems to be bothered by the fact that Wink poses as a Christian exegete while actually expounding pure, undiluted Marxist doctrine. Indeed, his book looks like a test to determine how thin the sheep's clothings need be and still fool the sheep.

To put it simply, Wink interprets the scriptural (and non-scriptural) language of the powers as having two dimensions : it can be both concrete, referring to actual forces in this world (like governments and corporations), and abstract, referring to what he calls the spirituality of these powers, but seems to boil down to their ideology.

Nobody seems to have noticed that Wink is using here a variant of the Marxist concepts of superstructure and infrastructure, and though in some places he claims to have an enlightened, monistic understanding of those two dimensions (based on spurious new-physics notions, p107), he often betrays his true materialistic reductionism, as when he says (p134) that "the actual spiritual quality [is] exuded as it were from the value systems and power relations in the existing state." In other words, as in Marxism, reality is basically a clash of material forces, and spirituality so-called just an outgrowth of those forces.

Wink's Marxism is further demonstrated in his repeated attacks on capitalism as an economic system which holds people in subjection (p125) ; his attribution of the evils of Russian Communism to habits inherited from Tsarism (p117), while a "true humanism" lies at the based of Communistic ideology (p116) ; and more especially his description of his own current effort as an attempt to "synthesize the valid elements" of both "classical" Christianity and Marxism (though given the predominance of matter in his ontology, it is easy to see which element of the mixture will have the upper hand.)

That Wink is a pantheist he admits himself, though he does so under the cover of "process theism." Here is the full text of his confession : "If there is no spirit without its concretion ... then classical theism is wholly inadequate as a metaphysics, for God could not be conceived of as existing apart from God's concretion in the physical universe. God, on this view, would be something akin to the Soul of the universe, and conversely the universe could be spoken of as the body of God." (p124) That so-called "God", by the way, seems to be primarily interested in "maximizing the total situation" in which his creatures exist (p119), whatever that means.

And of course, if God Himself is thrown out of the system (Wink's pantheism being just a thinly veiled atheism), the soul cannot be expected to survive as an eternal, spiritual entity. Indeed, as he claims, "Today almost everyone (sic) agrees that ... the soul or self is the active awareness of the entire living body itself."

"Naming the Powers" appears to me to be just another attempt to dechristianize the Christians and turn them into full-fledged, this-wordly Marxists with just a smattering of Biblical (and pseudo-Biblical) references, as filtered though such deviants as Teilhard de Chardin or Elaine Pagels. I cannot see how reading it can do anyone much good, unless the reader is further left than Wink himself (which should be rare outside of North Korea, Cuba or France.)
