Wow- Laughable.  What's funny is that some of the things they say are true- but they make them sound so bad. LOL  For example we are setting up to take over the government.  The true belief is that someday Christ is going to come again and create his own perfect government.  That's not the "mormon's" government- that's Christ's government.  There is also the worry about so many LDS people involved in the CIA and FBI.  Do you know why that is?  It's because LDS people are honest and have good language skills (Often from serving as missionaries in foreign countries).  The government knows that if they want to hire people who are the most moral and honest- then they should hire a good LDS person.  
As far as the money is concerned- do you know what it is used for?  People involved in the LDS church do not get paid for their services.  The Bishop of your local LDS church does not get a salary or any kind of bonuses.  The money goes to build up the church by putting chapels in places where there are none, to providing food for the poor and clothing for the needy, for helping people in catastrophes (such as Hurricane Katrina and the tsunami in Asia), and for building religious buildings (such as temples) and providing a religious education (like for the students at BYU).  
If I am wrong for loving my fellow-man, keeping my body clean (no alcohol, tobacco or pre-marital sex), and loving Christ and God, then I don't want to be right.
If Hell is full of "Mormons" then it's probably not too bad of a place- because most of the Mormons I know are pretty darn nice people and have pretty darn good values.  LOL
Read this book for it's ridiculousness, not for it's true content.  
Someone commented that it doesn't make sense to ask someone about their own beliefs because they will give a biased review.  Well if I want to know the truth about my neighbor- should I ask their enemy?  It goes both ways.  I say read this book if you want to- but you should also read a pro-'Mormon' book and then judge for yourself what is truth and what is fiction.
As an LDS woman I do not feel repressed, I do not feel like I have been brain-washed, and I do not feel like I am missing out on "truth."  I know that I have the truth in my life and I could not be happier.  I know I will be with my family forever in paradise if I live the word of the Lord and I know that God loves each of us with all of his heart- even the author of this book who is very misguided
