This book is flawed beyond belief!  First of all it assumes you have unlimited financial resources to fulfill all your desires and life ambitions.  Case in point: page 39-40, "Tania" wants more from her marriage than her husband is willing/able to give, so what does she do?... she signs up for 2 adult ed. classes, opens a checking account, joins an investment club, selects several mutual funds to begin an investment portfolio.  She then decides she can't cook, so after ending her marriage (thus making room for a new partner, who, of course, according to plan, appears), she finds a gourmet take-out restaurant, and buys a condo near it.  All this from a woman who, according to the author, "hadn't worked in years, had no interest in money nor any idea what her resources were."  Maybe this is where the new boyfriend comes in... maybe he's rich!   Nothing from the author explaining where the money came from for all of these luxuries... and believe me you'd have to save for years to afford gourmet take-out, or a condo!  Page 23 has you "imagining that you are financially secure and that money is no longer a struggle for you."  All well and good... we all dream... but that's not reality... show us how to get the money to do all the things in your book!  Page 66-67 has Karl wanting to compose and sell a hit song (gee, don't we all!).  Apparently Karl has a very understanding boss, because, since he can't focus on song-writing at home with other family members present, he's able to go into work 2 hours late twice a week so as to have that quiet time to write at home... please tell me where he works... I'd love to have a job like that!! Last, but by no means least, there is "Belle"... page 68-69... who wants to be more physically fit, so she joins several health/exercise clubs, hires a personal trainer who COMES TO HER HOME!!(wow! mega bucks!)... arranges for a vacation trip to the Rockies for her family, and then, of course, leads a walking group every day... hmmm... would this be at 5am before work, or 6pm after work?  

If I hadn't gotten this book from the library, I would have dumped it in the trash where it belongs.  Save your money!  It's quite obvious the author is wealthy and hasn't got a clue what struggles the average person has who doesn't have the money needed to do all the neat stuff in her book!  Get a clue people, pull yourselves up by your bootstraps, and get on with your life!  You have more inner strength than you know!  P.S... Amazon's lowest rating is a "1"... I would have given it a zero
