This book should be titled: Eugenia Zukerman's Coping with Prednisone.

Ms. Zukerman was on prednisone for 10 months; her sister is a MD with Mass General; they co-authored the book. The book chronicles Ms. Zukerman's experiences while on prednisone, while her sister provides the medical authority.  The book does a decent job of documenting the conditions prednisone is prescribed for, as well as a list of side effects.  However, I don't that many people are really going to care or understand the discussions regarding the different types of prednisone, chemical composition, etc.

For the most part, an individual on long-term treatment of prednisone is not going to find this book useful.  Maintaining a fat-free, salt-free, no foods with yeast, fresh fish, low carb diet for years on end is, in my opinion, unrealistic. 

Her experiences with side effects, are very accurate.  But my concern is, she does not provide any good coping strategies for the average person who is holding down a 9-5 job and does not have her financial resources. Many people cannot afford fresh fruits, vegetables, fish, and shiatsu massages.

I strongly disagree with advice recommending not to wax the face because prednisone makes the skin fragile.  High doses of pred will cause hirsutism, or growing of hair, particularly on the face.  As a woman, I cannot think of anything more horrifying than having a beard.  If you follow Ms. Zukerman's advice of shaving, you will have a beard.  I've waxed my face for the past 16 years while on prednisone, with no ill effects.

Lastly, the tone of the book is to white-knuckle, grit-your-teeth and stick it out until you are off pred.  Unfortunately, for many of us, there is no such end in sight. As someone who assists individuals with auto-immune disorders to cope with their disease and treatment, getting people to understand and be willing  to take prednisone is one of the greatest challenges I face.  Prednisone IS difficult to cope with with. However, there ARE  many realistic strategies for minimizing each of the side effects;  none of which are discussed in this book because Ms. Zukerman didn't face long-term treatment with the drug. 

My recommendation is, go to webmd and look up the medical side effects, and stay away from this book
