In the defense of Sundown Towns, they don't discriminate, they hate anybody that doesn't match the description of a local, and they're color blind when it comes to everyone. 

The problems always superficially are with titles; they provoke hatred. If we teach negativistic ideas we propagate skepticism with a constancy of the past through unending cultivation that only increases those who hate people in general. The antidote for breeding people into seeing good things (all people have goodness in them, its latent and its potential requires some gentle agitation, like running your clothing through the gentle cycle) is by omitting the bad in them, searching for any good, finding that good, and by incorporating it into your own character will enable you to become a better person. But it's in our habits we create this negative growth, this constant hatred in the world, and it's fed to us through; the schools, the government, TV, the internet and so on. And frankly, these things will never change, because they need people to continue to hate, it grows in all facets of our life, and it fuels the economy. Like these types of books that stir up controversy, they keep us stuck in hate. If these writers need to exercise cathartics, they should do it in private, but not forge their wealth with their thoughts and the negative thoughts of others, they can make more money with positive ones slowly going out into the future to win the race--the tortoise did. The only way to create peace with you is through self-genocide, and self-realization through definiteness of purpose. We need to re-channel our sense of learning with good thoughts. The way to battle any adversity, no matter what it is, is through immunity. Ignorance although negative in its definition can be used as water to put out a fire; it's a force when used in a positive sense to forfend negative things that were and still exist today. Reading these types of books is more like a negative exercise; you must fast not diet especially when it comes to your mind. 

Even in the sports world they thrive off of hatred and controversy, it feeds the drama and excitement of life negatively. They promote players like TO, and its this superficial patronage that goes deep down into the subconscious mind that resurfaces into a racial stereotypical hatred--it's an empirical experience that creates a temporary excitement, but a terminal hatred relative to that person's whole being. Why then can't they promote the amenable players, they far outweigh the negative ones and they come in all colors; why, because they don't want color to be transparent, they want it to be opaque, because opaque things are visual, and these icons play to the overall intelligence of the nation. Why not improve it? Why; because there's not enough money to be made in it. The emotional intelligence in this country is at its lowest, and even these sports conglomerates are taking advantage of the negative mindset instead of instilling a positive one. Systems and negative publicity will suppress you more than help, these are the Mother and Father figures, and the majority of the nation depends on them. Whether for drama or excitement, the corporations and people who write books like this one know it. Words like racism and prejudice are anchors; they will keep you down playing into them. If there's one thing to understand it's this; hatred exists, and move on to the good things in life by omitting them from your thoughts, you'll see, you'll be a better person.
