As is sometimes the case, the title of this book is somewhat misleading.  Having read several books which were generally favorable to Greenspan I thought this one might give a balance counter view.  Overall, it turned out to quite a disappointment.

In the first few pages Professor Batra made it clear that he thinks he is probably more qualified to be the Fed Chairman than Greenspan.  On page 1 he says "He had not done any path-breaking work in economics, at least not that was commonly cited."  On page 3 he says "It could explain how he had advanced so far without sufficient credentials; how his extraordinary career appeared to derive crucially not from merit but from favoritism and connections".  Also on page 3 -"Greenspan did not even have a Ph.D. at the time; nor had he penned anything pioneering to earn the recognition of his peers".

On page 7 I again knew the book was in trouble when Batra stated "...because in my view intelligence and integrity go together".  Does anyone actually believe that all dishonest people are dumb?  On page 9 Batra made it clear that the book was as much, or more, about his economic philosophy than it was about Greenspan when he wrote "In fact, I will offer a new economic paradigm to cure the global stagnation that has resulted from tax trade, and monetary policies inspired by Greenspan".  He does offer a paradigm; unfortunately, real world experience shows that the paradigm does not to work as he postulates.  Clearly, the book is attempting to put forth his agenda.

As the rest of the book demonstrates, Professor Batra is a fairly strong liberal in whose world the working poor will spend all additional income and the idle rich will simply put extra income under their mattress.  He regularly harps on reducing income taxes on the "poor" and increasing them on the "rich" and "big businesses".  As recently as 2003, the Congressional Budget Office documented that the bottom 40% to 50% of the population pay little or no taxes while the upper income individuals and businesses pay the vast majority.  How the government could reduce the taxes on people who do not pay taxes is never addressed.  Professor Batra does correctly point out that the Social Security tax is quite regressive.

In order to discredit Greenspan, Batra gives Greenspan gives Greenspan far more power than is warranted.  Throughout the book, Batra tries to convince us that the President and Congress did whatever Greenspan might suggest or support.  As written, the book makes one believe that Batra never watched Greenspan testify before Congress where the congressmen tried to get Greenspan to support their way of thinking.  Basically, Batra tries to blame Greenspan for all of the acts of Congress.

Batra's new paradigm he calls Economic Democracy.  In this Economic Democracy the Federal Government would buy most of the stock of the large companies and then give it, or sell it at a big discount, to the employees of the companies.  That way the employees would be in control rather than the CEOs and boards of directors.  Clearly, Professor Batra is not living in the real world.  In the real world most of the employees who were given the stock would simply sell it in fairly quick order and that, of course, would return things to where they originally were.  For many years I was an "employee owner" of the nations largest totally employee owned company and I can attest that they do not operate in any way close to what Professor Batra assumes.  The good professor needs to get out his ivory tower and get a job in the real world.

If you want to learn about Greenspan, this is NOT the book to read.  Save your money.
