I picked up a copy of this because of the number of people telling me that this was so much better than Conway's other poorly-done books. After reading it, I strongly disagree!!

Beginning in the introduction, when she incorrectly states that "the words Wicca, Witchcraft and the Craft are actually interchangeable", there is very little here that can't be found in dozens of other phoney McWicca-lite introductory texts. 

Her history is based on the myth that there was once a peaceful matriarchy, and everyone worshipped "the Goddess" until evil patriarchy came along and spoiled everything. She would do well to actually read some of the accurate archeological works listed in her bibliography!

She then proceeds to confuse the term "Paganism". In spite of the way she misuses the word, "Paganism" is actually a large group of related, but highly dissimilar religious. It is not a single path "based on a specific pantheon of deities", and there are certainly more than "only a few differences between Wicca and Paganism, besides the difference in their ages". (And NO religion can be dated back to the Stone Age! NO ONE knows what beliefs existed then, what their 'religious' practices were, or even if they HAD any religious beliefs!) She also defines many Traditions within Wicca inaccurately, and shows little understanding of the history of Wicca, or the various practices that define it's many branches.

When speaking of Deities, she first states that Wicca is polytheistic, then proceeds to "explain" that all Gods are a reflection of a single God archetype, and even the Gods are subservient to the Goddess. (That's not polytheism.) She also speaks of Triple aspects of Goddess, saying that this is a universal concept, and that it has been recognized "from the beginning of religion". This is untrue. (She has quite a habit of stating historical "facts" that are contrary to the archeological evidence, without saying where she is obtaining her "information". She also frequently speaks of conclusions of how found items were used or what they signify that are very different from what the scholars who are trained to interpret such finds conclude. Especially when the archeologists determine that NO conclusions can be made from the evidence available.)

In my opinion, Ms Conway's version of "wicca" is a blend of New Age thought, Ceremonial Magic influence, and poor research. While I don't doubt that it could be used to create a viable and valid spiritual path, it bears little relation to actual Wicca. If one wishes to learn about Wicca, I would strongly suggest starting with A Witch Alone by Marian Green, then moving to books such as Gerald Gardner's recently republished classics. No, it won't be as easy as what Ms. Conway has written... but *real* Wicca cannot be condensed into a 400-page how-to manual
