Professor Jenkins has written with insight and clarity on a number of controversial topics, unfortunately, while this book raises some important points, it is rather tendentious compared to his past works. At one point, he claims that the Clinton Administration's Health Security Initiative failed to make it into law because of the Administration's petty aversion to having the Catholic Church as an ally. This strange assertion will come as news to many, including Theda Skocpol, author of the most comprehensive study on the failure of the Clinton health care proposal. Elsewhere, Professor Jenkins explores the pedigree of anti-Catholic prejudice in America in depth, but he fails to do the same for Vatican hostility to the United States which has a long pedigree of its own. Despite the good feelings towards the Catholic Church in the United States at independence (due in part to French aid against the British) and the disestablishment of Protestant churches, the Vatican regarded the U.S. "as the bastard brat of Jacobinism" (to quote Samuel Eliot Morison) and warned against the heresy of "Americanism". This hostility persisted right up until the papacy of John XXIII. Also, during the 19th century, the Vatican made no bones about its opposition to freedom of religion, freedom of thought, and freedom of conscience. This hostility persisted right up until the Second Vatican Council. Unfortunately, while none of the Vatican II reforms have been formally rescinded during the papacy of John Paul II, they now seem to be as much a dead letter as the splendid list of rights embalmed in the old Soviet constitution. 

Nevertheless, it is deplorable that Roman Catholics have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in actions this book indisputably documents. Such treatment deserves condemnation wherever it occurs. It reveals a kind of disregard for others that endangers the most fundamental principles of a healthy society. But the proper reaction to outrages committed against Catholics should not be to claim that all who take a critical view of the church are motivated by prejudice. There is an immense and inordinate effort by the Vatican in some countries (e.g., Poland, Italy, the United States) to manipulate civil-statutes and to have its doctrines written into the secular law. Even when the Vatican's efforts may seriously threaten the lives and well being of a large number of people, (as in attempts to hamstring public health efforts against sexually transmitted disease) its advocates remain undeterred and refuse to consider the magnitude of the risks involved. Although the authoritarian inclination of the Church is not a crime, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered towards clericalism; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective threat to a democratic polity. When the Church seeks to illegitimately extend its power in democratic societies, or when civil legislation is introduced to confer privileges to which no one denomination has any conceivable right, neither the Vatican nor Professor Jenkins should be surprised when other distorted notions and practices gain ground, and irrational and violent reactions increase. Therefore special concern and attention should be directed toward those who have this inclination, lest they be led to believe that the subversion of the U.S. Constitution is a morally acceptable option. It is not. 

With all this in mind, decent Catholics should ask their Bishops to be especially cautious of any programs that may seek to pressure American law and society to abrogate the rights of any citizens, even while claiming not to do so. A careful examination of the public statements and the activities conservative Catholic pressure groups promote reveals a blatant duplicity by which they attempt to mislead Catholics and the general public alike. For example, they may present the teaching of the Magisterium as if it were the mandatory source for all secular laws. Its specific authority is held to be binding on the entire society. Some of these groups will use the word "democratic" to describe either the organization or its intended actions, yet they do not defend and promote the interests of American society; indeed, they even openly attack it. Those within the Church who argue in this fashion often have close ties with those with similar views outside it. These latter groups are guided by a vision bitterly opposed to American liberty and pluralism. They reflect, even if not entirely consciously, a 'sacral state' ideology that denies the democratic nature of the United States, as well as the rights of every individual. This does not mean that conservative Catholics are not generous and giving of themselves on occasion, but when they engage in seditious activity against fellow citizens, they confirm within themselves a disordered political inclination that is essentially self-indulgent. 

Jesus promised, "You shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free" (Jn. 8:32). Conservative Catholics (including the hierarchy here and in the Vatican) should have the truth about American society and its secular democratic culture clearly explained to them so they will stop denigrating it so incessantly. After all, without the defeat of Nazism and U.S. opposition to Soviet communism, the young Karol Wojtyla might well have been shot in a secret police cellar instead of going on to become pontiff. There has never been a society in human history that afforded so many--Catholics included--the opportunity to practice their religion so freely as the United States. However, Catholics must be trustworthy custodians of other's freedoms as well as their own. Perhaps Professor Jenkins's next book can take up this challenge
