Obviously both and Finnegan proves it. Joyce spent seventeen years on this book, which can be properly read and understood by only one person - James Joyce, who passed away in 1941.

Now if you'd like to devote yourself - and perhaps your life - to achieving an understanding of Finnegans Wake, you are certainly free to do so.  And, having once attempted  to achieve such understanding myself, I can assure you that some of your time will be well spent.  But the facts are as follows:

1. Joyce was fluent in a number of European languages and had a nodding acquaintance with many more.

2. From this knowledge he fashioned a special vocabulary of multilingual blends and puns which he used, with ordinary English syntax, to create the solipsistic discourse of Finnegans Wake. It is, in effect, a private language.

3. Since most of his vocabulary is drawn from, and puns on, the languages Joyce was familiar with, the only way one can begin to understand what's happening is to be as familiar with them as James Joyce. 

4. The entire book is said to narrate the mostly incoherent nighttime dream of its antihero, "HCE."  This was Joyce's way of "getting at" (whatever that means here) some sort of unconscious European cultural mind - as apprehended and imagined by James Joyce, of course.

5. Finnegans Wake is thus basically incomprehensible. The explications in Campbell & Robinson's Skeleton Key, while well informed, are, as the authors admit (though not in these words) the only sense they could make of it with the assistance of a shelf full of reference books. By getting in on the ground floor, C & W effectively dared anyone to disagree.  Which would, of course, require another pair of literature Ph.D.'s with another shelf of reference books. There can be more than one interpretation of Finnegans Wake, including a belief in the profitlessness of interpretation. 

6. Once in a while Joyce can still write a melodious sentence that is close enough to English to carry some meaning. As readers of Dubliners, Portrait of the Artist, and Ulysses are aware, Joyce was at one time a master of poetic English prose. Searching for the poetic moments, and those alone, makes for a pleasant diversion, and will undoubtedly reward the extremely well read and knowledgable.

If you're still intrigued, your best bet is to find a copy of the drastically abridged edition with commentary that Anthony Burgess put out forty years ago.  Burgess loved Finnegans Wake in the Campbell-Robinson interpretation, and he supplies enough editorial matter to aid you in your innocent quest to believe in Finnegans' greatness. The book may be  useful to some as a kind of Rorschach/I Ching for your own creativity: "How many puns and themes can *I* find?"

This book allegedly turned Derrida into a Deconstructionist. I believe it. Students of OCD and associated disorders should take a look at the entire Finagin Fannomenikonn, if you know what I mean. 
