My reason for buying this book: Katie MacAlister.  I love her books, she's always imaginative, and can always manage to make me , at the very least, chuckle a little if not laugh out loud. 
 I did neither with her story "Bring Out Your Dead". It had promise, and at the beginning I thought I might be able to get into it.  But spirit guide just killed it for me.  Nowhere on the book did it say that one needed a basic understanding of the French language to understand the dialogue in this story.  Sally the spirit guide is supposedly speaking some mangled version of her own type of french, and I gather from the other characters reactions to her dialogue that it is supposed to be funny. Not that what she is saying is funny, but the act of mangling the language is supposed to be joke.  But as I DON'T SPEAK FRENCH, I can't tell what she is saying, what she isn't saying, or what she is trying to say. 
 This same technique worked pretty well for MacAlister in a different book that featured a latin swordsman that spoke with spanish flourish, but the basic meaning of what he was trying to say came through, here it just confused the hell out me.I also think I prefer her full lenght books where she had the time to develop the history as well as the story somewhat more.   

Minda Webber's story was choppy and problematic with a twist of unrealism.  I know this is a paranormal book and realism shouldn't be called into question.  I am referring to relationship with Lucy and Val. Their conflict goes from being monumental on both their parts, to Lucy begging for him to tell her went wrong, with no real transition in between.  I just found it unrealistic that a somewhat strong character could go from one extreme to the other, with no catalyst for any kind of transition.  Also, and this is when I gave up forever on this story, she ends up on her knees begging him to stay.  Again, a strong proud woman on her knees begging for forgiveness when it was a mutual misunderstanding and she had some rights in being upset about what she saw.  It was demeaning to women.

  I don't know which more of slap in the face, Lucy as she "fell to her knees, taking his hand in hers and bathing it with her kisses and tears" all the while telling him she was stupid and sorry; OR the sheer volume of horrible hokey alliterations littered throught this short story.  I mean every other paragraph, sometimes two to a single paragraph; "villianous vampiress" "viperous vampiress" and others just as painfull go on forever. One or two = cute  One or two every couple paragraphs = sad and painful.  I was sorely disappointed.

On the upside, the first story by Jennefer Ashley did have some redeeming qualities in that there few if any alliterations and nobody spoke a different language without interpretation.
