To give you an idea of where Lipstadt is coming from, I need only recount what she called John Sack on Charlie Rose (see title of this review). In a phone conversation afterwards in which he reminded her that he had sent her a favorable note about her book, she told him (he said):  "You are worse than a Holocaust denier."  This should tell us all we need to know about Deborah Lipstadt's belief (or non-belief) in the indivisibility of the truth. John Sack painstakingly researched Polish concentration camps for Germans, mostly civilians where 60,000 to 80,000 perished, men, women, children, and babies.  According to his research, 3/4 of the camps' staffs were Jewish.  This is to be found in John Sack's AN EYE FOR AN EYE, whose facts have been carefully checked.  Lipstadt is a denier herself of historical atrocities that sort of provide some balance to the Holocaust. 

I wouldn't support seeing her treated as Irving, Zundel, and many others have been for real or alleged Holocaust denial because no one should be jailed for their reading or misreading  (even intentional misreading ) of history.  But what she does is in principle no better than what they do.  She denies other atrocities she doesn't want to believe in. 

But what is much, much worse is that she wants to deny any forum for those whom she targets.  She, herself, is even  worse than the Holocaust deniers, because while being a denier of another sort herself, she wants to shut up the other deniers.  At least they haven't tried to do that to her, with the possible exception of David Irving and his libel suit against her.  Still Irving has never advocated jailing people for their beliefs.  I'm not sure how Lipstadt feels about the many jailings in Germany and Austria for Holocaust denial.  But the only Holocaust denier or so-called denier that I know of that she says should be released from imprisonment is Irving himself, and her reason seems to be only that she doesn't want to see him made into a martyr.  That's not too impressive a record in supporting a humane, free society, my dear, not at all
