It can be said (and proved) that in life...nothing is linear. 

Nothing moves in a straight line.  Everything curves, bends, crosses, intersects and comes together and falls apart in a series of waves, explosions and tears throughout this reality (and all those still left to discover).  So, it comes as some (but no real) surprise that there is an expection to this rule and that expection is FEAR ITSELF by Micheal Reaves and (not good enough for the cover) Steven-Elliot Altman.

From the cover to the final page there is not one plot twist, turn about, curveball, surprise, or GOTCHA! moment to be found in this book.  As sure as B follows A there is no mystery here.  Who's behind the latest bio-terror generated fear attacks in Gotham?  What fiend is "thrilling" people to death with pulp fiction?  The cover gives the game away even before you turn to page one... and it takes Micheal Reaves (and shy guy) Steven-Elliot Altman nearly three quarters of the book to catch up to something YOU already know (and, I should point out here, that I lay full blame for this on the marketing department at BALLANTINE BOOKS, not on Reaves and (hide and seek) Altman.  I'm sure if BALLANTINE released a novalization of CITIZEN KANE, ROSEBUD would rest dead center on the cover - giving the jig up).  So, as Batman and company work their way fresh through the "mystery" the only thing you have to do is keep turning the pages and fight the urge to skip ahead to find out how this villain managed to do what he did and why.

Don't fight that urge.  Skip three quarters in and just finish the book.  Don't worry about who's who or what they have to do with the plot or each other, they're just company characters with cardboard problems and stock and trade payoffs.  It's so linear, so common and so mindless that it amazes me that it took two people to write it.  I assume one was there to wake the other if they happened to fall asleep while typing (which must have happened often).

If there is ever any more perfect example of SWEAT SHOP FICTION, then FEAR ITSELF is it.  A major disappointment here for BATMAN fans.  Avoid.

