I was really excited about this book.  I've been studying Islam for about ten years now and ride the cusp of converting so I thought this would be an excellent resource - a Christian convert to Islam who has a B.A. and M. Div. from Harvard would seem to be a perfect read.  I was horribly disappointed.

The title claims this is an interfaith dialogue.  That's stretching the term a bit; "outer" faith dialogue might be a better term for it.  It would seem to me that his information is as current as his MDiv degree which my guess would be dates back a far as the 70s.  It's as if he has merely rehashed that information, much of which is quite outdated today.

Here's his method.  Take the Gospels as we have them, strip away their roots, bring in the apocryphal literature as if they were concurrent with the Gospels as we have them, claim that there were many different groups fighting to represent the "true" Gospel and make it seem as if the power mongers won out.  Fine.  But his methodology is seriously flawed.  An example should suffice.

He dates the Gospel of John to 110 C.E. which is a pretty liberal date; most scholars, conservative or other, date it prior to 100 C.E. to between 80 and 95 C.E.  Take an apocryphal gospel such as Treatise of Shem, dated between the second and fourth centuries CE and claim that the earliest date is "most probable" with absolutely no support.  So late date the Gospel of John, claim it has been edited the most, take Treatise of Shem and date it to the second century (perhaps 110 C.E.) and what he's done is presented the Gospel of John and Treatise of Shem as two "gospels" circulating at the same time!  Bunk.

Other "fringe" ideas.  The Jesus we all know and love was not from Galilee.  The Jesus pursued in the New Testament was "a member of the Galilean part of paramiliatry insurrectionsts."  This is the Jesus that was arrested; when Peter denies "Jesus" three times he is denying this Jesus, not the Jesus we think.

At the trial, then, Barabbas, whose "real" name is 'Jesus bar Abbas' (i.e. 'son of the Father', i.e. our Jesus) is released.  Jesus the aforementioned insurrectionist is crucified thus confirming the claims of the Qur'an that Jesus was not crucified!  How 'bout that.  Though he does not claim this is actually what happened, he tosses it in there as a hypothesis.  He's really working it to make early Christianity fit in the Islamic scheme.  

The book is, quite honestly, a dismissal of (and insult to) traditional Christianity and introduces the other Christianities as being the more in line with the "true" Christianity (i.e. Islam).  That's fine but the title and intent is flawed at best, misleading at worst.

I felt as if I was reading the Da Vinci Code all over again.  Some of his sources are from the more fringe side of Christian scholarship, such as Helmut Koester (from Harvard, no surprise there), members of the Jesus Seminar, even drawing from Isaac Asimov.  The vast majority of his sources are dated prior to 1980.  Nothing wrong with fringe scholarship, don't get me wrong (see some of my other reviews), but he merely gathered information from high and low and everywhere in between in order to back his claims.  It lacks consistency.

It's really not well thought out at all and actually does a disservice to Islam as well as someone looking through these apocryphal gospels could simply make the case that Islam borrowed directly from them.  The other problem is that the very same Gospel he claims has been edited the most - John - is the very same Gospel that claims to be prophesying that the "Advocate" was really Muhammad!  

The only value in the book is that it does present what is standard polemic in many Muslim circles.  Overall, a tremendously disappointing book.

For a better in-depth discussion from Westerners who have converted to Islam, try Muhammad Asad, Murad Hoffman and/or Martin Lings
