In _The Second Oldest Profession_, Knightly got some things right; it is a pity that his vitriol and misunderstandings of intelligence overshadow and even outweigh this.

Knightly is correct in stating that intelligence agencies are a bureaucracy; and I agree with him that a bureaucracy's primary function is to preserve itself.  But his assertion that intelligence agencies therefore "create" problems for them to solve as the primary method to preserve themselves is a gross generalization. This accusation is particularly false regarding the intelligence in this country.  The job of an intelligence professional is to provide the best information possible.  In order for this to be of any value, it needs to be as objective as possible.  Any deviation from this dilutes its worth.  Knightly seems to have missed this critical point.

Knightly also argues that the return investment in intelligence is not worthwhile.  He argues because of the need for secrecy, budgets are kept under wraps, and therefore are a bottomless pit of funding with little to support the expense.  This, too, is disingenuous.  Due to the very nature of espionage, results are secret - therefore it is very difficult to fairly and accurately determine the value of what has been "purchased" (unless through oversight groups such as the Senate Committee on Intelligence.)  Nevermind that it is not uncommon for an "investment" in intelligence to take years before it bears fruit.

The author also cites failed operations as evidence of the uselessness of intelligence, and strongly criticizes the "mythology" of intelligence successes.  This, too, is unfair to the community.  Successes, by their very nature cannot be made public (lest they not be secret.)  That intelligence is "mythologised" is hardly surprising (given the precpetion in the mind of the public of what intelligence gathering is) - yet again, it is an unfair and unfounded accusation.

Knighly does make some good points, and certainly there is much that intelligence agencies can be criticized for.  However, his diatribe against the need for and value of intelligence rests on a weak foundation. 
