
Conason organizes chapters so each "revenges" (hallucinatory liberals' embellishment!) allegedly smearing accusations conservatives fling towards liberals. Displeasingly, this plan's appreciable from strict, coherence stndpoints. Conason's tone isn't as infernal in his monstrously devious cunning as his demeaningly liberal peers, who're ALL hazardously untamed in Bush-antagonism. Shyster Conason's still unforgivable in his slanderous pollutedness of scornfully branding rightists, when he defrauded in his unholy Introduction that his tripe WOULDN'T be narrow-mindedly adverse, like his ostracized peers'!!!! In Ch.7, dissuasively, his furious, up-to-then secretive partiality rears its UGLY head and savages ANY remediableness his "work" has of being reasonable.

Although Ch.8-10 are vilest, treachery in Conason's disrespectable "arguments" materializes. Conason stoops to untrustworthiness in his Introduction, when he incompetently forges that liberals are majority by misusing poll results regarding universal healthcare!!!! Conason vindictively neglects mentioning those biased "polls" occur ONLY during adverse economies, like polls last fall showed because of the economy's unprogressive downturn-which HAS rebounded.

Ch.1's depraved argument's flimsy. Conason dictates indiscriminately ALL CEOs are conservative prostitutes whose tax interests are subserved by the WH. Besides underhandedly admitting the conservative derogation of liberal disenfranchisement in business management, Conason's tarnish is fallaciously based. Assuming the WH crafts tax policy in CEOs' interests, this isn't necessarily alarming, as Conason combatively terrorizes. Refunds and write-offs for corporations are factually good, since this helps income. With expanding earnings, corporations will GLARINGLY hire to complement growth, employing Americans!!!! Provided you're liberal, you'll wrongfully find this blasphemous, which WILL reflect on you as undereducated.

Conason homicidally exaggerates choice facts, relentlessly prejudiced to liberal stubbornness. In Ch.2, he mishandles questionable "evidence" falsifying the LIBERAL MEDIA's conservative slant. Conason selectively seizes one unverifiable source, Editor & Publisher, to sinisterly further agendas of assumingly claiming conservative slant in media. What Conason hides is that survey involved opinions of editors/publishers regarding who they'd think would win 2000's election. Since most-indiscriminatingly-believed Bush, they were inclined to proclaim him since they realized the Gore-alternative was bleak. Conason fabricates upon embellishing that editors voted for Bush. A NARROW margin voted Bush. Conason conceals that survey asked said editors/publishers if they felt there was biased coverage. 80% of 25% who responded affirmative professed there was GORE BIAS. In another mistreated "source", Gannett newspapers, Conason bestially deceives their papers shifted towards right-wing endorsement despite their relative liberality. Before 2000's election, 13 papers turned Republican, so OF COURSE Bush's endorsements incremented, with the resulting discrimination of 41-votes-for-Gore to 37-votes-for-Bush still being worse Demoncratic prejudice.

Ch.3's idea's unlawful. Conason's the malcontent gall to mutiny against verifiable mantras of conservatives denigrating liberals traitorous!!!! All one's to do is bloodcurdlingly inspect Demoncrats' reactions to terrorism. They've bitched about "civil liberties" sacked by Ashcroft, Iraq's cost, keeping troops there necessarily, giving grants to Iraq, and American intervention to neutralize Iraqi terrorist and nuclear threats-even AFTER voting FOR war!!!! Not to mention Clinton's imposition of the "Torricelli `Principle'". Conason's amoralities descend further when he brutalizes conservatives for libeling Clinton the "draft dodger" he was. Conason encroachingly errs that Clinton's dastardly choice to evade Vietnam was acceptable due to his "disbelief" to war, while liberals tarnish Bush for his reasons of joining the National Guard, which at least was SERVICE!!!! Conason mendaciously involves secondary tactics of relying on filthily circumstantial examples when he plots to implicate conservatives as cowardly for avoiding Vietnam because of medical reasons. Conason abysmally covers-up HOWIERD Dean's ski-trip orgy after getting deferment from Vietnam!!!!

Ch.4 uses subterfuge in oppressively aggrandizing Clinton's "quite impressive" economical record, citing 4% unemployment, 22,000,000 "jobs" "created", and rising income. Conason mustn't fiercely scold Bush: Bush's 2003 tax-relief-the benefactor of 8% year-end GDP and 20-year high consumer confidence-is PRECISELY THE reason defamers like Conason shouldn't prematurely manufacture slurring in September, because he's dishonored now!!!! Clinton oversaw 350,000 INITIAL CLAIMS in January 20, 2001 (leftovers from Clinton's policies), and his "bullish" economy was shattered by calamitous ruination in markets, and high interest rates by 2000's end. Out of those 22,000,000 "created" "jobs", 92% were private-sector, forebodingly in unstable tech start-ups which contributed mostly to the markets' collapses. Because of the recession's length, interest rates under Bush culminated in 2002's record year for home sales-the strongest economic part which curbed the recession.

From Ch.7-10, inconsistencies become falsification!!!! In Ch.7, Conason preys on discriminatory, isolated incidents in Republicans' demeanors to fake "proof" of conservatives' immoralities. In Ch.8, Conason arraigns Bush's family as misconducting "Crony Capitalism", despite it applying to BACKWATERS whose dictators distribute favoring deals to friends. Bush's appointments are properly classified as nepotism. In Ch.9, Conason partially seizes thin connections of Bush to a "fundamentalist"-conservative professor, because Bush introduced his book, to frailly convict Bush of failing "compassionate conservatism". Ch.10's incontestably THE most ludicrous of Conason's uncleanliness. He bleakly invents Clinton was proactive against terrorism!!!! BWAHAHAHA!!!
