So Achilles stood up and spoke this winged words: Man... What the hell have you done? 

Jokes aside, that's not far from the "style" of this "re-telling" of the Iliad (of all things). At one moment I thought it was an adaptation for kids, but then I went back to Baricco's own introduction, where he defines clearly the range of his task: To rewrite it, "as I have done" (Actually, as Nick Tosches rightly points out in his review on the New York Times, the correct translation for Baricco's original words is: As I happen to have done. But his English translator did him a favor).

Every reviewer that praised this book has avoided , so far, to quote at least one passage from it. They usually spend more time brandishing their BA & MA in this and the other than presenting any valid argument for what they praise. Some think that because they can read Greek they are better judges. Why? The product they're trying to sell you is in English from head to toes. The writer himself knows no Greek and, besides, he is not attempting a translation (he could not do it) as he is the first one to recognize. Nothing wrong with that. One language shoul be enough to write a good book. 

So let's go directly to it and hear some characters speak. Take, for example, this famous scene from the very beginning of the Iliad. After nine days of hardship Achilles summons the army to a  meeting and, through Baricco's hand, says: "If things continue like this, we'll have to launch our ships and go home in order to escape death. But let's consult a prophet, or a seer, or a priest who can tell us what is happening and free us from this scourge."  

Now, compared to the Achilles presented here, Tarzan is a subtle master of rhetoric. But notice something else: Homer's "version" begins with the terrible plague that's decimating the Greek army. The plague is there because the Achaeans have taken Chryseis, the daughter of Apollo's priest, with them and unleashed the wrath of the god. Baricco is trying so hard to be post-modern, or post-post modern, or whatever stage of "postitude" we are in now, that he chose to get rid of the gods.  I guess the idea is trying to "see" the story from a human perspective (which is something Homer has troubles to deal with, it seems, since he had not read "How to Become a Novelist"), so Baricco cannot have Homer's terrifying image of Apollo descending from Olympos' dark crest, annihilating the Greek army with his arrows. The arrows are not literal, though, but an image of sickness; a way for readers (or listeners in Homer's times) to picture in their mind the way a sick man suddenly falls and dies.

Baricco could have used the plague, at least, since Apollo was associated with mice and pest (you don't need a Ph.D. to know that; a brief search in the Wikipedia will do) and could therefore be easily "converted" into todays' mythology of virus and coughing. But that still seemed like too much work, so Baricco kept the arrows only, and in two sentences deals with the whole thing saying that a lot of arrows flew, and that they killed a lot of people.

But they have been at war for nine years already when the book begins. The Achaeans have been laying siege to Troy since then . Suddenly a bunch of arrows comes out of nowhere (from the Trojans, I guess, but Baricco doesn't say) and Achilles, the mightiest of warriors, gets scared and suggests running away. It doesn't quite fit in. His fear in the face of the plague, which he cannot battle with his spear, makes perfect sense (Homer's version); but the touch of the arrows doesn't have the same effect (Baricco's version).

One reviewer gives Baricco the highest marks for leaving only the elements of the Iliad that are "still relevant to humans circumstances". We don't believe in Zeus anymore, she says. Now... In what world do you live in? There are countries at war right now which, among other things, are separated by different conceptions of divinity. There are people that still manage to mention God, politics and democracy (wow, how far we have come from these silly Greeks that we are still ruled by concepts first devised and tested by them) in the same sentence. We believe in "natural causes". But "natural causes" are found outafter a tragedy happens. Poetry is generally related to a direct experience of things. The point is, I think, that it doesn't matter whether you believe in Apollo or not, I even doubt that Homer himself (or the poets we call "Homer") believed in the gods the way he describes them (atheism is not a modern invention; Socrates was executed for something like that.); but he uses a powerful image to make you feel the weight of the "non-human" department of the universe (plague in this case--but think of last years' tsunami for example: we have the videos. Homer has only words to work with, to picture the awe and horror of a situation like that). And that gives you the "human" perspective Baricco is looking for and cannot find. 

Homer's vision of the Gods is humorous but terrifying: they are like a bunch of rich, spoiled, bellicose kids, quick to get angry and with too much free time. And the problem is: we are in their hands. That's Homer's vision, that's the world of the Iliad. But even today  wars are still being fought, friends are lost, lovers are abandoned and reunited, exiles are forced to leave their families behind and it is still hard to predict if tomorrow is really going to rain or not. Is there anything in the original Iliad that is not "relevant to humans today"?

Publishers Weekly calls Baricco's choice of telling the story from the first-person viewpoint of various participants an "ingenious touch". But his monologues seem borrowed from a 1930's Hollywood film. When he tries to be poetic, Baricco is, at best, hesitant. The worst insult Achilles can say to Agamemnon is: You insolent, greedy man (remember, this is a "modern rewriting" of the story). The first person narrative and the suppression of the gods are Baricco's pet-devices to give the narration the flavor of realism. But for all this "veracity" one can't understand, for example, why is Chryseis (who has been liberated and is already back in her country) the one who tells how Achilles  sits ALONE on the shore of the sea and calls his mother. Then she just appears to him  (But, Where does she come from? Who is she? She comes from "far away," but... How? Walking? In a canoe? Again Baricco cannot say that she's Thetis, one of the immortals, because they're banished from his book. Now and then a god's name is actually mentioned, passing by. After all, even if his author doesn't believe in them, his characters do, or should.

 The central problem of "An Iliad" is that Baricco didn't take the trouble of finding a "modern" equivalent for what he took out. This novel presents so little variations that sometimes you get the feeling that he was reading the Iliad for the first time and writing his book simultaneously, to save time. And publishers seem to be too busy at cocktail parties for actually sitting down to read a classic and see what the fuzz was about... all these centuries...

That's why some publishers can tell you that familiarity with the original text is not essential for experiencing this book. Of course. Not only it is not essential, it is not even desirable--so you can't compare them.

Now, let me make this clear: I am not saying that these kind of  projects should not be attempted. Stories need to be retold, reshaped, rewritten; movies and adaptations to new media should be encouraged, etc. All that is fine.  But you need some talent to tackle a great book without rendering it esterile. 

There is another contemporary "rewriting" of the Iliad worth mentioning: Christopher Logue's.  Logue has been working on "WAR MUSIC" for years, publishing it little by little, and he is close to finish it now. But he has a kind of patient ability that the author of "An Iliad" completely lacks (Baricco is famous now, they tell me, so I guess he can't waste too much time on one book; there are more to be made while the moment lasts). Logue (who also knows no Greek) also cuts or amplifies the story's incidents and also modernizes the imagery, but he succeeds in rendering the vitality and spirit of the original by looking for the details that are not in Homer but could have been (Baricco usually cuts, summarizes, or what he adds is as trivial as the fragments we saw). Check him out.

PS: In his Note to the Text, Baricco informs us that he is currently working on a similar rewriting of MOBY DICK. It appears that Melville is another writer that needs help to reach modern audiences --who probably no longer know what a ship, an arpoon or a whale are.
