Work outside the home or stay at home mom? --there is no one right way -- It is sad that people can be so close minded to only see their side as the "right" side.  There are many types of people and situations --there can't be one right way --and not everyone has choices.  Stay at home mothers may want a voice --but believe me, most working mothers want a voice --many act as though we work for our own benefit --yes, we may benefit in some ways --but many went to work specifically to benefit our families --things such as medical benefits, a decent neighborhood, etc. In the end, some may have been fortunate enough to offer other advantages such as educational opportunities or memorable family vacations after providing the basics --- Or perhaps, the opportunity for them to know their father who is able to work near regular hours since there is another income.  For some, having the father work extensive hours and have minimal time with the kids so that the mother is home works well to meet their goals.  For other families, it does not.  For mine, we originally had no choice --a bit over 16 years ago, I went to work leaving our one year old thinking I was doing a horrible thing.  I did it because there was no other way --my husband was a Architectural Draftsman making $15k per year (no med benefits).  Because we believed me being home was the right thing, we did everything we could to be able to have me at home.  He bartended on the weekend and took his office's after work janitor job when the janitor quit --I did accounting work at home and tried coordinating waitressing eves.  In the end, I had to go to work full time, we could not make it and we needed benefits.  The world was very unsupportive of me and made me feel like a bad mother for doing this --I did not want to leave my daughter, I did not want to go to work, my husband listened to me cry at lunch each day --I did it for my family.  --That one year old is now 17.  I also have a 12 year old.  I ended up continuing to work as by the time I may have had somewhat of a limited "choice", my kids were in school and my views had changed.  My working has brought benefits to my kids, my home and my marraige.  I have a very happy marriage of 20 years.  My husband is an active parent.  Have I missed previous moments because I worked?  Yes --and that does make me sad --but I also know I have had other moments that are valuable--and my kids have had significant moments because I work --with me and others.  No matter what, I am a happy person which I feel might be the most important ingredient to a good mother.  But that is me --what works for me and my family certainly may not be the best answer for all because we are all different.  I was fortunate to find a way of life that has worked for us. -- My kids?  Very happy, well adjusted kids who I am very proud of.  A couple days ago my daughter, senior in high school was discussing this issue and said I will definitely work --I was surprised and asked her why --she said that when she sees all her friends with stay at home mothers, the mothers seem very unhappy and do less for their kids than I do --(referring to college visit/app process, driving places, spending one on one time, working together, etc.)  My response was that you have to wait and see --you don't know what choices you may have --and being able to stay at home, if only for awhile can be a very wonderful opportunity --and -certainly -not all stay at home mothers are unhappy.  

There is no right answer and it is a very small and close minded person who can't understand that.  As women, as mothers, I hope some day we can support each other rather than knock each other down to make ourselves feel superior. 
