Yes, this a review about book 3, but in fairness to Sally Melville, there is a bit of background on why and how I got to book 3, and why I rated it one star. If you are seriously wondering if this book is for you, please be patient and read it all. This book is for some people, it has many great qualities, but it also has some serious drawbacks.

As a new knitter, I bought Sally's first book based on the reviews, and I loved it. The instructions and illustrations were excellent, and the patterns that could be made with just the knit stitch were surprisingly nice. Something I could see myself making and wearing. 

I was disappointed with the patterns in book 2. Enough that I would not have bought book 3 if I hadn't ordered them together based on how great the first book was. 

As soon as I put down book 2, feeling disappointed, I picked up the third book.  I was sure the designs would move away from the square, oversized  "I just learned how to knit" look. 

I couldn't have been more wrong. The instructions and illustrations were, once again excellent, and for that reason I'm keeping the books.  Except for the shawls, and tea cozy, the patterns can only be described as hideous. I'll practice the knitting techniques in the books on squares with left over yarn, then find patterns somewhere else for things I wouldn't be afraid to be caught dead in.

In book 1 she says she is rushing to get the other books out, and it shows in the designs in books 2 and 3.  It's a shame that she does a fabulous job of teaching the "how to", then pairs it with a section of "oh I wouldn't want to do that" 

Addendum 7/18/06  I was told that pictures in the book didn't do justice to the items when knitted, so I tried one. It does look *slightly* better, but still shapeless, and I won't wear it. I have to stick with my original rating.  A for instructions, Sally tops the chart here, but still F for the pattern designs. 

I would highly recommend these, though, for a beginner who is having trouble following the instructions in other books. The Sally Melville series will have you knitting like a pro. Just buy some very cheap yarn to practice the garments on. After that, you'll have the skills, knowledge, and confidence to tackle a great looking patterns with better yarns. 
