Just read the first few chapters and you'll see: Dwight is an indecisive mess. If he were a deep and interesting or richly amusing character, this could have worked far better. But he's 
annoyingly drab and dull. A downer if there ever was one. He can't decide what he wants to do and neither can his author. That's exactly how the book itself reads.  And therein is the problem.

We follow Dwight as he makes his confused way--all in his head--to work, to his girlfriend's, to his Social Register Episcopalean parents'. Then the author takes Dwight into the jungles of Central America and it doesn't really get a lot better. In fact, it gets worse, because supposedly, Dwight, through a magical drug--becomes an enlightened freedom-fighter of some kind, But it all comes off flat and implausible.

Okay--there is some humor here--but it's a limp attempt at justifying the flimsy story-line. Forget character development. The one thing we do see is that Dwight has a creepy liking for his sister.  It's up to you: Take a risk of o'd'-ing on your meds (not so unlike our protagonist)  by not taking an extra caplet or two but by picking up this book--believing it will really take you into some worthwhile adventure, or suffer the consequences of some over-time zzz's at morning's alarm. 

       What irks me is that the hype around this novel made it look like this was the best thing ever written. Now that I look back, the reviews were a bit absurd. I recall one reviewer actually wrote in the voice of Holden Caulfield--saying things like 

"this book really knocked me out"....

"nodded me out"..would've been more like it.  

  Obviously, the publisher pulled all the stops to get this thing off and running with all the correct critics--and it just goes to show you that in the long run, readers really do make or break a book. There's a smugness in the world of publishing these days where the problem is not so much that there is not good fiction to be had, but that the stuff that is being selected is an actual reflection of the individuals doing the chosing!  
 
The best writers write from life experience; are in touch with real life issues, and value the reader foremost. There are far better books out there. I suggest:  ANOTHER BULLS**T NIGHT IN SUCK CITY, SIM0N LAZARUS, A LONG WAY DOWN, A QUESTION OF ATTRACTION to name a few. All truly humorous. All strong reads
