Sir Leycester Coltman was Head of the Foreign Office's Latin America Department, then Ambassador to Cuba (1991-94), then to Colombia (1994-98). But as this mean-minded book shows, this hardly qualified him to write `the real' biography of Fidel Castro. 

This book gives the Foreign Office view, brimming with anti-trade union, anti-national and anti-communist sneers. For example, he casts doubts on Fidel's brother's parentage, citing as evidence Raul's `slanted oriental eyes', but even the book's photos disprove this. 

Coltman patronisingly assumes that Britain can give lessons in democracy to Cuba, but how many of us voted Mandelson an EU Commissioner? Coltman smugly assumes that capitalism means progress, but capitalism, a mode of production, does not make technological innovations or scientific advances: the working class makes them all. He cannot describe US imperialism and the illegal US blockade without putting the offending words in inverted commas.

He claims that the Macmillan government's decision to sell the Cuban dictator Batista warplanes and tanks was `commercial rather than political', because Britain's economic situation was `desperate'.  When Macmillan refused to sell Hawker Hunter fighters to Castro to defend Cuba against imminent US aggression, the situation was presumably not so desperate. Kennedy's illegal assault on Cuba showed that Bush's practice of unilateral, aggressive war is nothing new.

Cuba's eight million people have sustained independence and sovereignty, repelling all efforts to interfere in their internal affairs. So Fidel rightly opposed the Sandinistas' 1989 decision to bow to US-EU demands to hold multi-party elections in Nicaragua: the Sandinistas even let the US government fund the opposition. 

He warned, "Some people think they can save socialism by making concessions. They fail to take account of the voracious mentality of imperialism and of the reactionary forces. If you give them part of a fingernail, they will want part of your finger; if you give them a piece, they will want the whole finger; if you give them the finger, they will ask for the forearm; if you give them the forearm, they will ask for the arm; and when you give them the arm, they will chop off your head."

