Grabhorn starts with the assumption that our feelings can change the course of events around us. While there is some truth to this assumption, Grabhorn claims that our feelings could even change seemingly "random" events (like getting rear-ended on the highway). One logical question is that if two people "ask the universe" (to use Grabhorn's terminology) for opposing events, who would succeed? The question belies the assumption that there exists a plurality of distinct and individual freewill. This assumption is conveniently discarded throughout the book. Claims that whatever one asks for will come to pass litter the entire narrative.

Grabhorn states that we need to "vibrate" at the high frequencies (i.e., those that make us "feel good") attracting the same kind of frequencies to us. Her analogy is that we are magnets attracting the same kind of frequency back to our lives. The Law of the Universe that she proclaims is: "Like attracts like."

One issue with Grabhorn's analogy is that we tend to appreciate a blend of different frequencies. Musical instruments all resonate at different frequencies. It is the combination of different frequencies that appeals to us. Music (spiritual or otherwise) incorporates a variety of frequencies and tempos to arouse our souls. Another is whenever in nature there are forces of attraction and repulsion, it is opposites that attract. In magnetism, we learn that opposite poles attract. It is sometimes posited that we are naturally attracted not only to the opposite sex but also to those with accents that are different from our own.

Fundamentally, the assumptions Grabhorn makes are more outlandish than what most readers are comfortable making. The process of "feeling good" does have medically and psychologically proven benefits, but is living "as if" something were true is an entirely different issue. Grabhorn's techniques of make-belief would be too Machiavellian for our post-modern outlook.

The book could have greatly benefited from the services of an editor. The text could have been more concise and the narration could have been more crisp and lucid. A good first draft, but more work is needed.

Armchair Interviews says: Hampton Roads publishes books for the evolvinghHuman spirit on metaphysical subjects including visionary fiction, complementary and alternative medicine, self-help, science, and spiritual. This seems to be a book you will either LOVE or HATE--depending on your point of view
