Daniel Pipes said about this book:

"With uncommon skill, Shlaim has managed-in the confines of a very small volume with very large margins-to pack misjudgments, arrogance, and lack of sense into 1994's worst book on the Middle East."

Well, is that true?  Probably.  But just to show everyone that I am not only tolerant and soft-hearted, but generous, I'll give this book not just one, but two stars!  

You see, there are plenty of facts in this small book.  In addition to the misjudgments, arrogance, and lack of sense which it does indeed abound with.

Shlaim claims that the 1973 Yom Kippur War broke the diplomatic stalemate in the region and led to peace.  He's not the only one to have said this.  But I wouldn't consider saying something like this on a dare.  I'd be laughed out of town!   Could I say with a straight face that the way to start negotiations towards peace is to launch a war of aggression against a neighbor?  No.  And just how strong is the peace between Egypt and Israel anyway?  Not very.  It is more a cease-fire than a peace, with a constant barrage of anti-Israeli propaganda from the Egyptian side.

After that, we see Shlaim explain that land-poor Israel can have territory or peace.  Really?  I think it is more reasonable for those who want peace to permit land-poor nations to buy or keep something closer to their fair share of land.  In my opinion, Israel is more likely to have both territory and peace or neither of them than one or the other.  And the author says that Israel can have territory or American support.  Again, this could well be a false choice.  Even if Israel, for some reason, can not have both American support and territory, why ought one expect it to have American support if it does not have territory?

Shlaim sums up the problem of the Arabs versus the Jews.  Security pleases the Jews.  Fairness pleases the Arabs.  I wish this were true.

Let's see.  Fairness.  Does that mean letting everyone, including Jews and Arabs, buy land throughout the region and keep it?  Does that mean a Truth and Reconciliation session or two where the Arabs can apologize for their violence and aggression against Levantine Jews?  Sounds fair to me!  Shlaim is totally out of line to pretend that it is unfair to not steal Jewish land, or that it is unfair to allow Israel to stay on the map.

As for the Oslo peace accords, Shlaim praises them as the beginning of a new era.  Plenty of people were extremely suspicious of Oslo.  Shlaim was wrong here.  And those who were suspicious of Oslo generally had the right reasons to be suspicious.  I think that ought to make us more than a little suspicious of Shlaim.

Now, what does Shlaim recommend?  It is simple.  America is simply too much in favor of Israel!  Shlaim thinks we need a more "even-handed" approach.  And that (this was written before 9/11) America ought not "bolster Israel as a strategic partner in an unwinnable war against an imaginary Islamic threat."  Wow.  Imaginary.  But unbeatable.  Shlaim really took a strong view here.  I think 9/11 showed that we're dealing with a real, not an imaginary threat.  And in the long run, why shouldn't a war in favor of truth, justice, and human rights be winnable?  I see no reason to give up without even trying.

If you want to learn about war and peace in the Middle East, try some other book
