I really enjoyed most of Grant Morrison's run on JLA.  Unfortunately, his work grew rather weak towards the tail end of his run, and you'll certainly find evidence of that in this collection.

My overall gripe with this run is that it reads like a big super hero story done exactly by the numbers.  It feels as if Morrison ran down a checklist of necessary story elements, checking each of in order as he included them in the plot.

The main threat in the story is a 15 billion year old doomsday weapon which has thrown Earth into peril.  Global threat of cosmic origin - check.  The bummer is, you never get the impression that this is anything more than a plot device.  It's there because it needs to be there.

As if that weren't enough, we have the formation of a new Injustice Gang.  With impeccable timing, they come together to give the Justice League a sound thrashing at the worst possible moment.  Thread of destruction from super villains - check.

The real downer is that Morrision brings Prometheus, a character who I really enjoyed in his previous runs, back into the book.  He then uses the characters in several sequences that fail to impress.  First, there is a confrontation with Oracle which resolves itself between pages.  This really doesn't fly; Prometheus is capable of taking down the entire league, yet we are to believe that Oracle is saved from impending doom that cleanly?  Later, Prometheus comes to blows with Batman - and it's obvious that the confrontation was only a means for Morrison to work in what he thought was a cool idea regarding Prometheus' helmet.  Both fights (Oracle and Batman) seem to have been put in place so that Morrision could use this plot device, and it comes across as lazy story telling.

I know that super hero stories are built on clichés.  The good guys always win; there is often some new cosmic threat which we've never seen before - whatever.  A good super hero story can have all of these clichés, but can still feel fresh.  Nothing here feels new or particularly special.

In addition to Morrision's less than exciting JLA story, there is also a Spectre story by J.M. Dematteis.  I love J.M. Dematteis.  However, I wasn't especially impressed by this issue.  It could be that I'm biased, as I never warmed to the idea of Hal Joran becoming The Spectre.  Either way, it didn't do anything to raise my opinion of this trade paperback.

Don't get me wrong, Morrision did some great work on JLA.  This just isn't it
