I read the synopsis of this book and thought that it sounded like an engaging read so I bought it expecting a magnificently  poignant novel. However, I was massively disappointed. Simply put, I found the entire book unremarkable. None of the characters seemed real to me nor did I feel any empathy for them. Their situations and dilemmas felt vague and unimportant at best. I believe that this is largely due to the author's continual  time jumping. By the time I became used to one character and her tale the story shifted to that of the character's mother or grandmother. I did not see the connection between the modern day characters life and that of her grandmother.  Why, if the book is mostly focused on the grandmother's life were we told in mind numbing detail about the life of her granddaughter?  How was this supposed to fit into the story? However, I continued to read mostly due to the tantalizing hints of something more exciting and  tragic to come. But this was not to be. The book ended much as it started, pointlessly. The "big" mystery of the novel  that supposedly shrouded the grandmother's marriage was an utter disappointment. The mystery was simply too banal and lifeless to be of any interest. I felt let down by the author after I had invested so much time in the novel to find out that the tragedy was as simple and uninteresting as what it turned out to be.  I did not hate this novel as you might suspect, but I did not like it either. It was one of those novels that is mildly interesting but if you put it down you will probably never pick it up again. If you feel that the novel is still worth reading then I recommend checking it out from the library. If I had done this I would never have checked it out again nor would I have bought it. Overall, this is a waste of time and money. There are too many good books in the world to waste time on this one.

I Recommend : Light on Snow, The Lovely Bones, A Peacock Spring, Not Without My Daughter, I Dreamed of Africa, Flowers in the Attic, Nell's Quilt, the Left Behind Series and the quintessential horror novels the Ravenloft Series.
