In most of the articles Kun has written, he goes on about his upbringing as a "rich kid in LA." I keep reading in various articles the same nostalgic patter about bar mitzvahs and being into records as if no one else in the world was, and more about being rich and a "disaffected Jew". They are strangely the same autobiographical stories, told over and over and over again, and so mundane and boring you wonder what the fuss is about, and what he's so proud of with this, and why he thinks we should view them as anything beyond the dull world of an over-indulged child of priviledge. True to form, the book starts out with this AGAIN! After his usual first person ramble on the subject (the reason why is unclear.. since often it has nothing to do with the subject matter being covered), he then goes on--  rambles on-- about the subject of "American music" (I think) -- switching to a opaque academic "professorial" voice, veering into various declarations about "race."   His "opinions" on race-- particularly Mexican and African-American (I'm talking about the poor societies therein, not the priveledged tier)-- too often come across through a foggy lens, not by someone who has a clear vision of and experience with the issue (why he impresses the fact that he lives in a glass house and then tries to get us to believe that he "really gets" the world of ghettos and poverty is beyond me). His attitude toward the world of the new Jewish immigrant in America is often insulting and strange, particularly in the way he mocks this group. This, and other rants, only impresses the fact that a boy in an ivory tower attempting a hipper-than-thou stance has little true understanding of the subjects he writes about. Beyond this turn off, there are other problems. This is a very poorly constructed book, and very tiring. The subject matter is far above the tiresome presentation and the quality of writing. Wish someone else had tackled the subject, and by a more outstanding press (but perhaps it was turned down by the bigger houses)
