Derek Bok in his latest book, Our Underachieving Colleges, paints a picture of colleges that is equivocal as to their progression or regression in respect of their academic performance. He see's much room for improvement and it is probably in this sense that the title mentions, "Underachieving." Of all the concepts he discusses none gets more ink than that of "critical thinking." And he gives it enough description to convince me that he does not understand it anymore than the professors in education schools do. He finds that "formal logic" and "advanced calculus" do not qualify as examples of critical thinking- and he couldn't be more wrong. Logic and mathematics are the most important types of critical thinking that have been tested over time. These are the indispensible tools of scientists and if scientists are not the most knowledgable practitioners of critical thinking, then who is? (I speak as a former scientist.)

Later in his book he tangentially acknowledges that colleges have deteriorated in certain respects, as in "grade inflation." He presents very little quantitative information- data- showing that our colleges are underachieving. There is no mention of the Graduate Record Examinations that one would think would be a good measure of undergraduate student performance and a yard stick by which comparisons could be made temporally and between colleges.

In researching his book he could have surveyed the research of the U.S. Department of Education wherein there are statistics suggestive of not only underachieving colleges but of their degradation over time. For example, the 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy suggests that college graduates today only perform about as well as college juniors of ten years earlier.

The book has too much politically correct terminology and lacks the kind of critical thinking that a scientist would recognize. But "fuzzy logic" is perhaps a better descriptor of the arguments presented in the book.

I'm not sure in what circumstance I would recommend this book to others
