I first read the Dance Hall of the Dead in high school.  Being a member of the Zuni Tribe, and a resident of the town of Zuni, it was quite interesting to see how much of the information concerning Zuni could be changed to fit the &quot;theme&quot; and plot of the book.  While these may seem like little details to most people, it is quite disturbing to see how often Hillermans work is seen as accurate, because of a reputation he has somehow gained as an &quot;expert&quot; on Native Cultures of the American Southwest.  Apparently, he thought that all pueblo people are the same.  This is evident in the use of the last name of Cata, which is not even seen in Zuni, and is actually a last name seen only in the Rio Grande Pueblos.  In addition, his interpretation or portrayal of the Sha'la'k'o ceremony as a &quot;Dance Hall of the Dead&quot; is simplistic at best.  While he may be an &quot;expert&quot; in Navajo culture, it does not qualify him to comment on a COMPLETELY different society, much less its sacred and complex kachina ceremonies.  Finally, many native people, such as the Navajo, the Zuni and the Hopi (who have all been &quot;featured&quot; in Hillerman's books) feel that Hillerman's descriptions of ceremonies and rituals is just plain wrong.  As an outsider, he has no business delving into or exposing the nature of such things as kachinas, which we consider sacred yet dangerous.  Furthermore, by exploiting our cultures for the sake of adding interest to a plot, he seems to show a lack of respect for our cultures, our religions, and our tribes in general.   This in itself is bad enough, but the worst thing is that people actually consider his novels definitive descriptions of Native culture.  There are many ethnological works out there that are available, and they are NOT hard to find.  After all Zuni is one of, if not THE most complex, and most studied society on earth.  While I don't agree with people wanting to know &quot;everything there is to know&quot; about Zuni culture, there are much better places to find out about &quot;us&quot; than a Tony Hillerman book
