"We all have a personal money blueprint ingrained in our subconscious minds, and this blueprint will determine your financial life. You can know everything about marketing, sales, negotiations, stocks, real estate, and the world of finance, but if your blueprint isn't set for a high level of success, you'll never make a lot of money-and if by chance you do, you'll most likely lose it!" - T. Harv Eker

Author of the international bestselling book Secrets of the Millionaire Mind, T. Harv Eker intends to show you how to think and act like a millionaire in the 50-card deck of the same name.

Each colorful card features an affirmation on one side and an expansion of the idea on the other. Some of the messages in the Secrets of the Millionaire Mind Cards include:

"Be the Best at What You Do - To get paid the best, you must BE the best. Rich people are experts in their field, middle-class people are mediocre in their field, and poor people are poor in their field."

"Associate With Successful People - Birds of a feather flock together. The rich associate with successful people, the poor often associate with unsuccessful people. Energy is contagious. If you want to fly with the eagles, you'll have to stop swimming with the ducks."

"Don't Listen to Broke People - Rich people take advice from people who are richer than they are. Poor people take advice from their friends, who are just as broke as they are."

"Embrace Responsibility - Most people run from responsibility-that's why they're broke. Rich people are willing to take on big responsibilities-that's why they're rich."

As you can see, the Secrets of the Millionaire Mind Cards is full of materialistic tripe. Eker tries to add some "spiritual" messages to this deck with cards like "Become Conscious", "Learn to Live in Your Higher Self", and "Enhance Your Energy". However, most of the cards are full of polarizing messages with the dividing line between "rich" and "poor". The assumptions and dualistic philosophy are disturbing. The messages promote an "us versus them" attitude, in addition to focusing on others as both competition and as a measuring stick for "success".

Eker uses the word "success" quite often, and it would appear that his personal standard is the United States. Many of his assertions are so off the mark, it's hard to pick where to start! For example, I grew up in a lower-middle class environment, and my father was the local butcher. He was the best in the area, with many stores trying to lure him away to join their company. His reputation was excellent, he took great pride in his work, always paid the bills, and went to work despite illness. In fact, I remember him going to work with a broken ankle-which wasn't easy considering he spent much of his day in frigid conditions.

However, according to the Secrets of the Millionaire Mind Cards, my Dad lacked responsibility, was "poor" (or "mediocre") in his field, and was a "duck" who didn't deserve to be "swum" with in the pond of life. To be honest, I'm blown away at the shallowness of this deck. I'm even more surprised that Hay House, a company known for creating uplifting, positive, and empowering products would produce such superficial nonsense.

And no, I am NOT opposed to wealth or abundance! Nevertheless, challenging a poverty or scarcity mindset is a whole lot different from castigating the poor and labeling so-called "qualities" of those who are "less than" in the Eker model (i.e. those who aren't "rich"). If one were to take Eker seriously, this would mean that Eckhart Tolle's two year stint as a "homeless" man sitting on a park bench was an indication of a lack of success and vision. Because he wasn't busy "doing" something-competing with everyone and his brother for more-he was low-life failure. Or what about Mother Theresa alleviating the suffering of the poor? She hung with the "ducks"-so what did that make her? 

Sorry, but I'd like to choose whom to admire based on qualities I'd like to cultivate and maintain in myself-and those don't include competitiveness (which, unfortunately, I was born with in spades), grasping, comparison, and elitism. In fact, rather than looking outside myself for a rabbit to jump-start or encourage my ambition, I'd rather run the race of my sacred contract which contains lessons unique to my soul. Success and wealth are all relative; plenty of people have gained the whole proverbial world and lost their soul.

If you'd like to make tons of money, be the "best" and first in everything, and climb the social ladder, you'll likely love these cards. If you want a balanced deck that encourages the ideas of abundance without a shallow, materialistic mindset, try Deepak Chopra's Success Cards.

(To 6 card images from this deck, visit the Reviews--Decks section at JanetBoyer.com)

P.S. I believe in abundance and am not struggling financially. I live an abundant, joy-filled life. :o
