Time was when the words Betty Crocker actually stood for something good in cookbooks, although the books' recipes, for better or for worse, were always a product of their times.  The very first "Betty Crocker Picture Cook Book" was published in 1950 (still available), revolutionized how cookbooks were produced, and was an enormous best-seller.  The recipes were the result of much thorough testing in the company's kitchens and in homes across America.  This was cooking from scratch with very little reliance on convenience foods in its pages.  This gradually changed as Betty and her books became more and more of a shill for General Mills' products and her name got plastered on one mix after another to the benefit of the company's bottom line, but to the detriment of good cooking.  

The two all-purpose cookbooks that came out in 1961 and 1969 were both loaded with recipes and wonderful tips/helps, although you could see the beginnings of sacrificing quality for convenience--especially in the 1969 edition--but this was still relatively minor in proportion to the majority of the recipes.  If you have one of these books, treasure and keep it; you'll never see their likes again.

The current 10th edition looks good but, like the past several editions, the number of recipes has been drastically reduced.  Gone are the many variations, which are especially missed in baked goods.  It was wonderful having recipes of many cakes that were sized for two people or small families and having different mixing methods to choose from.  Now way too many recipes are of the "dump and stir" method instead of choosing methods that would insure the best results.  Also gone is the very friendly, assuring, conversationial voice of yesteryear.  Yes, there are recipes covering a wider range of ingredients and styles, but they are mostly stripped-down versions.  

It's obvious that the folks at Betty Crocker now seem to think that no one really cooks anymore and can't be bothered with proper preparation of dishes, which begs the question of why General Mills even bothers to publish these cookbooks anymore.  The "Better Homes and Gardens New Cookbook" is a better bet for those looking for an all-purpose, everyday guide.  It has a better layout, the recipes and ingredients are generally of a higher quality, and there are more recipes and variations than Betty Crocker's had in some time.  Even better, if you care at all about the quality of the food you eat and serve your family, I highly recommend the cookbooks of Cooks' Illustrated/America's Test Kitchen.  Their comparable, general-purpose cookbook is called "The America's Test Kitchen Family Cookbook."  The recipes are tested and reworked--dozens of times, if necessary--to be the best their staff can make them and you get precise directions in preparing them.  It's a shame that Betty Crocker has abdicated her throne and good name, but there's even better stuff out there now.  Go for it!
