In January 1982 the Department of Vertebrate Zoology of the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institute, held the founding meeting of the International Society of Cryptozoology - i.e. the pseudo-science of searching for unknown animals. Was this a sign of the serious treatment of such a move by at least a part of the American scientific establishment? Or a worrying sign of the latter's corruption by people holding Ph.D. degrees, who then use their scientific credentials in order to support unfounded fantasies and peculiar beliefs - just as some Christian anti-Darwinist biologists do in another field? 

This book falls somewhere between the two questions above, and I guess its value depends on the answer that one gives. True, it has been marketed as a scientific account: "brings a much-needed level of scientific analysis", says Dr. Jane Goodall. But I can't help asking if it is "scientific" because it is written by a scientist, or it is labeled as such because it is written according to the rules and the methodology of science. Already from the first 50 pages it becomes evident that Dr. Meldrum (associate professor of anatomy and anthropology at Idaho State University) does not respect "mainstream" scientists who ask for hard evidence and are skeptics, but he is ready, on the other hand, to treat affectionally the famous Roger Patterson Sasquatch film (1967) - a film which zoologist John Napier, who was by no means unfriendly to the possibility of Sasquatch's existence, has proven as a hoax, with some very solid arguments. 

As this book is quite big in size, I could continue this review picking various other points where the author takes the side of cryptozoologists, removing himself dangerously from how a true scientist should operate, thus becoming, as a New York Times article by Timothy Egan has described him, a true believer prone to scholarly bias. But I prefer to remind the reader that, although it is true that during the 1990s humans discovered unknown animal forms in some parts of our world, cryptozoology cannot be regarded as a serious science - yes, we did find the Vietnamese Vu Quang ox, but no Yeti, no Sasquatch, no Loch Ness or other lake monster, no Mokele Mbebe in the jungles of Congo. 

Personally, I am convinced that there is nothing strange in Loch Ness or in any other lake in the world, nothing strange in the Himalayas, and certainly no dinosaur in Congo. But I'm not so convinced about Bigfoot, although I have some major reservations. Dr. Meldrum's book, however, is not the scientific account which will cast some light on those reservations. On the contrary, it is the account of a scientist dangerously committed to an unfounded belief, who has used his credentials to lure the public to his (and numerous others) chimaera. If I was a US citizen I would seriously consider pressing charges against those who have marketed the book as a "scientific account". But, since I'm not, I can only contribute this review as a warning to other fools like me. Don't spend your money here. 

