"Seat of the Soul" --Gary Zukav

  Do you remember the beginning of the LORD OF THE RINGS movie?  Lady Galadriel is doing a voice-over,  and saying:  "Much that was once known....is now lost."  ...     So it is with  "spiritual" literature.     

    One of the longer reviews giving this book a 5-Star rating seemed to infer that the negative reviews come from people who are closed-minded to metaphysical ideas such as KARMA,  COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS and so forth.  In fact,  Most of the highly critical reviews of ZUKAV's book come from people who are knowledgeable about such concepts.  

  It is understandable that many give "Seat of the Soul"  a  Five Star Rating and high praise.   If someone is seeking inspiration,  and reads about these things for the first time,  of course they will be inspired. There is nothing wrong with that.     Those who have never studied metaphysics,  and have not contemplated GOD,  KARMA, MIND, SOUL,  COSMIC  CONSCIOUSNESS ... etc.,  might experience a spiritual renewal, and thus give Zukav credit for this.  Allow me to assure you that there were many distinguished  authors  whose work deserves credit in the consideration of metaphysical ideas.       

      AESCHYLUS (525-456  B.C.E /before Common Era)  wrote "PROMETHEUS BOUND"

      PLATO,  (427-347 B.C.E. /before Common Era) wrote 
PHAEDRUS about reincarnation,  and other works on Knowing Virtue, Soul & Form,  Justice,  Social Life, Specific Virtues,  Good Rulers,   Knowledge,  the  Value of Justice,  and ....LOVE

     MADAME BLAVATSKY published  "ISIS UNVEILED" in two volumes in New York in 1877,  over a 125 years ago?  The book of which the New York Herald claimed:  "One of the most remarkable productions of the century." 

     Dr. Richard Bucke  published  the  great classic "COSMIC  CONSCIOUSNESS"  in 1901  

   The Yogi Publication Society  of Oak Park,  Illinois,  published the work of  Yogi Ramacharaka,  amongst which is "Fourteen Lessons in Yogi Philosophy and Oriental Occultism"  in   1903

   The pioneering  Harvard psychologist William James
published  "THE VARIETIES  OF  RELIGIOUS EXPERIENCE"  in  1904

    "New Thought" author  EMMET FOX published "Sermon on the Mount" in 1934. (I strongly believe Zukav drew heavily upon this specific text, because FOX extrapolated from the text of New Testament, Matthew 7:7  the doctrine of KARMA in 1934)

   Marin  Buber  published "I and Thou" in  1937
 
   Napolean Hill published  "THINK AND GROW RICH" in 1937
    (very specific instruction in AUTO-SUGGESTION)

    Aldous Huxley published "The Perennial Philosophy" in 1944

   Paramahansa  YOGANANDA  published "The Autobiography of a Yogi"  in  1946

   Trappist Monk  THOMAS MERTON  published "The Seven Storey  Mountain"  in 1948

   Dr. Norman Vincent Peale published  "THE POWER OF POSITIVE THINKING in 1952

  C. G. Jung published "The Undiscovered Self"  in 1957

  Paul Reps published  "ZEN FLESH,  ZEN  BONES" in 1957

  Eric Fromme published  "The Art of Loving" in 1967 

 C.S. Lewis,  author of "The CHRONICLES OF NARNIA"  published  "The Four Loves"  in 1971

 Leo Buscaglia  published his book on "Love" in 1972 

 and did not Albert Schweitzer go  to Africa to be a medical missionary?  

 and did not MOTHER  TERESA  demonstrate love in action in hostels in India? 

   Has not Mankind  had,  collectively,   over 1500 years to study spiritual works such as:  

 The Gospels of Jesus (as Christian scripture), 

 The Yoga Aphorisms of Patanjali; How to Know God, 

  The Baghavad Gita (Hindu Scripture), 

  the Dhammapada (Buddhist scripture), 

  and the Koran  (Muslim scripture) 

  and the VEDANTA  SOCIETY  literature outlining the lives of 
   Swami Sri RamaKrishna and Swami Vivekenanda

     Even novels have stimulated interest in metaphysical & religious matters, such as "The Third Eye" by T. Lobsang Rampa, and "The Source" by James Michener. 

   All of the above,  and many more,  form  a deep  spiritual  heritage that have been part of the warp & weave of American culture for many years.     

   So along comes Gary Zukav and presents the combined spiritual teachings  of these various religious and philosophical systems as though he were some larger-than-life  MESSIANIC figure,  teaching an ultimate truth;  LOVE,   a larger than LIFE visionary,  showing mankind the WAY.   So who can argue against LOVE? Nobody.  This is Zukav's presumption;  that nobody in American culture has ever written of these matters before.  Zukav offers no credit to any but himself.  He's  banging his drum like it's  1973. 

   One must realize the enormity of the injustice of Zukav in his pretense of reinventing "spirituality". 

   The distinction between living in REALITY and living in INSANITY is that the realistic person permits a dialogue with the outside world.  The deception of ZUKAV is that he writes in the smug,  self-centered,  self-referential  style of "self-talk"    that  is characteristic of those who are insane, when  outside questioning and confirmation is not permitted.  The principle Zukav applies is:  

    "It's true,  because I say it's true!"  

    ...which  at the least,  mimics propaganda, and at the worst,  parallels the irrational ruminations of the insane; but at any rate,  this is called "self-authenticating" writing. The New Age genre is  is generally this manner of unfounded assertion.    

      Zukav advocates LOVE only in an absurdly narrow view; the NAMBY-PAMBY sense.   LOVE in this sense is the suggestion that the answer to all human problems is to simply fold our hands,   bow our heads,  and make "nice" all the time.    I do not agree with that absurdly narrow definition at all;  but this suggestion has a powerful appeal to the masses who  are reluctant to apply  spiritual principles to life's problems. The rush to convenient truth by implementing  the "It's True Because I Say It's True!"   approach to metaphysics  will spare the Ego-Centrist  from dealing with Life realistically, and offer a shortcut.   

   More silly still,  is the implied idea that Zukav's book is provided as an answer to the common problems of humanity.    Excuse me,  but all ZUKAV could do was write a book?   Why don't we all just write books?   The poor will still go hungry,  the addicts & alcoholics will still suffer,  crimes of violence,  and hatred, prejudice, and bias will still abound, and cruelty and human selfishness,  and the insanity of bloated EGOS will continue unabated;  but  let suffering humanity buy Zukav's book.
Ka-Ching!

           ***  CUNNING USE OF THE HALF-TRUTH  ***

    Zukav employs another noteworthy half-truth,  one that is subtle in the extreme.  This is the foxy difference between *TALKING  & WALKING*   a    "truth".  Whether it is LOVE,  or the practice of humility,  Zukav writes as though he were a spiritual TEACHER,  superior to the other authors of spiritual literature,   living a life of such virtue that he is qualified to teach others of the Kingdom of Heaven.  The problem is that even a sly fool can TALK these ideas.  I suggest waiting to see Zukav demonstrate the principles he's claiming. 


 ZUKAV's writing suggests that he is possessed of extraordinary "spiritual"  knowledge.   As long as Zukav has an adoring audience,  his act  on the stage of life thrills the naive and unthinking, very much like the audience for a fast-talking TV EVANGELIST.  Write-write-write....talk-talk-talk.....that's all ya gotta do.   Give Zukav his money and call him... SPECIAL. 

   We live in a time that many people are so confused that they cannot distinguish   between the True & False.   The realm of knowledge is even more confusing due to the numerous lies and falsehoods foisted upon modern man through advertising and mass suggestion, and New Age authors like ZUKAV who use a "hodge-podge" of doctrines and ideas to create a smokescreen of bubbly verbiage, devoid of meaning.   

  Certainly,  some will be uplifted to read anything at all that affirms:   SOUL,   REINCARNATION,  KARMA,   LOVE,    MIND /  HIGHER CONSCIOUSNESS....etc, etc, etc.   That is okay.   I am fascinated with  these ideas myself.  Writing or speaking of these things endlessly is not a demonstration of spiritual life. Rather,  it is more indicative of a kind of spiritual DYSFUNCTIONALITY, a kind of self-intoxication.

    No realm has produced as much charlatanry as that of  "religion";  but let's not throw out the Baby with the bathwater,  where religion is concerned. 

    Another  sly tactic involves the principle of FAITH.  When writers like ZUKAV  present scientific evidence, like Evolutionary Theory,  or toss around suggestions premised upon QUANTUM PHYSICS,  etc,  as though to give "evidence" for fantastical beliefs....that is actually the CONTRADICTION of  what is called,  "faith".   A genuine FAITH is what you have....when there is NO EVIDENCE.  Amongst people who claim faith,  none are so weak in faith as those who honor it because they have "proof";  and ZUKAV is suggesting PROOFS.  

     Another ZUKAV failing,    is his FAILURE TO IDENTIFY  GOOD & EVIL.  ZUKAV   moralizes at great length...but always in the GENERAL sense,  discussing  broad and non-specific issues.  He doesn't have to get his hands dirty by clarifying Good & Evil in their specific,  day to day occurrances.  Does Zukav tackle the ABORTION issue?  Don't kid yourself! Zukav is the HIGH PRIEST of  the GLITTERING GENERALITY.  Watch as ZUKAV  performs a high wire act of fence sitting on serious issues.  He calls upon us to behave morally,  but only in the general sense,    not in the specific.  He refers to "US" in the collective;  US as the United States for example.    How conveniently the difficult issues of our time are neatly by-passed. Zukav's  THEORY-OF-EVERTHING  becomes a hodge-podge of glittering generalities.     The posturing and guilty hand-wringing are enough to make a sensible person wretch. 

         *IMPACT PARTITIONING*  &   *ACCOUNTABILITY  DENIAL*  

     Another subtle tactic ZUKAV employs has been called  *ACCOUNTABILITY DENIAL*  or  *IMPACT  PARTITIONING*.  This refers to notions of KARMA and your personal responsibility, and those who use this device to manipulate others are  very cunning.  An issue will be presented,  implying that we are guilty and responsible.  EXAMPLE:   We are responible for the terror acts of others.  We "caused" their anger.  The sneaky implication is that WE, are the only operant force in the universe.  We perform some action,  and someone else   merely reacts.  Obviously,  WE are not justified in killing and maiming every time we become upset over something.  Reactionary personalities are always justified however.    Others are ALWAYS justified in violence.  "THEY"  are justified in buchtering wholesale.   "We" are never justified.  In this way,  Zukav   PARTITIONS  the IMPACT of human forces in  life.  The KARMIC  ACCOUNTABILITY of reactionary and violent people is DENIED.  We are always accountable,  others are never accountable,  karmically.   [More guilty hand wringing is required here]  

   The difficulty for those tending to endorse Zukav,  is whether or not  they can  grasp critical analysis of what they see, hear,  feel,  and percieve.  ZUKAV's rantings on his website are no better.  With ZUKAV,  perhaps we ought to ask ourselves,  that if  ZUKAV endorses Christianity  in part,  does ZUKAV endorse Christianity, in the "whole"?.  If ZUKAV  endorses  Hinduism in part,  does he endorse Hinduism in the "whole"?  If ZUKAV endorses  Buddhism in part,  does he endorse Buddhism in the "whole"?  Of course he doesn't.  ZUKAV doesn't really stand for anything.  It's an intellectual  CHAMELEON ACT, that not only ZUKAV practices,  he is teaching it to others.  For example,  Zukav endorses  Christianity only in part,  as it is convenient.  Zukav cannot be held accountable to Christianity,  because he can shift to some other religious model on a moment's notice.   Zukav cannot be held accountable for the Hindu model,  because he can shift colors to another religious model here also.  Zukav is the proverbial HALF-WAY-HARRY. 

    It will take a lot more effort to embrace "spirituality" than to walk around,  bowing our head, folding our hands,  and saying "Namaste" to everybody,  all the while,  reminding ourselves that we are practicing,  as Zukav suggests,  "NON-JUDGEMENT"  but clucking our tongues at the "NEGATIVE" book reviewers of the world,  like some kind of modern day Puritan. 

    So this Great  Know-It-All  Game takes us back to the common human dilemma;   the distinction between TALKING  and WALKING a spirituality.  What gives Zukav a great advantage is that he is the only person with a voice.  It is HIS book,  so there's nobody to ask a critical question about how well Zukav  demonstrates  the WALKING part of spiritual life.  Nobody challenges Zukav with questions about what it might be like to experience a HIGHER CONSCIOUSNESS,  or a COSMIC   CONSCIOUSNESS or SAMADHI  or NIRVANA; but Zukav implies that he knows a lot about these matters.   Zukav allows the reader to formulate that  Zukav is on a great spiritual height,  speaking down to mankind, raising his hand in beatific blessing.  Counseling and advising,  because he presents himself as ALL-KNOWING in everything SPIRITUAL and everything SCIENTIFIC. 

   In the final analysis,  what does Gary Zukav come up with that is new or essential as a teaching?  You can sum it up as early as chapter 5, titled INTUITION.  Here's the quote:

    "What is Truth?  Truth is that which does not contaminate you, but EMPOWERS you. Therefore, there are DEGREES of truth..."--page 88,  midpage, Ch. 3,  "Seat of the Soul" [capitalization mine, for emphasis]

    From the above quote,  any elementary student of logic will infer reasonably, that if there are  DEGREES of "truth,"  then there are also degrees of EMPOWERMENT,  or personal manifestations of power. Therefore,  all of mankind is at different levels on a cosmic hierarchy.  So...the reader will ask what is wrong with that?  I shall tell you.  It is no different from the teachings of Machiavelli in  "The Prince".  It also makes "Seat of the Soul"   a book that merely instructs us in simple facts that are already suggested in the Bible. I'm not saying that Zukav's idea is wrong or false.  I am saying, "So What?"  Zukav teaches what the "world"   already teaches in many books. Even the literary "hay" that  Zukav hopes to make from the idea that man is MULTI-SENSORY is nothing new.  The idea that we have 5 Spritual Senses that are counterpart to our 5 Physical Senses was taught from the Beginning. 

   Zukav makes the reader FEEL as though he is teaching something new,  combined with a more refined MORAL understanding as to the paramaters and boundaries of our personal being in the conflicts of daily life;  but Zukav never clarifies the nature of POWER, nor of any MORALITY to guide us in the use of power. Perhaps the  the grandest omission of all,  is that Zukav never bothers to mention which personalities stand at the pinnacle of achievement in POWER.   Zukav again writes in glittering generalities,  never having to be specific about advising us about "guides" to truth and so forth.  

  "The personality is never separate from its soul,  and the soul and its personalities are continually assisted and guided with impersonal COMPASSION and WISDOM."  -p. 89, Chapter 3, bottom paragraph-"Seat of the Soul"

   Zukav is inferring that the soul is always guided with "kid gloves". All is a motherly tenderness and softness as far as the issue of soul-guiding goes.  That's just plain fluff.    Zukav neglects to explain the real FACTS OF LIFE to  his readership, or mention the greatest COMPASSION  sometimes manifests in painful lessons. In real life,  people sometimes have many painful and difficult trials. For Zukav,  the very essence of "spirituality"  is sitting around reading books,  and the hand-folding and head-bowing, and saying  "NAMASTE!" to everybody, and the mumbling of pithy rhetoric about wisdom,  compassion, and that MULTI-SENSORY PERSONALITY stuff. 

       If it walks like a duck,  feels like a duck,  and "Quacks" like a duck....it might be a mechanical wind-up toy, and not an actual DUCK. Just because a Duck waddles to the top of the stage at the Tower of Babel and starts quacking,  does not require that everybody clap.    

   

  
