"Envy" is a hard book to pin down. In a nutshell, we have Will Moreland, a New York therapist who has elected to go to his college reunion. His wife Carole prefers to stay home since she does not know anyone and they are still feeling the emotional tug of the loss of their son, Luke. During the reunion, most people are more concerned with the whereabouts of his twin brother Mitch, a pretty famous long-distance swimmer, whom Will is estranged. After reading about some of his former collegiates, he comes across the bio of former flame Elizabeth and discovers that she has a daughter that could possibly be his. When he asks her, she justifiably balks at him.

He returns home, and seeks out a therapist of his own to discuss his intimacy issues with his wife, as well as his dark sexual fantasies, as they are starting to interfere with his effectiveness at his own practice. He is also having problems with the abandonment of his twin, who he has not seen since his wedding day. Mitch was born with birthmark that made him stand out to ridicule as a child. Will always felt guilt that his own face was not marred. Little does he know that the brother that he protected since childhood made a mockery of his devotion, as he slowly learns the truth behind Mitch's absence.

A new patient arrives in his office with her own intimacy issues. She is a student and seduces older men. When she relishes in telling him about her sex life in detail, it is evident that her next victim is going to be Will. After she makes an inappropriate move on him, he decides to terminate their relationship and refers her elsewhere. Soon, she is knocking down his door, insisting that he see her. When she disrobes, Will's own lack of willpower triggers a sexual escapade which he will forever wish did not happen, particularly when the patient reveals who she is. 

Suddenly Will questions is own relationship with his wife, former lovers, his brother, and his parents. This really could have been a moving story, but I did not feel a connection in any way to the storyline - there was no real emotion, depth, or character development. The revelation of the student's identity is no surprise - anyone can se that coming. All told in a matter-of-fact manner, with little emotion, the story never has any clear resolution, nor any closure, making it a bit of a disappointment
