This book doesn't address the condition of man and mans condition as its been forever, as in thousands of years.  

and to single out Christianity as war mongers is tarded, the whole world is and has been into wars.  

Name ONE century in history, yes all of history, where there has been no wars? ( hint, its zero ) 

oh yea yea i know the debate, we are getting smarter as people and will stop wars as soon as we get more educated.   

below is from another reviewer in here.

To Christian readers I would recommend considering Hillman's view that Christianity has been martial from the start as a challenge to examine the relationship between the Christian emphasis on love and innocence and its long institutional history of intolerance and brutality. Is warfare endemic to Christianity? Are Christians who reject warfare exceptions to an almost universal aggressiveness? Must Christianity be a religion of missionaries who think they know better than the peoples they seek to convert? These are some of the questions raised by Hillman's study.

without even talking to any of you peeps in here that give this book 4-5 stars, I am willing to bet that you also are ok with abortion for any reason the women wants.   Seems to always go hand in hand, hate war, abortions are ok.  

Guess what, abortion kills more than all the wars combined.  At least 1.5 million in USA alone.  

yea yea I know, overpopulation ( Got War? ) unwanted kids ( 7 year waiting list for adoption ) on and on it goes. 

Organized religion is at the head of many of mans problems, if not the most of them.   This includes all religions.   However, the Christ of the bible has nothing to do with organized religion, so hence, you see why we just continue to have problem after problem.   I was raised catholic, bailed to Christianity, went over to right wing Christianity, and bailed out of all named denominations, now it's just flat Christian.  The problem is, not many others are doing this, and wont as I see the world anytime in the near future, so hence, all our problems in the world are going to continue.   Simple as that.  

people are confusing getting rid of all religions ( john Lennon Imagine, etc etc ) With the real Christ.   Jesus hated religion, yet his people still want to be a part of it, as they think it keeps them all in line.   

I know so many people that were raised in a Christian home, Mormon home, JW home, a Catholic home, and as soon as they became adults, they bailed on all of it.   going over to anything that sans organized religion and is "Just God".    


