I've read this book twice, and I think I have some idea of what the author is trying to say now. (Mind you, I said I think).  The book is not a mere impressionistic pastiche (like Barzun's From Dawn to Decadence).  Mr. Gay is actually trying to say something.  The simplest way I can explain what that something is as I understand it is to write it out as succinctly as I know how:  The Romantic poets, especially Wordsworth and Shelley, their ascendency coinciding as it did with the ascendency of that new social class, the bourgeoisie, influenced society far more than is realized today...Shelley, for instance, whose name was considered unmentionable during his lifetime, became the model of what a poet should be by the end of the century, the ultra-respectable Robert Browning  one of his greatest fans.  All this fascination with the Romantics among the populace caused the society at large to look inward just when, paradoxically, vast strides were being made in what I guess we'll call the material instead of spiritual realm.-First off, I have to give my whole-hearted approval to the importance placed on Shelley as a cultural influence, just as Gay's Yale colleague Harold Bloom resurrected the importance of his literary influence.  Indeed, the two men are the only ones I know of to describe Dickens' work as more &quot;magical&quot; than &quot;realistic.&quot;-But Gay's writing and his tone are not pretty.  I mean, he seems to have some bile built up against the age he is describing.  Unlike Bloom, he seems pertly averse to the inward-directedness of the 19th century, and his writing on it frequently verges on mockery.  As he says (sneers) on page eight of the introduction, &quot;...what is the self that Victorian bourgeois seemed so intent on discovering and defining?&quot;-The Naked Heart?-The problems I have with this book are that a)There is a lack of urbanity or even drollery that leave one emotionally deflated after reading it; b)Gay never delves into what is wrong, per se, with what we nowadays call spiritual searching; c)Much of the writing is just plain bad-Perhaps Gay expects us to take from the book's title that something is seriously wrong with a society preoccupied with uncovering something so personal.-The book is confounding in all these respects.  Really, when it comes down to it Mr Gay seems to be saying (ever so subtly) that Victorian &quot;culture,&quot; as it were, was a sentimental waste of time.-You have to have grown pretty bald on the pate to write something so....heartless
