I am genuinely surprised by the generally positive reviews of this book; Weaver's unqualified presumptuousness and condescending tone reminds me of the thoughtless media diatribes he supposedly despises. This is not to say that I did not enjoy reading the book, but I enjoyed it mostly because I rarely encounter a book so close-minded that claims to be thoughtful. 

The idea that a metaphysical dream which does not transcend particulars will trickle down to the attitudes and actions of everyday life is an assumption. The author commits a similar mistake to those social scientists who construct predictive models on the assumption that all people are rational actors; PEOPLE ARE NOT ALWAYS RATIONAL! I say that Weaver's mistake is similar because his assumption is even greater. It may not be too grievous a generalization that people operate on a daily level acting in corespondence with the logical imperitives of their self interest. For example, the college student who a) wants to be a college professor b) knows that such a career often requires a Ph.D and consequentially c) enrolls in a doctoral program. Judging from this it could be infered that this particular college student is a rational actor. This does not indicate, however, that s/he has a concrete or non-contradictory system of beliefs (let alone metaphysics). She or he could act logically/rationally when it comes to careers yet hold the incompatible beliefs that "there should be complete gender equality" and "only women should raise children". Wasn't one of Plato's main objectives in the Socratic dialogues to show the inherent contradictions in everyone's ideas? In any case I think that practical analysis of Weaver's argument for the metaphysical basis of action is a joke. I certainly don't refer to my dis/belief in universals when I decide to order a cheeseburger. 

Even if I were to ignore the enormous assumption noted above, I would still take issue with a serious contradiction in this book. Weaver regularly bashes pragmatism and pushes for a return to the belief in objective truth/reality; he argues (via his big assumption) that if our metaphysics accepted universals we would all act differently and our society would return to the level of order and civility achieved prior to the 14th century. Doesn't that sound like a pragmatic argument in favor of metaphysical revision? Instead of spending time arguing the logical correctness and necessity of universals, Weaver demands that we accept them because doing so will lead to the desired consequences of order and civility. Although he regularly asserts otherwise, objective truth doesn't seem to mean much to Weaver because he approves of it primarily as a means to an end. 

I could say lot of other mean things about this book, but I am hoping further criticism is not necessary to deter you from reading it. Not only are Weaver's diagnosis and prognosis for civilization largely useless, but he comes off sounding like a total prude and jackass.
