        With all the fuss being made over - An Inconvenient Truth - the movie and book by Albert Gore Jr., it is appropriate to review his 1992 book: Earth in the Balance. This review will cover two key aspects of this book: his so-called couple between carbon dioxide and temperature; and his extremism.
	Gore discussed the carbon dioxide (CO2)  - temperature relationship on page 94. He showed a graph of temperature  and atmospheric CO2 concentration plotted versus time over a span of 160,000 years. With the exception of one point, his graph comes from chemical analysis of two mile deep ice core samples from Antarctica and Greenland, which is valid and exciting scientific data. Gore has called the data behind this chart as the most compelling evidence of a correlation between CO2 and temperature change.
	Both variables exhibit a saw-tooth profile. The graph for each variable is of a similar shape, and appear to move somewhat in parallel. Based on such a chart Gore  made the claim that CO2 concentration and temperature have moved in lockstep over this period. The word lockstep is far too strong for a simple visual correlation. The implication is also made that the change in CO2 concentration precedes the change in temperature, and hence is the cause for the change in temperature. However, it is impossible to tell this from such a graph. Indeed one could just as easily claim the reverse. 
	The behavior of these two variables represent the change in each variable due to the changes in other major variables, particularly the orbital parameters of planet Earth as it travels around the sun. Yet Gore is basing all of his conclusions on his eye-balled correlation.
	Further, this data is highly compressed and displayed over a space little more than two inches in width in his book. The basic time unit is estimated at 2,500 years per point. A single tic on this graph--say 1/32nd of an inch in width--would represent 2,500 years of history. Thus a mere 1/32nd of an inch would represent the huge number of weather events over 2,500 years, averaged to a single point.
	The second problem with this graph is the last point shown. This is not part of the scientific record. Rather it is one scenario projection, out of dozens of scenarios, of the future CO2 level. This step is particularly egregious as this point brings the graph height to seven inches, on a graph that would only be two inches tall otherwise. This is pure distortion and misrepresentation.
	This critique is a perfect example of Gore gaining some validity by "cherry picking" valid scientific data, but simplifying it, extrapolating it and misrepresenting the situation until it literally has no meaning.
	On a second subject, some of the writings by Gore are quite disturbing. Several quotes are examined.
* In the first quote he equates the dangers to the environment to the dangers of nuclear war. "Nuclear war is an apocalyptic subject, and so is global environmental destruction."
	Can this be a truly sound judgement of the state of the environment after years of the EPA, after years of automobile fuel and exhaust improvements and after billions of dollars of environmental control investments in all our utility and manufacturing industries?
* The next quote broadens the doomsday view to the ecology. "Today the evidence of an ecological Kristallnacht is as clear as the sound of glass shattering in Berlin."
	Again can this be viewed as a precise, sound and fair diagnosis of the ecological situation? In this quote he equates Americans' use of natural resources with Nazism. He goes on "...the environmental crisis is so serious that I believe our civilization must be considered in some basic way dysfunctional. "... In this terrible century... we have witnessed some especially malignant examples of dysfunctional civilization: the totalitarian societies of Nazi Germany under Hitler, fascist Italy under Mussolini ... in psychological terms, our rapid and aggressive expansion into what remains of the wildness of the earth represents an effort to plunder from outside civilization what we cannot find inside." 
	Yes, in Gore's mind, our society's embrace of what he calls consumptionism, resembles Nazi Germany society's embrace of totalitarianism.
* Next he contrasts the richness of nature to the emptiness of industrial civilization. According to Gore we live in an "inauthentic world of our own making. "Life can be easy, we assure ourselves. "We need not suffer the heat or the cold; we need not sow or reap or hunt and gather. "We can heal the sick, fly through the air, light up the darkness, and be entertained in our living room by orchestras and clowns whenever we like." Further into this quote he observes this false world was created by people to distract people from their psychic pain. He asserts that the world of leisure, air conditioning, industrial agriculture, modern medicine, and home entertainment is not good in itself. "It is but a fleeting sideshow." Finally he claims that only by somehow awakening from such in-authenticity will the cycle of psychic pain and environmental plunder be broken. It is not quite clear how Gore, who grew upo in a hotel, earned credentials to decide what is authentic in life and what is not.
	Gore seems to have come up with the following modus operandi. First he will proclaim an unprecedented environmental catastrophe is at hand. Next he will indicate only a handful of ignorant and unqualified dissenters oppose this assessment. Finally he would indicate that such dissenters are preventing him from moving ahead to solve this problem.
	As noted above Gore has a strange streak of extremism in his makeup. He clearly is not happy with our society. He equates environmental activists to resistance fighters. But does not this group of  activists include eco-saboteurs? Clearly Gore does not limit his concern to just the environment, but declares that we are in a midst of political, informational, inner-spiritual and deep philosophical crisis. He, I believe,claims to be the sole author of his book and to have put his heart and soul into it. He seems to believe in his book and all its comparisons of our society with Nazi Germany's or to the former USSR's. All of the above quotes and comments have earned him the extremist tag.
	No where has this been better exposed than in a 1995 column by Tony Snow. In this essay Snow contrasts statements by Gore  to those of the Unabomber. Snow noted that the vision advocated by the Unabomber sounds much like that stated in Gore's 1992 manifesto. The difference between the Unabomber and Gore is that Gore wants to achieve this via massive government bureaucracies, while the Unabomber would achieve this through mail bombs.	
	Al Gore's penchant for alarmism, inappropriate interpretation and outright misrepresentation in 1992, is surely food for thought as one reads his latest book or sees his movie
