Those looking for a wife in Russia, here is word of advise to you. I know many man who went to Russia and ukraine looking for woman. Few of them have a happy marriage.
Most (I didn't said all) men go there to find woman will not have a good marriage for several reasons,
1. Some men are pigs and going to find a woman in other country is an escape. They should change the way they treat woman. I know many Russian woman who had to flee from their American husbands.
2. Some American man will be deceived by Russian woman and think they getting into lasting relationships while woman want to get to US to get a permanent residency. Especially when age difference is more that 10 years. Why younger woman would mary much older man? Money and opportiunity most of the time.

I know christian man who was looking for a bride in post USSR country. He was in his 50's. Very religious man. But when it came to relationships, he is looking at 20- 30 year old woman. They (women) were disgusted just to think of being with him.

The are other guys who went to Russia. They were sitting on a curb in front of University. They weren't shaved and didn't look appealing. They would pick a beatifull young girl and would try to start conversation. Young ladies wouldn't even pay attention. Then old drunk lady came by and start talking to these american guys. And that's who would entertain these men. Russians don't sit on a flor and only drunkards sit on a curb.
I think anybody who says that Russian woman better than American has never digged deep in the U.S.A. There are also many Russian woman who stuck up. How will you, comming from a different country will find out what is gold and what is not? Go there, learn the culture, language, live there for 10 years and then you might be qualified to mary Russian lady.

I'm sick of a man who goes to other countries for the purpose of marying someone just because they see problem with woman in their own country. These man has a problem that they need to deal with before they can have any relationships. They need therapy, counceling, they are bossy and they are the ones who stuck up. They need to learn how Jesus treats the church and even died for it. Will you give up your live for the one you love? Or you only interested to satisfy your selfish desires
