This book was assigned text in a college class of mine.  I didn't get half way through it before I told the prof Id rather drop the class than finish reading the book.  He asked me to write a paper on my problem with the book's ideas.  The prof agreed with my concerns and the book was dropped, thought the bookstore already ordered them.  The prof took the heat and refused to assign the book the next semester.  I looked for my paper but could not find it.  Without spending a lot of time reconstructing it, let me say this book was not what it could have been.  One could write a useful book on perception vs. reality of silicone breast implants, or on the legal reasons behind labels warning ladder users that the hard ground the ladder was set on yesterday may have thawed and make for an unsafe foundation today.  To my recollection, it did not rail against idiot-proofing the world... though its point that a simple yellow line seems insufficient to keep people off the train tracks at the train station, yet works well for its purpose, is well taken.  The book seems to lean to - lets build the cheapest nuke plant possible, and with the money saved, the standard of living will increase, offsetting the inevitable disaster that will result from our risk taking, but at least our emergency response teams will be more resilient for having cleaned up the mess.  And how can you put a value on this increased preparedness?  (Letting alone the shift from corporate costs (prevention) to the government (clean-up.)  Yes, that is this book to me in a nut shell.  To conclude from a study of adding safety features to nuke plants, that the enemy is "counterproductive safety measures" (P.140), and not bloated, inefficient government, is unexplainable.  The author makes many statements using odd logic (often takes the position of the opposing side to 'straw-man' extremes), like this from page 25, "Poisons are an integral part of nature.  So is chemical warfare among plants, animals and insects.  To ban carcinogenic substances, therefore, is to ban life."  I am no biochemist, but is there another creature in nature that can create non-biodegradable carcinogens on anything like the scale of human beings?  If not, then perhaps this is why humans were given brains.  So we can perceive how dangerous we can be if left only to a motive of warfare, or of profit.  A true search for safety should properly factor in the unrecallableness of genetic experiments gone awry.  To this concern, the author simply uses the 'it hasn't happened yet' rebuttal (P.40)  Disregarding that 'killer bees' were a only breeding experiment, think of the possibilities of cauliflower virus markers in an un-natural host species?  Why does the media concern itself with the possible viral transmute bird flu, and ignore it when we do it intentionally to the vegetables we eat?  I would suppose the author would praise the mere spot checking of beef for mad cow disease, as do I.  But to defend the risks being taken with, the genetic engineering of food crops?  Regulation is the only safe method, and it is not being done.  But then again, the soybean crop has not been wiped out by a heretofore cauliflower virus - yet
