Randi comes across as a man who has missed the mark with his own life and now needs some justification for his existence which he finds in putting down people - it doesn't matter who is in question - all his books, including this one - say only how much he is pissed with his own life.  Uri Geller and others are incidental.  

All of his books are biased - the only things that he has printed in them is forcing his point of view, whatever he chooses to believe as the "truth".  

His books have nothing to do with any scientific research or proofs - they seem to come from an adolescent rebel.  His entire attitude is "I dare you to show me the proof, but I'll make sure to get you to see only what I want you to see, because I don't care to be objective - I only care to prove that I am right - even I'm wrong.  And any evidence to the contrary, I'll find the way to delete."

The only thing that Randi seems to delight in disseminating is anger - not information.  There is some deep unhappiness in Randi, and that has nothing to do with Uri Geller - it has to do with Randi being pissed with his own little limited world, because there's more to this world than meets the eye, but Randi doesn't know how to get it so it thrills him to deny even the possibility of such pleasure to everyone else.

Randi is hiding his own dark secrets that he is terrified to face and just as magicians and illusionists use distraction to get your attention elsewhere, so is he so badly attempting to distract both himself and others from what truly ails me.  Now Uri Geller and others are supposed to serve as scapegoats for Randi's feeings of unhappiness and lack of self-worth, because now that he has happily managed to put others down - he's bound to feel million times better about himself.  Now, finally he can perceive himself as a saint - or at least fake it as long as he can.

As for the rest, before you do judge Uri Geller, or whomever else Randi is pointing his finger at - get to know those people personally with an open-mind.  The world you discover just may not be as Randi would want you to believe and if you call yourself critical thinkers - then you should based your own critical judgment upon some solid evidence from your own personal experience and not the hear-say that Randi wants to serve you.
