THIS REVIEW IS ABOUT THIS PUBLISHERS EDITION NOT ABOUT THE BOOKS CONTENT ITSELF.

If you want to know about the content--- be aware that this book is copyright free and in the public domain and you can actually read the entire text free, online, if you are curious about the content of the book and what it is about. I am a person who prefers a real, bound book in the hand to reading on the computer screen or printing off a book onto computer paper.

I learned about this book as it is popular with homeschoolers using the Charlotte Mason method.

This book weaves science content into a story format (narrative format).

About this edition of the book--buyer beware!

I am very annoyed. I saw that Amazon sells three different publishers' versions of reprints of this very old book, before I purchased the book from Amazon.

Of course I am mad at myself for making a mistake, but I am also not happy with the way Amazon markets this Kessinger Publishing's version of this book.

I have had issues in the past with facsimile reprints of antique books sometimes being very hard to read. I took time to research this. I wanted whichever publisher's version has a readable font that is clearly printed.

The way Amazon presently has this item (book reprinted by Kessinger Publishing) set up on their webpage, I thought I was looking inside this book. Imagine my surprise when the book arrived and the printing itself is horrible! I can't stand to read this! Upon double checking this now, I see I made a simple mistake--if you don't want to make the same mistake that I made please read on...

It appears that this Kessinger Publishing version is a facsimile reproduction of the original. The old font type is hard to read. But the more problematic thing is that the ink is blobby and uneven. Specifically, I mean that some parts of the letters are missing (there is white space) while others are blobbed so that the letters don't look as they should, they are black blobs in some parts. I would prefer a book whose text is clearly visible. A modern font is also usually easier on the eyes.

I am very annoyed as this is not even the cheapest price edition of this book which is currently in print! Come to find out there are cheaper versions with nicer and easier to read font!

I am upset with Amazon additionally as the way they have this set up to "look inside this book" brings you to the edition published by the publisher "Yesterday's Classics" which has what looks to be a great font, a nice, clear, modern font and a good printing job. (Also today I received a different book purchased from Amazon by the publisher "Yesterday's Classics" and it is a wonderful printing job and a a nice binding to boot.

I will be returning this book to Amazon. Too bad I have to pay the shipping to return it to them!
