As to the best of my knowledge, there were two major intellectual responses to the seemingly endless and insuperable crisis which the capitalist system had got itself into after the Great Slump of 1929: Keynes`s "General Theory of Money, Interest and Employment" of 1936 and Schumpeter`s "Capitalism" which was first published in 1942. Like Marx before them, both Keynes and Schumpeter reject the "classic economists'" contention that what they called the market system wll always automatically swing back to an ideal equilibrium - expecially one that implied full employment - provided only the state kept its hands off as much as possible. 

However, that is just about where their concurrence ends. While Marx sees the only solution outside the system, in its bloody overthrow and its succession by a "dictatorship of the proletariat" introducing the next evolutionary step in human history, called socialism, Keynes considered the market system as basically viable. All that was needed, according to him, was governmental involvement by which the lacking demand in times of a slump would be lifted to more agreeable levels. Schumpeter, in contrast, agrees with Marx in that capitalism's days are counted and that it is about to be replaced by socialism, even though he doesn't share Marx`s more aggressive notions: according to him, the present day capitalists need not be dealt with by the guillotine alone, they may indeed have a useful function as entrepreneurs employed by his envisaged omnipotent and omniscient super agency that will ideally plan everybody's well-being in his imagined socialist system. 
What to think of the book today?
First, it is hard to fathom how Schumpeter could have turned such an absolutely blind eye on the totalitarian tendencies necessarily inherent in a state that not only controlled the political field but also was quasi the monopolist employer and as such responsible for the economic side of peoples's lives as well, in particular when one considers the time when it came out: 1942!
Second, it is a fine example of how wrong you can get things even if (or: because?) you know so much as Schumpeter did - maybe that is the best argument of all against the establishment of such a super agency planning everybody's life to the extent envisaged by Schumpeter.
Finally, even if such an agency did not err - is it not a basic right - and half of the fun of life - to make mistakes - for oneself that is, not forcing them on others
