This book deals mainly with sex magic and getting in touch with your personal Holy Guardian Angel ('Secret Lover'). I liked how this was related to being the Tiphareth Sephirah and also the reflection of Kether. There is much more to be said in this alone. I did like how this book encourages people to go beyond their fear, especially as relates to sexuality and Tantra. For me this was about all I gained from this book. 

The author(s) are both learners of Israel Regardie and Aleister Crowley. After reading Christopher S. Hyatt's `Secrets of Western Tantra' (See my review) and being very disappointed, I did not hope much more from `Sex Magic, Tantra & Tarot'. I did find it a little better and have given it one more star. Both of the books that I have mentioned above have similar information i.e. `lesser banishing rituals' and tarot card descriptions associated with personal meanings. If you are into path working and mixing it up with astrology, numerology, tarot and Cabbala etc you may like this. Personally, a good portion of these books come across as being a little wishy washy, new age self help for my liking. The author being a psychotherapist and counsellor probably has something to do with this. There is however a little more depth, probably due to the influence of Israel Regardie and the many years Hyatt has been involved with the occult.

The author states that Sex Magic and Tantra are "Not the same". "Tantra itself is a vast subject, of which sex-magic practices constitute only a small part...Sex Magic however, (requires) no more than a purposeful intent, skill in the techniques of magic, and a relaxed attitude to any possible experience or effect." The author states that this can be accomplished by a single person and couples of same or different sexes. Note also that orgasm is encouraged with the practices given. In `Secrets of Western Tantra' Appendix, via another writer Phil Hine (see also Hine's book `Permutations'- Sub heading - `Sodomy as spiritual fulfilment' pg 25), Hyatt gives techniques for "Cacodemonic Copulations" i.e. sex with Succubi and Incubi; also Evocations for calling an entity for the purpose of having sex with this demon lover. Hyatt states that there are dangers for those not equipped to handle this and gives techniques for getting out of this once all hell breaks loose. I know that the author would hate what I'm about to say, but let's face it, this is black Tantra. I can see that by performing the rituals one would get more in touch with their spiritual selves, yet I profoundly doubt that performing these exercises would lead one to enlightenment. Do what thou wilt with this my review, but remember Anubis is not deceived and shows now partiality
