Having observed the healthcare industry for the last couple of decades, I would like to point out a flaw in the author's recommendations:

Poor people are ignorant people. Ignorant people have no idea what are the appropriate "outcomes" in medicine. Telling a four hundred pound diabetic that the magic of good health can't start with making Big Macs disappear down his gullet, is the kind of strategy that produces massive and profound good "outcomes". Finding more efficient ways for the poor to avoid the consequences of this behavior and other truly stupid life choices is a way to more bad outcomes.

Middle class people are moving into the poor people category where wishful thinking and immaturity reign supreme in large numbers. (if someone's giving things away, it's best to get in the head of the line, not the end) Telling someone that they have caused a health problem makes them angry and resentful rather than relieved. Logically, one should rejoice that if they caused a problem and can then solve the problem, they can save a whole lot of time, money, and worry. Instead, they doctor shop and demand more and costlier diagnostics/treatment to avoid facing a life-style choice. So we should find more ways to let them? And make them happier about it?

Getting people to be happier with the healthcare industry means giving them more of what they don't need and hiding more of what they do; the truth. 

We moved recently from a major metropolitan area with a high population of upper income earners to a small, rural place with a high number of minority and welfare recipients. The local hospital, which is in the county seat, rates a consistently higher level of satisfaction among patients than the rich area.

Richer people have far less time, desire, and need to use the facility than the poor. Richer people pay more of the bill and have a better idea of the real value as related to cost although even their understanding is truly pitiful in relation to what they should know. And there's more incentive to stay away from it; they have jobs taking up some part of the day. Poor people careen from one self-inflicted crisis to the next and have plenty of time to swamp the hospital resources.

But more importantly, the hospital administration is hell bent on patient satisfaction surveys. In order to maintain their high rating, they are literally giving away health services to the poor (with taxpayer dollars, naturally). The more they give away to people, the more people line up to get it. Knowing that health care is being handed out more efficiently and with a smile is a recipe to put a bullet in the heart of the system now in place. Make it a silver bullet and promote a movie showing the gory end is the best way to get this whole thing settled, once and for all. But I don't think that's what the author intended.

Just one example, although I could swamp this site with more and still not run out; patient is a chronic substance abuser well known to the community. He gets on a bike at two in the morning because the bars are closed. With no protective or reflective gear on, wearing dark clothes, biking along a route with minimal lighting, and sporting a blood alcohol four times the legal limit, he swerves into the street where a hapless motorist hits him.

A few hundred thousand dollars and a week later, there's a disposition hearing at the hospital on what to do about a bum that is never going to pay this huge bill. Decision? Keep him in this acute care facility for the next thirty days so that the hospital can charge the state from its indigent fund.

How does the bum like free room service and drugs. A+++

When all is said and done, is our customer, the bum, well served by a facility providing for his every possible need? Just ask yourself how do you think he can afford to be a bum? (BTW, Mr. Bum turned down the motorist's auto insurance based settlement of $10,000. Even though the driver wasn't at fault, the company knows the cost of the nuisance lawsuit. But even that won't cut it nowadays for our liability lottery.)

Give the bum a better deal? No. Give him the true deal; patient, heal thyself. Now that's a good (and cheap) outcome!
