I was really expecting to get more out of this book.  First of all, I find the Daily 16 to be an excellent workout.  I had visible results after the first few days.  The rest of the book, however, is too thin.

Outside the Daily 16, the book really was not helpful.  It has sections on recruit training and on OCS, but they are mostly photographs with little information.  Most pages have a giant photograph and only one paragraph of text.  The recruit and OCS sections merely focus on certain points of training and do not give a comprehensive overview that you would expect out of a full-size book.  The writing style is also juvenile and simplistic, almost on a child's level.  In summary, the boot camp and OCS sections (more than half of the book) are nothing new to anyone who has perused the official USMC website.

The nutrition section was a major disappointment.  All it does is provide basic nutritional information that anyone who took Health in high school already knows.  The advice is very general, with obvious points such as "drink a lot of water" and "not all fats are bad" being common.    Some example meals and diet advice that is not common knowledge would have made this section worth including.  As is, it's a half-hearted attempt to fill pages.

The title of this book is "The Marine Corps Workout."  Of its 200-plus pages, only about 80 pages (the majority of which are oversized photos) are dedicated to the workout itself.  The sections on recruit and officer training do not count, because no attempt is made in those sections to show the reader how to do those exercises.  They are merely pictures of recruits in training for entertainment's sake.  The rest of the book is just filler to make it worth selling for ten bucks.

I think most of the people who rate this book highly are rating it merely on the basis of the Daily 16.  I give the workout itself five stars, but the Daily 16 routine is freely accessible on the Internet and not worth buying a book for.  Just google "daily 16" and see what I mean.  Outside of the workout, this is the kind of book you'd pick up off the library shelf, flip through for about 15 seconds, and put back.  You do not need to buy this disappointing book
