I read this book, as I do all other historical works, to fill voids and/or add different perspective to my knowledge of, in this instance, Nazi Germany.  Machtan presents his argument (evidence) in vacuum form.  In other words, the book reads like numerous single subject short bios in rapid fire form - there is very little text to give the reader his bearings.  Well, after wading through the entire book, I can only be sure of one thing: the author left no stone unturned or rabbit trail unexplored.  The exhaustive work put into this book cannot be disputed.  While the hard work is admirable, the book quickly bogs down into trite short bios on various men with connections, however, far removed, to Hitler.  With the introduction of each man from Hitler's past, we are presented with the same litany of circumstantial evidence and hearsay upon hearsay designed to make a case for that particular man's homosexuality.  Certain men, Ernst Rohm, for example, were known as members of the gay community.  Machtan offers nothing to make any substantial nexus between Hitler and Rohm regarding alleged physical relations.  Rohm is one of the exceptions to those studied in detail.  A majority of the men were not openly gay.  As a result, Machtan first has to establish a case for the individual's homosexuality.  Then, Machtan repeatedly makes the huge leap of "now that I've shown this man was likely gay - he was often close to Hitler ..."  Every bio on men from Hitler's past read the same: the man was probably gay because his landlady said he was odd (or he was a poet) and then insert some connection to Hitler.  The author also overlooks the fact that Hitler was, among many other things, a master of surrounding himself with those who had a secret, the keeping of which, they were reliant upon Hitler.  This was by design and gave Hitler additional power over his subjects - forced loyalty.  An obvious result of such a tactic was Hitler's close relations to men with "dirty little secrets".  History makes a much stronger argument that Hitler deemed such men useful to his ultimate goal. As the book inadvertently details, history lends no hard evidence to the notion Hitler was smitten with numerous men during his years.  Lastly, Machtan plays on the "well, just because nobody thought they were gay does not mean they were not - heck, nobody admits to being gay - not in those days at least."  Well, if that were the case, why the long book?  They were all gay and so was Hitler.  No thanks.  I will stick with Kershaw's Hubris and Nemesis as both works more than detail what Machtan attempts to "reveal".  Kershaw allows the reader to reach his own conclusion.  This is a great read if you like historical fiction and spoon-feeding
