Harwood's acknowledgements thank Mary Vandiver, a technical reviewer, "who double-checked the accuracy of what you'll learn here, to help us ensure that this book gives you everything you need to know about learning Latin."  Harwood and Vandiver (not to mention Alpha Books, the publisher) should be ashamed of themselves for allowing such a sloppily written and edited book to appear in association with their names.

The book is full of errors, worst of all in the exercises and answer keys.  For example, the correct Latin translation of "The work is produced" is listed as "Labor"; even I, a complete idiot, know that "work" in the context of the sentence should be translated as "opus" rather than "labor" . . . and that you kind of need a verb to complete the sentence.  DUH.

Little care has been used to make sure that the exercises can be beneficial.  For example, some of the exercises require a knowledge of vocabulary that has not yet been introduced.  The same translation exercise requires one to know that "hold" is "tenere," but that word doesn't make its first appearance until later in the text.  Yet the words "muraena" (eel) and "malva" (mallow) had been relentlessly drummed into my head--to what purpose I can't possibly imagine.

Likewise, the exercises undermine the credibility and utility of the author's flippant approach to grammar.  "But hey!" she says repeatedly throughout the text after introducing a grammatical concept in the most cursory manner possible, "Forget all that!"  (In the original, the words are even italicized.)  Yet it's impossible to provide correct answers to any of the exercises that require you to conjugate verbs without knowing whether a particular verb is first, second, third, or fourth conjugation--information she suggests is of little practical importance and that she fails to explain in sufficient depth.  Anyone who can successfully complete the exercises has no need for the book; those who cannot should thank Harwood and company for the frustration they experience.

The bottom line is that, as another reviewer stated, Latin is not a language for idiots.  If you only want a smattering, this book is better than nothing I suppose, but there are surely sources available that are more useful.  If you are looking for a introductory text to ease you into Wheelock or something else more advanced, STAY AWAY--this lousy book will only end up confusing and frustrating you, and you'll have to unlearn most of what little grammar it actually bothers to teach.

F
