Senator Obama'a latest screed is a book about politics, common gound and reclaiming the American Dream. People looking for some deep thought that transcends our political, social, and foriegn policy issues are bound to be disapointed, especially if you are a progressive who swooned over his Speech at the Democratic Convention 2 years ago. The book breaks down into his childhood in Hawaii youthful indiscertions (a little coke, herb etc..) and the transition into the man he is today. Obama's centrism is really oft- putting to someone like me who feels that partisonship is a good idea (At least your enemies know where you stand)he would rather work the middle ground and find soloutions to our problems that are at it's heart does not lend itself to a 'gray area'. 

The chapter I found on race is  typical Clinton doublespeak, As an Afro- American His appeal to 'universality' is trite at best because in one minute he knows he does not live an "authentic" cultural black expericence  Obama who is mixed is doing what Shelby Steele calls  " racial negotitating " making whites feel comfortable around someone like Obama who trusts that white america will do the right thing and he believes in the moral goodness of the majority white population and this country's ethos thereby he is liked for not challenging their morality. Obama tries to have it both ways empathizing with  the Afro- American and Hispanic  struggle (the vote he really needs to win election if he chooses to run for the Presidency)and he unlike many black intellectuals knows that the conservative movement used the symbols of the great society progress to butress their arguments in a "racial cold war". Obama fails when he lectures Latinos on Immirgration and by trying to find common ground he ends up alienating those who challenge this society's attitude about both blacks and Latinos.I think he is naive about race in this country, I for one do not trust the majority society to treat us with brotherhood and charity (after 389 years Afro- Americans ought to know better)I look at people as Enemies or Allies and white conservatives are the enemy of Afro- Americans or do we have to go to New Orleans for the Genocide (I see dead black people floating) they attempted last year.If Obama wants to negoitate with conservatives and find common ground that's his right, I would rather have power because it is the only thing White conservatives (and their minority allies) understand.

The last chapter he talks of his wife and her family that is the most touching thing in the whole book, his love for her seems genuine and you can tell he has empathy and concern for her and children in general. I feel that his book is just  and average at best. Maybe he might be President but he will not be the 'first black president'. But if you are a believer in Obama's charisma and think he can rise above petty politics and bring people of different races into a common American ideal then this book is for you, But if you do not like " Colorblind Centrists" like Obama and Harold Ford think they are weak 'Uncle Toms" then this book will to you be just average
