Key points:

1. One should read Allen's "Getting Things Done" (GTD) before reading "Ready for Anything" (RFA).  

2. If you've read GTD, you can probably skip RFA.  It reinforces some core GTD principles, often in a mind-numbingly repetitive fashion (which can be a good teaching style), but also tries to fill in some of "The Vision Thing" content absent in GTD.  Unfortunately, Covey is better than Allen in addressing "The Vision Thing."  Together, GTD plus Covey's "7 Habits" and "First Things First" (FTF) make an interesting collection.  

3. RFA suffers from the same design and layout issues I found with GTD: the "inspirational quotations"  in the margins destroy the reading flow as they push into the space occupied by the main text.  The quotes distract the reader from the main text due to their intrusion into such and a lack of white space. IMO, there are too many inspirational quotes.  Allen should have simply started each chapter with one relevant quote, ala Covey's "7 Habits..."  I've noticed that some of the inspirational quotes are recycled from GTD and are sometimes better than the associated essay in RFA.  To see how to place quotes or references in the margins of a book's pages, Allen should review any of Edward Tufte's books, such as "Beautiful Evidence."  

4. There are obvious parallels throughout RFA to ideas in Covey's "7 Habits" and "First Things First."  However, there's no mention of Covey in the book (and he's only cited once in GTD via an inspirational quote).  Both Covey and Allen have interesting things to teach, but it seems Allen eschews any reference to Covey despite the obvious parallels to anyone who has read both authors.  In some cases, it seems Allen is taking pot-shots at Covey ideas, such as his reference to the "quadrant matrix" on page 22 of the paperback edition of RFA, an obvious reference to Covey's Urgent/Important matrix in FTF.

5. RFA makes no attempt to indicate when the included essays were originally published in Allen's newsletter.  It would be interesting to know when the original essay was published.  I'm sure they've been edited and updated for the book, but some connection to their stated original publication dates might be helpful in understanding where Allen was in his personal journey at the time he wrote the essay.

6. The "By the way..." items at the end of each RFA chapter may be valuable for readers who've not yet asked themselves some of the deeper questions or who are struggling with their GTD implementation.

7. IMO, the GTD Workflow chart, in a revised form in RFA, still needs work.  Perhaps they should not try to fit it on one page: use a two-page spread or, even better, a fold-out that one can also tear out.  The chart would benefit from the help of someone who knows how to draw flowcharts.

8. The paper in the paperback edition of  RFA is of a cheap, inferior quality compared to that used in the paperback edition of GTD.  To me, it feels like cheap newsprint.

9. RFA lacks an index.  A book like this, without an index, is most unfortunate, indicating perhaps a rush job to capitalize on GTD interest by recycling old essays.  Recycling content for additional profit is a good idea, but any book like this should include an index
