I'll not cover the topics others have speculated in great detail. And that's the point; Rand is an armchair speculative, grounding the support of her arguments from an Aristotlean, a priori-type logic that can "prove" just about anything. The greatest Aristotlean of them all, Thomas Aquinas, could prove or disprove just about anything and everything from the same logical method, and come up with all sorts of differing conclusions. Aquinas wrote his "Summa Theologica" using nothing but deductive logic, and upon close scrutiny, one ultimately has to ask: Is this really a reasonable (cf, rational) enterprise after all?

Using deductive logic, which Rand extols, can be helpful, but rarely leads to any "facts." It's merely speculation, and after a while, one has to ask if this whole methodology has any merit to it at all. Those committed to "strong reasons" will always speculate why their dogmas are superior to another's. But after a while, one begins to see that such a priori speculations are just that: An over-reliance on deductive logic to create a preference for one myth over another. The problem is that they are all myths, or false dogmas, or irrational conclusions based on spurious premises (even though the conclusions may be "valid," they aren't "sound").

For those tired of reading endless rational speculations based on nothing more than armchair a priori deductions, and becoming confused rather than enlightened about human affairs, a good antedote to all these mythologizers is reading 18th-century empiricist philosopher David Hume's "Treatise on Human Nature." First, he proves that there are no a apriori foundations for genuine knowledge (opinion or belief).  All knowledge is a posteriori, that is inferred inductively from sense experience and the imagination's inferential patterns of resemblance, contiguity, and causality. Second, he shows that sensations and emotions are empirical, not a priori, and that they contribute just as much to our "knowledge" as does verification and non-falsibility. Lastly, he demonstrates that morals and the knowledge of them are based not on some pie-in-the-sky theory, but on the basic human inclination (shall we dare say "instinct") to maximize pleasure and avoid pain. For those who are tired of endless speculative metaphysical and highly rational (in the sense of overly a priori premises and conclusions) dogmas and myths, Hume is a great antedote.

Since Rand is no different from her progenitors Aristotle and Aquinas, whether you "choose" to buy into her armchair epistemology will depend on whether or not you've had enough of overly-deductive reason, outdated metaphysics, and irrational dogmas and myths. If you think she has the "answers," try out Hume's antedote to see that she might be just another in a long list of mythologizers
