Zionists "collaborating" with Nazis? Notwithstanding Brenner's misleading proposal, there's nothing really shocking or "explosive" here - not if you understand the true nature of this sought "collaboration." What is shocking, however, is Brenner's malevolent and false portrayal of the correspondences between the "Zionists" and the Nazis. Brenner writes about it as though he uncovered the greatest and most shocking secret in history. But to a serious historian, there's nothing really sensational about this. Simply put, it is a subject of very little value - so irrelevant that no respected scholar ever bothered writing an entire book about it. Only the likes of Brenner, a grouchy revisionist, Marxist, and self proclaimed anti-Zionist, would dare create a novelty out of this. And naturally, that's what revisionists do.

Note: By "Zionists", Brenner refers to the Stern Gang, also known as the Lehi group. Throughout the group's short lived history, it never saw more than one hundred members and did not reflect the views of mainstream Zionism. 

Anyhow, this fanciful propaganda book, written by the anti-Zionist himself, contains 51 documents that are supposed to prove his thesis. But the only thing this book proves is that Brenner is in fact the anti-Zionist he claims to be, and not much more. The documents that he presents simply do not fall in place with his arguments. Instead, what we see in these documents is the Lehi group attempting to negotiate with the Nazis. This may seem very strange to some people, but such dealings are not unusual - they occur everyday in virtually every society. For example, law enforcement officers negotiate with hostage takers, drug dealers, and other criminals on a daily basis. Even though both sides make demands and promises to each other, it would be very misleading to say that they are "collaborating," especially if one thinks in terms of a partnership. 

Brenner's central thesis is based on his belief that the Lehi group (which he refers to as "Zionists") co-acted with the Nazis so that a Jewish state would be created in Palestine, even if that meant a genocide against the Zionists' own people - the Jews. But that's not it. For Brenner, these documents prove to be more than just a negotiation process between the two parties. He portrays it as though it was a committed alliance, in which the Nazis and Zionists in general were working together hand in hand as one unit. Therefore, through Brenner's suggestion, todays Zionists should bare responsibility for the Holocaust and the State of Israel should not be supported. 

In reality, the Nazis' primary objective was to destroy the Jews in Europe, one way or another - a goal they almost accomplished via "The Final Solution." Had the Zionists "collaborated" with the Nazis in Brenner's terms, the whole purpose of Zionism would have been defeated. A quick overview of history shows us that during the 1930s, the infamous "Jewish Question" was addressed in Nazi-Germany. That is, "what to do with the Jews?" Assimilate them? Segregate them? Or expel them (i.e. send them back to their land of origin, Palestine)? The Lehi group, well aware of Nazi persecution against the Jews, made efforts to persuade the Third Reich to select the third option, and for obvious reasons - so that Jews would escape from Europe's anti-Semitism and ultimately establish a Jewish state in their ancient homeland, where they would be free from persecution. In return, the Lehi group offered to help the Third Reich fight the British forces. It is true that the Nazis contemplated the thought of sending Europes Jews back to Palestine, but that idea was never actualized. 

After continuously refusing to comply with Lehis requests, the Nazis eventually invented "The Final Solution" and sent six million Jews to their deaths in concentration camps. That's two-thirds of all European Jews, dead. Had the Nazis not been defeated, they would have killed ALL of Europe's Jews. So how could a Jewish state be created if all the Jews are dead? How can a country be built without people?  The fact is, whatever negotiations passed between the two parties was strictly self-beneficial. Read these "documents" for yourself. The Nazis had absolutely no intentions of helping the Jews achieve their true objectives, or vise-versa. However, this former marijuana-smoking hippie believes otherwise.

To put things in better perspective, let's observe the following events: In 1933, the Roman Catholic Church signed the infamous concordat with the Nazis. Pope Pius XII even wrote Hitler a letter of congratulations in which he complimented the dictator and assured him that the Vatican entrusts in his leadership. During that era, many catholic clergymen, like Archbishop Orsenigo, Bishop Berning, Bishop Wilhelm Berning, Cardinal Theodor Innitzer, Adolf Bertram, and many others, openly supported the Nazis (even during the war). It is also well documented that after the war, many Catholic churches offered protection to Nazis and even supplied them with passports so that they could escape to South America. 

Now, although one can rightfully criticize the Vatican for all of the above, including not speaking out against the Nazis and permitting Catholics to practice anti-Semitism for centuries, it would be false to say that the Roman Catholic Church "collaborated" with the Nazis to kill six million Jews. Not even the harshest critics, like, John Cornwell, author of "Hitler's Pope" would make such claims. But as you can see, any anti-Catholic person could easily assemble hundreds and even thousands of documents and contort them as he wishes to convince an uneducated person that the Vatican literally collaborated with the Nazis to exterminate the Jews. The Vatican did "collaborate" to a certain degree with the Nazis in political terms, and so did a tiny radical Zionist group called Lehi - but not the way Brenner wants you to believe.

The problem with "new scholars" and revisionists like Brenner is that their research is based primarily on their personal beliefs and political agendas and not on historical evidence. Their beliefs become the main emphasis and actual historical facts become immaterial. Revisionists simply do not have any sensible scholarship principals. An honest historian would never incorporate personal beliefs with facts. Doing so would simply result in creating - as in Brenner's case - a work of fiction.

This is a poor book, with a clear anti-Israel agenda targeted for the uneducated.
