I think this book promotes an unhealthy expectation of marriage. The author's only defense is to keep repeating "Why are you so defensive?" when he mentions his ideas. As a married woman, I think it is important for couples to have space, other friends, and the freedom to enjoy life in whatever way makes them happy. This does not take energy away from a marriage- it gives more energy to it. 
He says that you shouldn't joke or ask advice or basically have any conversations with anyone of the opposite sex because you should be saving all your conversations for your spouse. Well maybe my spouse doesn't get those kinds of jokes or doesn't know the subject I'm asking about. I'm supposed to deny those parts of me. I'm supposed to have a boring time at work and not talk to anyone. He must be a pretty dull person to not have enough conversation for more than one person, because I can talk to a coworker, and (gasp) I can still have a conversation with my husband when I get home!
 Let's say you like to play chess and your spouse does not. Are you supposed to give up playing chess, or is it so horrible to play chess with someone outside your marriage? You won't be able to get your spouse to be everything you want, and it's not good to believe that you can change someone into what you want.
I do have friends outside my marriage. I even have male friends.  My husband does not care. You know why? Because he's not pathetically insecure like this author. It's not wrong to have coffee with a coworker. I think it's more wrong to be so controlling that you find a cup of coffee to be a betrayal. It is immature to think that every time you smile at someone it could lead to an affair, or that you can relate to your spouse in every way and don't need anyone else. 
The idea that spending time with someone else takes energy away? That sounds a little cultish to me, as if you have to focus 100 percent of your time and attention. You're having marital problems, so the solution is to stop having friends or pleasant conversations with coworkers? That's supposed to make you happier? I suppose he thinks if two people don't get along, you should lock them in a room together and suddenly they'll be in harmony. I don't think so! They'll probably be ready to kill each other! Maybe it works for him, but I don't think it's anywhere near working for every couple. For many it will be forcing something that just doesn't fit. 
I think that if you shut yourself off from the world, you may be more likely to want out. You could feel more isolated and if it doesn't work out, you won't have anyone to turn to. I think this book also gives fuel to anyone with pathological jealousy.
He even admits that he doesn't shake hands with other women. He says he is a rabbi, but he sounds like he'd be more comfortable in an Islamic Fundamentalist society where men and women are kept separate.
