
Everything about the cover of Profoundly Disturbing - the shaky letters, the posed fright on the creased poster, the phony rating, the chapter titles mimicking credits, the dirty-looking border, and the display copy's warped cover, making it look used - fairly screams, "DON'T PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR THIS BOOK!"  (Fortunately, amazon has discounted it.)  When did paperbacks start costing $24.95?  Especially one by Joe Bob Briggs - has he abandoned his working-class supporters?  His earlier paperbacks were less than $10; even hardcover editions of Cosmic Wisdom and Iron Joe Bob weren't $20.  Why is this book's price so high?

A look inside shows where some of the cash goes.  Glossy pages that reflect the light's glare make it hard to find a comfortable reading position.  The text is split into two columns, divided and almost surrounded by red borders.  Little red movie-related symbols cross the top of each page.  Why the obsession with red?  Has Joe Bob gone Communist on us?  Movie posters introduce each chapter.  And some awful fonts are chosen for the first paragraph of, and various statements from, each chapter.  In short, style trumps substance.  Why does Joe Bob require special effects?  He IS a special effect.

Well, he was.  Here, he makes his case for the movies that most influenced public tastes and later film making, some of which are known more for promotional antics than artistic merits.  He discusses how the idea for each movie originated, summarizes the plots (revealing each ending so that if you've never seen the films, you'll not be interested now), attempts to interpret those movies that make no sense, tells why he thinks the movie is important, and goes over the careers of the key actors, directors and/or writers involved, scattering trivia throughout.  At the end of each chapter, a guide covers related movies, often repeating information from the chapter.

While competent, the writing rarely rises above standard research reporting, and often failed to maintain my interest.  For example, I took 3 breaks while reading about And God Created Woman.  Why would any red-blooded American man make Brigette Bardot boring?

In his Reservoir Dogs chapter, Joe Bob condones plagiarism.  Does it follow that he steals from other writers?  If so, who?  I thought his style and outlook were unique, but if not, I'd like to read what his victims wrote.  Citing sources is common courtesy:  copying for profit or glory is theft.

For the money, too much is missing from this book - say, about 150 pages.  The index is incomplete.  It lists only movies, ignoring all of the people involved, as well as the innovations introduced.

Maybe Joe Bob felt that his coverage of Deep Throat was getting (ahem) long, but he fails to note that Linda Lovelace's nipples are never shown in the movie.  He doesn't explain the 1969 Naked Came the Stranger hoax.  He claims that, other than Linda, Carol Conners and Harry Reems, Throat actors had no later roles:  he completely overlooks Dolly Sharp, who, as Gloria Leonard, appeared in several X-rated movies through the 1970s, including one that he mentions, The Opening of Misty Beethoven.  (She also published the glossy adult magazine High Society, and hosted an adult cable TV show in New York City.)  Deep Throat was probably Gloria's best performance, though; she subsequently refused any on-screen anal scenes.  Now that's disturbing!

Joe Bob asserts that The Texas Chain Saw Massacre introduced the chain saw as a weapon.  Not so - it was used a year earlier in Last House on the Left (granted, in self-defense).  He notes Saw's influence on metal bands, but neglects its effects on punk:  Johnny Rotten enjoyed the movie, and the first Ramones album includes a song about it.

Several more movies could have added bulk to this book, including The Birth of a Nation (1915), Birth Control and The Hand That Rocks the Cradle (both 1917), Triumph of the Will (1935), M (1951, or the 1932 German version), Night of the Living Dead (1968), A Clockwork Orange (1971), Carrie (1976 - Joe Bob mentions a 1977 movie called Ruby, also featuring Piper Laurie, which reads like a Carrie rip-off), Caligula (1980), and Basket Case (1982).  Night of the Living Dead was mentioned in early promotions of this book, but that chapter must have been cut. 

The most glaring omission, though, is Joe Bob himself.  After he temporarily quit writing in 1997, he seemed to have undergone a humor removal operation.  Where is the social commentary laced with his acerbic wit?  Where are such characters as Bobo Rodriguez, Cherry Dilday, and Rhett Beavers?  Where is his uncommon wisdom, so desperately needed in this country?  Apparently, they're all in his distant past.  H. L. Mencken estimated that a good writer has about 10 years of worthwhile work before he burns out.  Perhaps, then, we're lucky that Joe Bob provided a solid 15 years of refreshing, opinionated literature.  His writing used to provoke my delightfully shocked reaction, "Did he just SAY that?"  Throughout Disturbing, I kept wondering, "Why am I still reading this?"

Film scholars might find this book interesting.  To me, Profoundly Disturbing is primarily disappointing.
