I have been a fan of Star Trek for many years now, and I'd heard about this book.  "The Physics of Star Trek", sounded like a really fun read.  I was interested to know how some of the technology that was invented for the show might be practically applied, or how it could work in the real world.

But the Author goes about destructing the technology and "physics" of star trek and telling us that "it wont work because...".  That might be a better title for this book "Star Trek technology wont work because..."

OK, so we all know that star trek is fiction - It is not real.  If you think its real your in a bit of trouble.  But it is nice to once and a while escape into a world of make believe and fantasy.

This book goes about systematically disproving and destructing the technology and "physics" of star trek, umm ... we know its not real ok?  For example, there is a section on Warp Drive.  The author spends (too much) time setting the scene of a ship in orbit and the captain tells the ensign to set a course and go to warp.  He then goes about explaining that if the ship went to warp everybody would be turned to moosh against the back wall.  Then goes about explaining why warp drive is not possible because you cant handle the G-forces.  Wow!  What an insight.  Star Trek will probably tell you that there is other technology helping prevent this ... like inertial dampers perhaps, and the main deflector `deflecting' space dust?

This is all beside the point when you consider that Warp Drive is theoretical at this stage only, and it was made for TV.  It is like a University in USA that performed wind tunnel test to see how the Enterprise would handle space flight.  Then witting a report explaining that the design of the ship is totally wrong and it would break apart.  How stupid can you get, why would you bother going out of your way to disprove a fictional technology.

I would have preferred this book to acknowledge that the technology in star trek is not possible in its current form, but would it not be wonderful if we could transport from one place to another in a blink of an eye, and this is how it might work?

If you are considering this book as part of your star trek collection, better look elsewhere.

Anoth reviewers wrote the following that I think are importaint points also...

Mr. Krauss does a great job of explaining why Star Trek technology is impossible in the real world. What I wanted to know was how it worked in the Star Trek world.
-"rickandsue" (Weymouth, MA United States)

...And all his assumptions on the technology is using modern day physics, which is portrayed by the author as the absolute truth to the universe. 500 years ago it was impossible to circumnavigate the earth, 50 it was the sound barrier, I suprise a scientist would say that anything(such as warp drive) is impossible no matter what improvement in physics.
-locutus@oz.net "fedallah4" (Silverdale, Washington)
