Church growth is a tricky business. If your church stays too small, you run the risk of everybody getting old and dying and the church dying too. People will say that your church has no vision and no passion. Get too big and some will immediatly call your church a sell out, consumeristic, and shallow.

This is the fine line Mark Driscoll writes about in his new book, Confessions of a Reformission Rev.. Mr. Driscoll is the head pastor of Mars Hill Church in Seattle, Washington, a 4,000 member congregation in the downtown area which attracts a large number of young and secular people. This book is sort of a memoir of the church, from it's beginnings in the late nineties in Mr. Driscoll's living room to it's current home in a huge warehouse in Seattle where 4,000 members come through every Sunday.

There's some good stuff in this book, especially if you're interested in church growth, but also for anyone who has struggled with the feeling of a call by God. However, through much of the book I kept having the same feeling I get when I watch Fox News, this pent up frustration that I hold inside that makes me want to just start yelling at the TV (or in this case, the book).

This, I think, is exactly how Mr. Driscoll would want me to feel. His style of communication is gritty and course. While there are several very humorous passages throughout the book, several attempts at humor walk the line of good taste and after several of these semi-humorous mishaps, one gets the feeling that Mr. Driscoll is attempting to shock for the sake of shock, as if to say "Christians can cuss and make off color remarks and talk about masturbation just like everybody else", and while I agree with that sentiment and perhaps some people need that rammed down their throat, it becomes tiresome after only a few chapters.

The best parts of the book are when Mr. Driscoll focuses on his church. In fact, the book would have benefited from more material on the actual growth and hardships of the church instead of focusing so intently on Mr. Driscoll's own personal struggles. The narrative of the book suffers from this lop sided perspective, I think. Through several chapters it's as if Mr. Driscoll can't decide whether he is writing a personal memoir, a story of a church, or a church growth guide. All three topics would have been suitable for their own books, or at least their own sections of a book, but to have them crammed together as they are leaves much to be desired in cohesion.

Mr. Driscoll's theology seems to be a curious thing, at first. He hangs his theology under the banner of the reformed tradition and likes to drop the name of John Piper and several other noted reformed people at the end. Yet, his church is planted squarly in one of the most secular and politically liberal cities in the country. Indeed, Mr. Driscoll's politics seem to lean to the right, although he never comments on politics outside of the realm of scripture. What he does have to say about others who view theology and the politics of society differently than him is less than kind through most of the book. Apparently, Mr. Driscoll is noted for being a brash and outspoken person, and he does not dissapoint his followers in this book. He routinely degrades the gay and lesbian community in Seattle, has no tolerance for women in positions of power in the church (often using deragotory nicknames for such pastors), making at least one remark about Rodney King that could be taken as racially insensitive remark, has several unkind remarks for any man who does something that might be construed as "sensitive" or effeminate (like drinking tea), and generally finds ways to not like people who don't think like he does.

Mr. Driscoll also finds ways to throw a few low blows towards those that might disagree with him theologically, at one point accusing pastor and author Brian McLaren, a pastor whom Mr. Driscoll was once affiliated with, of destroying Scripture with his views and teaching. This is, of course, after he praises McLaren for being a nice guy. While such disagreements are bound to be had, such glancing blows as this are out of place and not holding with the chivalrous aura that Driscoll seems to want to have for him and the men of his church.

In the end, however, even after all of the faults of this book, I could not help but come away with an appreciation for Mars Hill Church. It truly seems to be a congregation seeking God through worship, scripture, and community, and it is doing it in a place where it would truly take a miracle to accomplish such feats. I cannot help but be inspired by what God is doing in the lives of the poeple of that community.

Mr. Driscoll is always quick to own his mistakes in the growth of this church, but overall, the book lacks a true sense of humility. There will be much more growth for this church, and perhaps the growth will be despite what anyone says or does and not because of it.
