Okay, I'll admit that by the time I got around to reading Winter's Tale, the book was already suffering from a fatal dose of overhype; I must have heard twenty or thirty fairly literate people wax rhapsodical about the thing over the years, several of whom claimed that it was the greatest book they had ever read.  Still, hearing rave reviews of Shakespeare, Dickens, Ellison, Grass, Vonnegut, Hemingway, etc. never stopped me from appreciating genius when I experienced it for myself.  Helprin, while clearly a gifted writer (a phrase that most reviewers use to describe him), is no genius, and the best thing I can say about Winter's Tale is that I get the sense that it took him a long time to write it.  The main problem for me is that the lengthy descriptive passages always feel overwrought and pretentious, like a hammy performance by an otherwise talented actor.  I dislike being aware of the writing process while I am actually reading someone's work, and Helprin never lets me forget that I am in smack dab in the middle of a book that insists it is a magnum opus--that is an unpardonable sin, as far as I am concerned.  Gunter Grass, whose genius I mention above, somehow manages to convince me that all his outrageous stylization is actually some sort of stream of consciousness, and via translation, no less.  Shakespeare is famous for making blank verse sound like natural dialogue.  Helprin, as his admirers are fond of pointing out, is intoxicated with language, but whatever his skills, he isn't capable of passing that intoxication along to all of his readers. Hey, I love energetic verbal ingenuity as much as anyone I know, but I am not a language whore.  So, while I do acknowledge that Winter's Tale is capable of captivating a huge audience, it nevertheless lacks the universality that I expected it to possess based on its reputation.  And, after reading some of the other reviews here, I can see that I am not alone.  If I had to rate it strictly on my own appreciation of its merits, I would give Winter's Tale a half of a star.  That I give it two stars is merely my acknowledgement of the fact that appreciating fiction is largely a matter of taste.  But true literary genius is not
