Anna Quindlen has many gifts, but subtlety is not one of them. Nor is originality. Just about every character and plot device in this novel has been used before -- many, many times before. Oddly, for a hell-on-wheels nagging feminista, Anna Quindlen seems unduly influenced by male authors (and cliches.) She steals much, but understands little. 

Let's see, a family saga about a wealthy immigrant clan ruled by a shady, all-powerful patriarch. GODFATHER, anyone? Just as John Scanlan is clearly Don Vito, so is uber-achiever teen girl Maggie Scanlan clearly in the Michael Corleone position. She's all but anointed as his successor -- at thirteen! The only problem is, all the tough moral questions Michael Corleone has to face are carefully airbrushed away for Maggie. The old man is a brute, a bully, and all the usual feminist crybaby stuff -- but it's perfectly all right for Maggie dearest to inherit all that yummy money.  

On the other hand, this book also owes a surprising debt to TOM SAWYER. Tom Sawyer and Maggie Scanlan are both the smartest, liveliest, most charismatic kids in the neighborhood. Both are surrounded by dumb, weak-willed sidekicks who exist only to make them look good. Maggie has the blandly obnoxious Debbie Malone, and Tom has Ben Rogers, Joe Harper, and -- dare I say it -- future hero Huck Finn. Tom Sawyer and Maggie Scanlan are both expected to have brilliant futures, if they don't drown, burn, or blow themselves up in the process of having their amazing but never truly subversive teen adventures.  

The most interesting TOM SAYWER parallel is in the use of the hero's nemesis or arch-enemy. Tom has Injun Joe, and Maggie has her cousin Monica Scanlan. At first glance a vicious murdering half-breed and a luscious Grace Kelly lookalike might not seem to have much in common. But it seems that compassionate feminista Anna Quindlen hates blondes even worse than Mark Twain hated Indians -- she's just less honest about what she feels!

Look at all the amazing similarities. Injun Joe and Monica both torture the hero in secret, when no one can see them. Both are masters of disguise. Both meet horrible fates that the heroes don't create but -- oh, so sorry! -- don't manage to prevent on time. There's a certain have it both ways hypocrisy in both novels. Twain claims to present America as a land of innocence and hope -- only the Indians have got to go. Anna claims that Maggie and her luscious college girl mentor Helen are going to build "A New World" for all women  -- but first the blondes have got to go the way of the Indians. Ah, Sisterhood!

This tiresome business of bashing beautiful women goes back a long, long way in feminist literature. Poor Monica Scanlan is in good company, along with Hetty Sorrel, Rosamund Vincy, and Lucy Deane. (You can look up these fascinating ladies in the novels of George Eliot -- better yet, don't bother.) It's good to know that, like the nobility of the Bourbon restoration, the feminists of today have learned nothing and forgotten nothing. 

Did I mention that the budding romance between Maggie and her shy boyfriend Bruce is handled with unusual skill and sensitivity? It's the best part of the book by far. Anna Quindlen has missed her calling -- she should be writing YA romance!

But of course, that sort of novel would be beneath a Barnard graduate. 

