Some of you may be familiar with the movie that bears the same name as this book. It shares a lot of instances with the movie, even though it takes place on a smaller sloop instead of a frigate. Several movie scenes were derived from the book, including some instances of dinner time banter, as well as the rigging of a decoy raft for the purpose of throwing off a pursuer at night.

The story follows Jack Aubrey as he finally receives a ship to command, a 14 gun sloop captured from the Spanish, and named the Sophie. He acquires a valuable friend through his love of music, named Stephen Maturin, who turns out to be a physician and an amateur naturalist. The battlefield is the Mediterranean Sea, and the home base is Gibraltar. Most of the book deals with the extraordinary success of the Sophie as a merchant raider taking various prizes across the southern coast of Spain and France, culminating in her greatest feat, the capture of the Spanish frigate Cacafuego (which translates just how you imagine it would), a much larger, more powerful vessel. There doesn't seem to be a great driving plot to the story other than a telling of events, along with a few side-plots which seem to be only of mere cursory importance, largely due to O'Brian's writing style.

Patrick O'Brian writes in a style that's hard to follow, partly because it's written in the English of the time, and partly because it's exceptionally dry for what someone would expect from a war novel. The concept was very sound, but I had a hard time feeling as inspired about what was happening, without closing my eyes and adding my own visuals to the plot, and imbellishing the passion behind a lot of the action. This is illustrated by a few of the instances that were adapted to the screen for the movie featuring Aubrey. For one example, while speaking about his encounters with Lord Nelson, I remembered the setting vividly from the movie, with the decent performance from Russell Crowe, and the reactions and faces of the men around him while they listened. The gravity of the moment was very well portrayed. In the book, it passed like the droll reading of a ship's log. His story was stuffed in a paragraph of speech and passed as dryly as everything else, with hardly any descriptive detail given to Jack's reverence for the subject, or the emotional reactions of those listening. So much of the book is like that, so it helped me to keep a running movie in my head, adding much needed descriptive seasoning to what I was reading.

The book had its high points, and even a few amusing points. O'Brian seems to write better when there isn't much in the way of action going on. Though, at times, the characters have a hard time just being direct with one another, and in effect, the reader has to be sharp enough to read between the lines of what they're saying to get the real meaning. A case in point was when Stephen was examining Jack, only to declare that his problem had to do with the woman he was sleeping with, Captain Harte's wife, had been surprisingly friendly all around. I don't know if I'm supposed to derive from this that Jack had contracted a venerial disease, or if it was simply a warning about the threat of Harte's grudge. Either way, I wish that in this, and in many other instances, O'Brian had made the effort to make things more clear.

The book left me without the urge to continue the series. Maybe I'm an uncultured bafoon, but I'm not going to force myself to read things that don't appeal to my sense of entertainment. I don't think I should have to envision descriptive imbellishments and then hope I'm correct, in order to feel enthralled by the books I read
