Since this seems to be the subtext of the book Are Men Necessary, I think it should have been the title.

I read her excerpt from Are Men Necessary: "What's a Modern Girl To Do." I am giving it two stars because as a graphic designer, I like the 50s-style book cover illustration of the woman in the red dress reading a book in a subway train while the male passengers are watching her. 

I am a single woman just like Maureen Dowd. But I think I know why she is having trouble dating.

She only goes out with rich, powerful men; usually celebrities, Republicrat or Demopublican politicians, and Beltway journalists sycophantic to them. These men probably really don't want a smart, talented woman. Why would they, when they're used to dating women who are just as shallow as themselves, and, if they're Beltway journalists, don't seem to dare criticize the Bush Administration like she does? For this very reason, her making fun of the Bushies and John Kerry in her columns probably alienates these men from her even further. I wouldn't be surprised if these very same men loathed Stephen Colbert and anonymously left death threats on his voicemail after he ranked on George Bush at the correspondents' dinner last April. Although her columns do sound bitchy and childish and no less superficial than her dates do; since these articles dwell on the politicians' personalities more than their policies.

I live in San Francisco, and do computer art and consulting for a living. I'm sure this requires more brain-power than writing a fluffy book complaining that men don't like smart women. I've been to Burning Man. I'm in the Green Party. Why am I mentioning these all-too-personal-and-irrelevant things? Because if these men don't want to date Maureen Dowd because she's too talented as she claims, they would probably not want to even think about dating a semi-hippie computer geek like myself. If she's really too smart for them, they'd consider me too much of a freak.

But I accept this. I guess it's much easier for me to not lose sleep over the fact that elite men are probably not going to like someone like me than it seems to be for Maureen Dowd. Because these men are not part of my world, but hers.

I'm not surprised she assumes that all men hate smart, talented women. It's because these are the only types of men she associates with. Fortunately, there are lots of decent, thoughtful, hard-working men out there who are not nearly this petty. But if she really wants to find them, she'll have to get out of her Hollywood-Beltway ghetto/ivory tower and into the real world.

To summarize, "What's a Modern Girl To Do" is nothing more than a sour-gripes-fest complaining that she can't get a rich, powerful man. Well, I can't either.

Maureen needs to hang out with a different crowd, like I do
