This book belongs in the Fantasy section of the library.

Let's start with the question of Israel's borders.  Do some folks say that these borders ought to be the Nile and Euphrates rivers?  After all, Israel is kind of small.  Doesn't it need, um, a tiny bit more land?

Well, Israel may need a little more land.  But almost nobody is proposing anything like this.  I see very few Israeli politicians demanding even all of the West Bank, let alone all of Jordan.  And as for the Nile to the Euphrates, this is pretty much exclusively anti-Zionist propaganda.  There's a nice article by Daniel Pipes in the March, 1994 issue of Middle East Quarterly that goes into this in some detail, in case anyone cares.

Yes, we've seen propaganda before.  In the 1930s, some Germans claimed that the Jews were planning to take over the whole world.  Now, what do we see in this book?

What we see in this book is Chris Hedges quoting someone as saying that Israel allows state-funded religious schools to preach that Jewish rule should extend from the Nile to the Euphrates.  Is there any connection between this and truth?

Yes, there's a connection.  You see, in the Bible (in Deuteronomy), Moses says at one point that Israel's borders shall run from the river Euphrates to the "western sea" (presumably, the Mediterranean, but definitely not the Nile).  Of course, someone might want to ask a Jewish authority about what the Bible says.  It turns out that there's much more detailed material in the Book of Numbers, and that is what Pipes says religious Jews are taught is Biblical.  And that specifies a much smaller Israel.  In addition, it is quite a leap to go from Biblical borders, no matter how large or small, to preaching that Jews ought to rule such an area today.  Hedges is doing us a big disservice here.  You may want to check all this for yourselves.

In addition, Hedges has an exciting description of the Battle of Khafji (which took place during Desert Storm).  Some people who were really there dispute it, however.  You may want to check that as well.

We also see Hedges describe the behavior of Israeli soldiers in Gaza on June 17, 2001.  Now, remember that these soldiers are trained to obey orders.  Their superiors know that Israel can't afford unnecessary violence.  The soldiers are there to protect lives, not to hurt or kill others.  And in fact, it turns out to be true that in the fighting between Jews and Arabs, the Jews (as expected) have rarely been guilty of gratuitous violence.  On the other hand, the Arabs, who have rather different goals and constraints, have displayed quite a bit of bad behavior.

Nevertheless, in spite of logic and facts to the contrary, in this book, Hedges comes up with the following (as usual, I encourage you to verify for yourselves what the truth is, and you might want to start by finding out how many people died that day and who they were):

"I had seen children shot in other conflicts that I had covered - death squads gunned them down in El Salvador and Guatemala, mothers with infants were lined up and massacred in Algeria, and Serb snipers put children in their sights and watched them crumple onto the pavement in Sarajevo - but I had never watched soldiers entice children like mice into a trap and murder them for sport."

Well!  What is it about Israelis that could lead them to behave in such a surprising manner?  Hedges speculates that exposure to all sorts of nasty reading material about the Holocaust has perverted these unfortunate young men.  Well, I'm perfectly prepared to believe that men and women from all nations have been exposed to all sorts of reading material.  But I don't buy Hedges' absurd conclusion at all.  Nor do I buy any of what he says about the behavior of the soldiers.  And no, I'm not in denial.  If you believe Hedges, I think you may be in denial, though!

I'll stop here.  Anyone capable of saying what I've quoted from Hedges so far is capable of saying anything.  We readers do not need this.
