Gays have been remarkably successful and promoting their social agenda not just in the US, but throughout the industialized world.  The last great obstacle they face is overcoming religious prejudice against their practices, so it is not surprising that when confronted with scripture that unequivocally condemns same-sex sexuality, they put themselves through all manner of logical and interpetive contortions to show that the Bible doesn't really mean what it says quite clearly.

There is little point in going through the book argument by argument and offering a rebuttal.  And I will say right off that in a way I agree at least partially with the author, when he says, for instance, that we should try to understand biblical teaching within context--historical/cultural analysis is a valid method of scriptural analysis.  

But the author claims, outrageously, that we modern-day Christians are interpreting biblical prohibitions against homosexuality  from a position of our own cultural bias. Nothing could be further from the truth.  That people during biblical times didn't recognize homosexuality as a "condition" (for lack of a better word) isn't particularly relevant, since they weren't codemning BEING homosexual, but ENGAGING in homosexual sex.  And this is pretty much the Catholic church's position today.  It is not a sin to BE homosexual.  It is a sin, though--borne of a "grave disorder" over which the person may very well have no control--to engage in same-sex sexual activity...just as it is a sin to engage in pre-marital sex, adultery, and so on.  It is a given, speaking from a Christian perspective, that people are borne imperfect and subject to all manner of temptations toward bad behavior.  How we act on those temptations is entirely up to us, though.  That we experience impure impulses is not proof that God wants us to indulge those impulses.

Which leads to an important part of Helminiak's argument.  He offers this:

1. Some people are born homosexual. It is a condition over which they have no control, like skin color, and height.

2.  According to scripture, God creates us.  Therefore, God creates homosexuals.

3. If we regard homosexuals as flawed, then we must assume God created them flawed deliberately.

4.  This would make God evil.

5.  God cannot be evil.

6.  Therefore, homosexuals must not be flawed.

7. If God did not create them flawed, he created them correctly.

8. God would not condemn what he created correctly.

9. Since God created homosexuals correctly, and does not, therefore, condemn them, it is wrong for us to condemn homosexual acts.

Sounds reasonable, right?  It's not, though.  First, #1 is never proved.  You can't assume a major premise unless for all practical purposes it is recognized as factual.  It must be widely accepted, or arrived at inductively in the argument.  The author provides no evidence to establish his major premise, that homosexuality is an inherent and immutable trait like skin color; he merely offers it as fact. It isn't a fact.  And there is plenty of reason to doubt his premise.

Once the major premise as been destroyed, the whole argument becomes moot, invalid.  But let's continue anyway....

He goes on to assert that God created homosexuals, and would not create people he knew he would condemn.  The idea of predestination varies among denominations, so I don't even want to go there.  What all denominations agree on, though, is that we live in a fallen world, and that all people are prone to sin.  It is as easy to say that God creates the pedophile, the dog-raper, the serial killer, and that we are foolish for considering these people flawed, because God created them.  Clearly, though, we are not wrong to consider these people flawed.  And just as clearly, God does not want these people to molest children or dogs, or murder their fellow humans seriatim.  Unless God is evil, which Helminiak already agrees he is not.  So Helminiak's argument falls apart because the principle he relies on is far from applicable to other other circumstances, other people.

To say God created man is not to say that God micromanages the creation and growth and daily actions of all people, or condones their poor choices and immoral actions.  Helminiak happily dispenses with reading scripture figuratively when it suits his purpose, but here seems to adhere to a level of literalness that I don't encounter outside of the strictest sort of fundamentalism.  He isn't consistent in his argumentation.

This is a book by an author who clearly knows ahead of time the conclusion he wants to arrive at, and seeks to find a way--any way--to get there.  He's not alone.  This isn't the only book I've read on the subject; the others make similar arguments, deliberately misinterpreting the koine Greek of the NT so that, in their minds, they can believe that when Paul condemns men who lay with men, what he is really condemning is men laying with male prostitutes, or boys.  But these interpretations are without foundation and fly in the face of the overwhelming bulk of biblical scholarship.

As an interesting insight into where Helminiak is coming from, consider what he has said in a PBS interview:

"I can remember the first time I deliberately went and had sex with someone. It was somebody I had known, who had approached me ... and I was being sympathetic because he's telling me he's gay... I thought God was happy that finally I got off my duff and did something. God said, 'Yay! Finally you're growing up! You're starting to live.'"

Say what?  An ordained minister of God, who has taken vows of obedience and celibacy, goes out, has sex with a man he met in his pastoral capacity, and God says "Yay!"?  Is this guy SERIOUS?

The Bible's prohibition against homosexual sex is not a cultural convention of an ancient people. The condemnations appear in Paul's vice lists.  Scripturally speaking, homosexual acts are, simply and unequivocally, vices to be avoided.  If you want to know what the Bible REALLY says about same-sex relationships, read the Bible, not Helminiak.


