Charles Whiting's _Battle for Hurtgen Forest_ begins harmlessly enough by openly questioning the legitimacy of the Huertgen operation and describing the brutality of the fighting and the harshness of the unforgiving terrain. In spite of the hardships of life at the front, Whiting quickly describes the efforts that were made to provide some rest and recreation for the American infantrymen. Whiting tells of Red Cross club mobiles set up in the Rear where ladies would hand out doughnuts and free coffee to the tired troops. There were also United Service Organization (USO) Shows that included such celebrities as German-born actress Marlene Dietrich. From this point on, however, this informative account takes a bitter turn for the worse."But for young men whose life expectancy in the infantry was exceedingly limited," contends Whiting, "something else was needed - women."  The author rants on how soldiers were routinely rotated out of the line for seventy-two-hour passes to Paris. Like a writer of bad pulp fiction, the author digresses into the city's famous red-light district the Americans all too commonly referred to as "Pig Alley." There, explains Whiting, "whores" who had serviced Germans for the previous four years were now infecting Americans by the hundreds with venereal disease.  "That fall," observes Whiting, "the United States Army sent 606 men, the equivalent of a battalion daily to the 'pox doctor.'" Unfortunately, the author fails to cite a single source and provides no evidence for this claim.Whiting jabs that while Americans were dying in combat, carousing in Paris, or deserting by the thousands (again no citation), Supreme Allied Commander Dwight Eisenhower was living comfortably in a French Chateau. Whiting takes every opportunity to discredit anyone close to Ike,  especially his British "chauffer-cum-mistress" Kaye Summersby. Similarly, he refers to General Everett S. Hughes as Ike's "card-playing, hard drinking womanizing crony" who once called a WAC [Women's Army Corps] "a double breasted GI with a built in foxhole." Whiting, once again, fails to cite a source or give evidence for this last sexist remark.Whiting goes beyond the Huertgen time-frame into The Battle of the Bulge, not to illustrate its correlation to the Huertgen Campaign, but rather to exemplify the  social gaiety at Eisenhower's Headquarters. As the author explains, while the German Panzer spearheads were roaring through the Ardennes, General Eisenhower was attending a wedding and champagne reception for two junior members of his staff. In yet another effort of tabloid journalism Whitingrecounts the delicacies being served:Eisenhower's 'darkies' as he called his black mess servants, were preparing oysters on the half shell, followed by oyster stew, with fried oysters concluding the festive pre-Christmas meal. And on-and-on!Whiting's sarcasm is evident-his message is clear, his evidence is severely lacking.  Obviously, the author's purpose for writing this sensationalism is to sell books. In fairness, Whiting makes some legitimate points concerning the Huertgen Forest battles and it is safe to assume that few readers are naive enough to think that high-ranking officers did not enjoy considerable more creature comforts than the combat rifleman sweating it out in a foxhole in the Huertgen Forest. It is the sardonic style in which he chose to present this view, however, that greatly lessens his credibility as a serious historian, something the opening paragraphs of the book initially suggest. The telling of the love affairs of generals may sell books but is of little importance in the thorough analysis of a significant battle such as the Huertgen Forest. Read MacDonald, Miller, Astor, or Rush, and leave this tabloid on the supermarket check-out stand
