This book is very well laid out, and points out both sides of the arguments. Very good for seeing what one side says to one issue, and what the other side says to the same. However, some issues are touchy, inerrancy being one.  Page 146 "the Bible is a  trustworthy communication by Spirit-guided interpreters and is true in all it intends to teach." The Bible was not given to men to teach them science, but the God of Science is the God of the Bible - If the Holy Spirit is the author of the text and He errs in some matter (in this case of science) then God is not God.  B.B. Warfield, whom they quote for the "conservative" position, is right. Go get a copy of Revelation and Inspiration, Oxford Press, 1927. Still the best. I am very concerned with how they also handle the Holy Spirit. While they acknowledge His place in the writing of the Bible, all I seem to read about is what did the author on earth mean? I see precious little to help one understand the place of the Holy Spirit upon the authors, except for a bit here and a dash there. How about what does the Bible say? Could we please get to that? I really do wish more biblical texts were quoted.  I am WELL aware many interpretations exist, but this does not negate the fact that we cannot deny the singular purpose of The Scriptures as the revelation of Jesus Christ. Yet, the reader feels lost on this point, and that could also be due to the fact that this book clearly needs an editor. As a humanities major, I went through line by line, and condensed almost 70-80% of the sentences. No appendx for terms, and a cursory index of subjects - I am disappointed that Nelson would let something like that slide especially when this book is used in higher education. It is a good book. Well researched. Covers both sides of an issue. Points the reader in the right direction. Helpful for the foundations of hermeneutics. Footnotes as far as the eye can see. But better exist. Can be improved - all hope is not lost -but a drawing board will be needed.
