Dear author, reader, brother, sister, friend,

I apologize for being the bearer of bad news, but the traditions in the Andes just arent quite what they used to be.  The author of this book conducted her so-called research in 1996, but a lot has changed in less than ten years.  The communities of Qeros have changed a lot too, and the supposed Reality the author tries to come to terms with in this book is very different from what she describes.  

Tourism and the Mystical Tourism industry in Peru have severely transformed the spiritual climate in Qeros, as well as elsewhere.  Most, but not all, so-called traditions that exist today are for the benefit of foreign tourists with money.  (I find it hard to believe that the author is unaware of that fact, though she doesnt mention it much.)  The supposedly mystical experiences and knowledge herein Must be received as one receives a report from a tourist.  In other words, take this book as the information gathered by someone who does Not speak the language, hasnt done her homework, got some of the names wrong, and interpreted what she saw through decidedly western eyes.  

While claiming to present the Andean Mystical tradition as a self-contained and unromanticized whole, the author does little more than reveal her own lack of cultural immersion and over-simplifications in the face of an entirely alien religious, mystical, and spiritual system (as bound, importantly, in a deep, ancient, and wholly unique cultural framework).  What little she does to reveal spiritual insights (and frankly, many of these insights are just cases of poor interpretation, or simply incorrect, period) is perverted by a lack of cultural awareness and sensitivity, paramount in giving the spiritual issues context.  

For many years I have studied firsthand with and have close friends among the Qeros, conversing in their language (Quechua), not mine.  What I have come to understand is that it is NOT vital that we understand their spiritual tradition-- in our western arrogance and self-importance, indeed it is insulting-- unless we are willing to do what it takes to KNOW the traditions.  

The author seeks to explain and understand, but just doesnt know at all.  I wish her well on her continued spiritual journey, but truly wonder what she hopes to gain by furthering a romanticized and westernized image of a very distinct spiritual and cultural tradition.  I give her the benefit of the doubt, though, and lament that perhaps she truly has no idea how far from the truth she is.  

(...
