Chomsky main failing in this work and it appears to be a recurring theme in his 40 year career as a propagandist, is he begins with a typical theory: America is bad and all that it does is bad, finds information to corroborate this through a creative process of distorting sources or failing to mention them all together, and ignoring anything that might deconstruct his theme. Despite Chomsky's belief that Bin Laden's attacks were driven by US foreign policy, all one has to do is go to the source, whom Chomsky believes can be taken at his word, to realize the goals of Bin Laden. 

All actions taken by Bin Laden and his organization have this specific and narrow goal: to re-create the Islamic Caliphate that existed centuries ago and basing it on Shari'a. It is driven by a chauvinistic belief that "Dar es Harb" does not deserve its prosperity and "Dar es Salam" deserves to take its rightful place of power on the world stage. Realistically, the only thing standing in the way of the recreation of the Caliphate is the United States and the force it can project to prevent this, and that's why Bin Laden believes it needs to be destroyed. One does not even have to stoop to Chomsky's level of vile intellectual dishonesty to make this point, Bin Laden's own words are very clear on this. 

"the pious Caliphate will start from Afghanistan"

This is Bin Laden's reason for 9/11, everything else from the Palestinian issue to Iraq, to Saudi Arabia is a pile on to garner him mainstream support, but his core ideology a, Shari'a governed Islamic Caliphate, is what motivates his backers, allies. and foot soldiers. 

Chomsky confidence that he understands everything that motivated Bin Laden, is more a projection of his own beliefs, ideology and motivations for wanting to see America destroyed than Bin Laden's motivations. Chomsky on September 11th is like someone who, upon hearing that Reagan was shot, immediately launches into a ten-minute tirade  about the Contras, Cuba, Palestine, Vietnam (etcetera), only to be told that was all about Jodie Foster.

His analysis, if that's what one could call this tripe, about Bin Laden also repeats the often told lie that Bin Laden was involved with the US during the 80's in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen were split into 6 different factions , three of which were hardliner Islamists : Islamic Party , Islamic society , Islamic Unity and three moderate factions : Islamic Revolutionary Movement , National Islamic Front , and National Liberation Front . None of these factions were led by Bin Laden and not all them were supplied by America, the hardliners were supplied by Pakistan , Egypt and Saudi Arabia . Don't believe it, look up Rober Fisk's interview with Bin Laden in 1988 where Bin Laden categorically denies that he took any assistance from the US during the Afghan Jihad. 

If you want to know who Bin Laden is read Michael Scheuer, if you want to know what drives him, read Daniel Pipes, and if you want a poor alternative for toilet paper read Chomsky. 
