I unintendedly wrote a very long review... here it is in short... if you like horror and pulp-fiction, stick to the first three books by Brian Lumley, which are actualy very good (Necroscope, Vamphiry, The Source). As for Blood brothers, if you are not a fan of the series I would advise to do something else with your time and money.

I have found this book to be the worst so far from the Necroscope series. The series had a great start with the book Necroscope, which is a unique blend of mystery and spy literature, horror and pulp-fiction which draws the reader from the first page (actually, I read that book in two days, I just couldn't stop reading it!).

The follow up, Vamphiry is a little less interesting but still has some of the excitement of the first one, with its unique way to put together such intense elements, adding serial killers in this one. So far so good.

The decline begins in the thrd book, where it becomes apparent the weak basis upon which the author has built his fiction. So far as it was "light" literature, it worked just fine. The problem is that in this book Brian Lumley begins to explore metaphisical, even theological subjects, and with the lack of a well rounded mythology to sustain him, he soon falls in common places, naive remarks and in some (the worst) cases, contradictions. It is apparent that the author does not have an equivalent to "The Silmarillion" of Tolkien, which is the core mythology that makes the whole Hobbit-Lord of the Rings series so "real".

In the following book, "Deadspawn" it gets so bad that at the end the necroscope has become some sort of semi-god (It even presents some paralelism with the resurrection of the Christ). However, the story is interesting enough to get you through the pages without much suffering, even though it requires a certain effort to ignore the frequent inconsistencies that come one after the other.

Finally, Blood Brothers. The inconsistencies get even deeper, the mesianism of the main characters is even more evident and, to top it all, it is BORING. Actually, this books seems to be only a long introduction to a new series, with a story that never gets a climax nor a conclusion. SO in this book, the series has lost everything, even structure and excitement. This is the last book I will read from Brian Lumeley in a long, long time measured only by the Moebius continuum
