What's remarkable is how much gall and bravado it takes to defend a failed economic perspective AFTER it's been tested and proven wrong. Bartley, of course, was one of the chief proponents of "supply-side" economics, an extreme right-wing attitude toward economic policy that had little to do with solid economics, or indeed economic theory at all, so much as an attitude toward government and capitalism.

Even Milton Freidman, who had many valid initial points about the constraints on growth resulting from excessive taxes and over-regulation, or the delayed effects of federal monetary policy, never went this far... and non-economists like Bartley and Laffer were pretty much alone in their claims about the "magic of the marketplace" generating increased revenues by lowering taxes.

The sad thing is that, even though serious economists never bought into or supported the "supply side" concept, it didn't really matter to cranks like Bartley: their purpose was superficial populism and public-opinion essays to drum up right-wing support. And, of course, that resulted in the great Reagan-era "experiment"--which was (let's not forget) an unqualified failure by any measure.

Bartley would like to pretend otherwise--understandably, since he was largely responsible for this era of economic catastrophe. But to claim with a straight face that the supply-side policies of the 80s resulted in faster growth is simply ludicrous. Supply-side tax cuts generated a hideous and unprecedented peacetime deficit, a loss of federal revenues, a widened gap between rich and poor, and _slower_ growth. These are indisputable facts. If anyone had suggested this experiment with a full awarenss of the inevitable consequences for our society, they would be condemned as inhumane sociopaths.

But like any crackpot, Bartley isn't impressed with mere facts. You can always tell a far-right crackpot by their willingness to ignore not only the knowledge of those who've actually made their careers studying the field (i.e., "that darn ol' academia"), but also the real-world results of their tested and failed policies.

Supply-side was a disastrously bad idea with no intellectual foundation (not even among monetarists of the Friedman/Chicago school). It proved to be a complete failure. That alone should be enough to ensure that no one ever listens to Bartley again, let alone takes seriously the idea that these policies should be tried again.

But like the Evil Dead, the old supply-side notions of "tax cuts for growth" have never died in the minds of the frenetic faithful at the Wall Street Journal. So we're still dealing with this idiocy today, long after a trial run should have discredited this foolishness once and for all
