I'm about to be a new parent and when I started buying stuff for my daughter, I figured I would turn to Consumer Reports to get some unbiased, properly tested ratings. I've spent way too much time on Amazon and eOpinions reading mixed and often conflicting reports on baby items. I saw this book in a magazine and thought, bingo! Just what I need. And a brand new version to boot!

Then today it arrived. It's hard to be objective when you're so utterly disappointed, but I'll try.

There are 368 pages total in the book. Of those 368 pages, there are a total of 141 ratings. Here are the categories included (along with how many product ratings you will find in each category):

Autos - 0 ratings *
Bottles/Nipples - 0 ratings
Baby Food - 0 ratings
Backpack Carriers - 4 ratings
Bathtubs - 0 ratings
Bicycle-mounted Child Seats & Trailers - 3 ratings kids helmets - 0 ratings for the chapter titled items
Bouncer Seats - 4 ratings
Breast Pumps - 0 ratings
Car Seats - 0 ratings **
Changing Tables & Dressers - 5 dressers, 5 armoires, 3 bookcases, 4 tv stands 
Clothing - 0 ratings
Cribs - 0 ratings
Crib Alternatives - 0 ratings
Crib Bedding - 0 ratings
Crib Mattresses - 0 ratings
Diapers - 7 ratings
Diaper Bags - 0 ratings
Diaper Pails - 0 ratings
Digital Cameras - 0 ratings
Formula - 0 ratings
Gates - 11 ratings
High Chairs - 19 ratings
Humidifiers - 0 ratings
Monitors - 10 audio, 3 video
Nursing Bras - 0 ratings
Pacifiers - 0 ratings
Play Yards - 8 ratings
Rocking Chairs & Gliders - 0 ratings
Shopping-cart Covers - 0 ratings
Soft Infant Carriers - 8 carriers, 4 slings
Stationary Activity Centers - 3 ratings
Strollers - 6 ratings, 8 jogging, 8 all terrain
Swings - 0 ratings
Thermometers - 8 ratings
Toys - 0 ratings (16 battery ratings)
Walkers - 4 ratings
Stuffed Animals - 0 ratings

* - to be fair, it does show which vehicles placed first in each category of automobile.

** - also to be fair, there is a story on CRs web site indicating that they withdrew their most recent car seat tests due to testing issues. It still would have been more useful to have older ratings than none at all.

So for useful items like Bottles, Bathtubs, Car Seats, Cribs and Swings? 0 ratings. Combined. For baby video monitors they don't include Summer Infant monitors, which here on Amazon are amongst the highest customer rated.

Two items which I have not purchased as of yet (bassinet and swing)no reviews, but simply said things like "Look for a swing that has a sturdy, stable frame". I'm glad I had someone to tell me that, I never would have known otherwise.

Personally I couldn't recommend this book to anyone. It tries to cover a somewhat broad range of topics and does none of them well enough to be worthwhile. Reading reviews on Amazon or eOpinions will give you better information on which products to buy or avoid than this book even attempts to do. If you disagree, I strongly urge you to at least take a trip to a bookstore and flip through it before making your decision
