_History on Trial:  My Day in Court with a Holocaust Denier_ by Holocaust historian Deborah Lipstadt is supposed to be an account of her experiences with the historian David Irving in court after being sued by him.  Let me begin by saying that I believe the Holocaust did occur and accept the "convergence of evidence" proof as the correct one.  However, what I hate to see is this tragic event used as a political weapon.  Professor Lipstadt wrote a book (_Denying the Holocaust_)  in which she basically lumped all far right and far left theorists in with Holocaust deniers.  Among others she included Noam Chomsky, Patrick Buchanan, revisionist historian Harry Elmer Barnes, and the Libertarian party (described by her as a "fringe group") in with Holocaust deniers.  She also called for these individuals to be publicly excoriated for their alleged denial and to face stiffer public penalties for doing so.  In this present book describing the trial, she also describes Mel Gibson (not his father mind you!) and Norman Finkelstein as potential deniers.  One of these "vipers" who she referred to as a denier was David Irving, an autodidact historian with a somewhat dubious history.  Many of Irving's historical claims are highly dubious and as this book shows in many points he is a denier.  However, the question remains as to whether Irving has a right to express these views in any forum at all.  I believe the answer to this question to be absolutely.  There are two reasons for this.  First, he may actually believe what he writes to be true, in which case he is merely describing historical events as he sees them.  And secondly, there is the freedom of speech issue.  Currently, Irving is in a prison in Europe after being arrested for publicly denying the Holocaust.  What the politically correct have failed to realize is that not only have they made a martyr out of Irving and his ilk, but they have re-inforced the conspiracist worldview that sees the government as largely controlled by totalitarian politically correct forces.  To put it simply, the tragedy of the Holocaust is being used as a means for political gain by the ultra-politically correct.  Judging from what I've read of the case, it appears that Professor Lipstadt went after Irving, calling for stiffer public penalties for Holocaust deniers, and leading a movement to drive them underground.  While Irving's behavior was certainly despicable (particularly as concerns his litigious record and his tendencies to publicly abuse survivors), after reading this book I cannot say that Professor Lipstadt's behavior was any less despicable.  In any event, Irving sued Lipstadt and her publishing company Penguin for libel in England claiming that they were part of a worldwide conspiracy to suppress the truth.  The rest of this book is a rather boring (actually) detailed account and debunking of Irving's historical theories in court.  Irving comes across as a charlatan who fiddles with historical records as he sees fit.  On the other hand, Lipstadt comes across as an incorrigible politically correct activist who sees anti-Semitism, racism, and prejudice everywhere.  Lipstadt spends a good part of this book defending her Jewishness, making side comments about her inner state and vapid appeals to emotion, and commenting on the alleged anti-Semitism in the various plays and books she sees and reads while involved in the trial.  One has to wonder after reading Lipstadt's book if there is such a thing as legitimate criticism of the Jews, if the Jews are not above criticism, and if all criticism of Jews, Jewish organizations, or Israel is anti-Semitism.  Nevertheless, I believe she has the right to publish her views in the same way that Irving has the right to publish his.  What is despicable though is that a courtroom was required to rule on a matter of history and to rule so far as to the correct historical interpretation.  Ultimately Irving was driven underground after having lost and was forced to pay the court fees driving him into bankruptcy.  Subsequently he was arrested in Austria for his denial and is currently serving a prison sentence.  The ultimate result of all of this is that while Lipstadt was vindicated and allowed to precede with the continued publication of her rather nauseous works (as is her right of course) it will lead to a situation where historians become afraid to take unpopular or controversial views on historical matters.  Revisionism is a legitimate enterprise and while Holocaust denial may be highly malignant, not all revisionism is denial.  It is likely that in the future this situation will present a slippery slope where mainstream historical interpretation comes to be enforced in the courts and stiff penalties exist for those historians who do not toe the line (shades of 1984).  While Lipstadt certainly has the right to publish her views and the case was likely decided correctly on that point, the ultimate result of the situation has been a despicable one on all sides
