i don't know why other dictionaries for this language don't exist.  but, honestly, i've found material that is probably better, for free online :)  .  i'll share it with everyone here.  on the other hand, i still think its ok to have a physical book for reference. here are my complaints, and observations.  the book was copyrighted in 1999.  conveniently, the other book which is typically suggested in a package with this, the main book which i wanted to buy and did, is the Handbook of Vlax Romani, by Ian Hancock.  It was copyrighted in 1995, and describes several standardized alphabets in use at the time.  the dictionary, however, says that there is no real standard codification of romani, and while this is kinda true in that there are many pidgin ways of writing which are used by different dialects, there definitely seems to be a couple of more or less "normalized" forms in use.  on one hand, it kinda uses a funny type of english-phoneticism, but i think if anyone is taking the time to learn romani, then they probably would rather see a more real form of alphabet.  at least that was my impression.  

here's the link to the online dictionary, romlex.  i think its quite useful, and it uses a type of pan-vlax alphabet, as far as i can tell, from what the Handbook describes.  this cross-translates many dialects into several languages, english included.  you can find erli here as well as many vlax dialects.

[...]

otherwise, i think that the book is cheap. i mean that in a decent sense, and maybe also as a negative. it does seem to draw upon the sliven dialect, which is interesting and i'm not sure how rare it is.  in addition it uses erli, which is the standard majority in bulgaria, from what i can understand.  

i'm not a rom, only interested. that's my two cents.  and i recommend the Handbook of Vlax Romani, sincerely. Its a grammar-analysis format, but in some ways i prefer this to an instructional book which treats students like children and then leaves out complete grammar issues. 

