Understanding Power is, without question, the most comprehensive and compelling presentation of Noam Chomsky's ideas.  Reading this book will change the way you see the world.  If you are interested in Chomsky, it is likely that you are a noble person who genuinely cares for others and yearns for a better world.  Beware, reader, and make sure you choose the right vehicle for your hope.  While his intentions are for a peaceful, safe, and healthy world, Chomsky's political writings systematically assume conscious malevolence without evidence, ignore context, and romanticize Third World struggles, regardless of their goals. 

Let's briefly examine some of his convictions on a pressing topic: the War on Terror.  Following the September 11th attacks, Chomsky immediately presented them as our fault: the result of U.S. Middle East policy, and equally evil U.S. Cold War efforts (training Mujahadeen to oust the Soviets from Afghanistan).  His presumption here is that if the United States changes its behavior, that terrorist attacks will then cease.  Islamic terrorists, in fact, want a pan-world government under Talibanesque repressive sharia law, a vision that mandates the overthrow of all free nations beginning with ours.  These facts are easily learned by reading about the historical development of Islamic radicalism, which is rooted in reinterpretations of the Qur'an's dictates for action, NOT in wishes to live peacefully in a U.S.-free Middle East.  These facts, however, do not enter into the Chomskyan world-view, which romanticizes Third World underdogs as brave and legitimized no matter what they stand for.  

The linguist also described the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan as a conscious "silent genocide," predicting wrongly that millions would be severed from food supplies.  As is typical, Chomsky here focused solely on the negative aspects of the situation, those for which the U.S. deserved his bitter recrimination.  For a man who lives prosperously in America and is supposedly the voice of the downtrodden, Chomsky certainly did not put himself into the shoes of the Afghan women.  For them, whose existence was akin to slavery, the liberation was a cause for great joy.  Actual sentiments were fully antithetical to Chomsky's condemnatory remarks to his villainous U.S. government, which he and he alone believed was consciously bent on killing as many innocent Afghans as possible.  Omitting what is significant (the liberation of people living under tyranny, in this case) to emphasize his often ludicrous misperceptions about American motives and motivations is a constant in Chomsky's writings.  His Cold War depictions are even more stunning, as Understanding Power's abundant examples attest.  

In the case that you are already entrenched in his manner of thinking, at least admit that Noam Chomsky MIGHT be wrong, and see if his positions hold up under review: read Chomsky's articulate, sane critics.  If he is perfect, then you have nothing but gain to acheive from this exercise; it will only serve to strengthen your ability to effectively argue and implement Chomsky's ideas in the world.  After clear-eyed reassessment of his political writings, if you STILL think he's on-point, then all the best to you.  If, however, you reevaluate his "wisdom," you will have saved yourself from much needless confusion and despair.  

Were Chomsky's views simply false, there would not be need for this posting.  They become perilous, however, in their blind, wholesale demonization of the United States.  Chomsky's own fear and anger about the state of our world are projected, with great urgency: anger at and fear of U.S. "elites" is the Chomsky program.  The result is often flat-out hatred.  What would Chomsky do were he President?  We do not know; he avoids that inconvenient question by telling us that were he to run (which he admits he would never do), the first thing he would do is tell us not to vote for him.  Furthermore, why does Professor Chomsky not include himself in the "elites" so prominent in his analyses?  Does he not pay taxes, and drive a BMW, and teach at a cushy, prestigious university?  The questions may seem too simplistic, but they point to a core issue: if Chomsky cannot look into the mirror regarding his own status and societal position, then how much more impaired must his assessments be of things outside of himself?  On paper, it is unclear exactly what Chomsky IS calling for, and putting aside the constant onslaught of judgment-filled writings and audio programs, neither does his life provide us an example of what he conceives to be right-action.  Those who want an idea of who believes IN Chomsky, however, need look no further than Hugo Chavez, who recently proclaimed allegiance and military support to his "brother" Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.  Ahmadinejad, for anyone who needs reminding, daily denies the Holocaust, and calls for the destruction of Israel and the United States.  Is it a coincidence that those who love Chomsky also embrace a world-view rooted in blame, anger, and vilification?  

Good and evil do exist in this world, but Noam Chomsky is not capable of distinguishing between the two.  The U.S.A. is not perfect, and never will be.  Nevertheless, if we fail to recognize the good that IS here, we may soon lose our nation.  Chomsky's writings are little more than a good reminder that appearance is not essence.  It is worth noting as well, that Chomsky is an avowed atheist, and believes that life is meaningless.  If we bear in mind that evil is in the eye of the beholder, then Chomsky--an American, an Israelite, a millionaire--is instantly unmasked in all of his self-revulsion.  Understanding Power should be retitled as "Understanding Blame."  Stear clear and take heart, reader; there is hope in this world, and your country is good, but you will discover neither in Avram Noam Chomsky. 
