In an effort to better understand the current market in Christian publishing, I picked up a copy of _Presumed Guilty_. The story, as revealed in the book jacket, appeared to push the envelope for Christian fiction, so I bit.

At about seventy pages, I nearly put the book down. And I never give up on books, no matter how bad.

Much has been said about the state of Christian fiction today. A call has gone out to make stories "grittier"; if Bell's book is indicative, grittiness has been achieved. But writing stories that push the limits of tawdriness can't spell success in itself. Bell's story of a pastor's dalliance with a pornstar and the fallout from that indiscretion is about as sleazy as it gets without being clinical in detail or overtly titillating. Christian publishers still have a standard to meet.

What makes a story successful is strong characterization, a believability that makes it possible for the reader to identify with the characters, a well-told tale, and in Christian fiction, a greater understanding of the world God has given us. Most of all, the quality of writing--word choices, phrasing, etc.--must be high. Those elements make or break a story. Sadly, they broke _Presumed Guilty_. 

Reader identification--on any level--simply vanishes in this story. We see plenty of reactions to events that swirl around Pastor Ron Hamilton, his wife Dallas, and their two adult children, but most readers will need to ignore understanding any of their motivations. The characters reacted to countless events around them, but most normal people would have gone a different direction and had better reasons for doing so.

Despite the nature of the story, the characters suffer from a generic Christianity written to appeal to the broadest swath of Christian belief. This problem plagues most Christian fiction today. Again, push too hard and readers will complain if Christian characters aren't "Christian" enough. In _Presumed Guilty_, the wife, knowing she's neglected the intimate part of her marriage, tries to woo her husband back by slipping into a pair of tight jeans and pouring a couple glasses of sparkling apple cider. No slinky lingerie? No champagne? Bell has her husband out in a motel room with a pornstar, but he can't push the boundaries on how he writes that Christian wife back home.

This is a common problem. It offers a plastic Christianity that has no place for Christians to be...well, real people. The underlying message is that you can't be a Christian and drink wine or wear lingerie, even if solidly orthodox Christians in the real world do such things. Such is the nature of the market right now.

Characterization issues aren't the only problem. The story here borders on fantasy. Deus ex machina elements abound, especially in the sub-plot about the son. Also, key bad guys soften a little too easily. As for the ending, it's about as contrived as can be. Nor was I a fan of the general writing. Bell's descriptions are simplistic, his writing chokes on repetitive "subject/verb/predicate" constructions, and he commits the unpardonable sin of loading this book with the verb "is" and all its tenses. Good writing? Hardly.

The book saves itself from a one-star review on Bell's ability to juggle a complex set of story elements. A lesser author would have struggled to keep all the plates spinning, but Bell wraps up every plot point and leaves no dangling issues. For readers who hate to see sub-plots up and blow away, that's refreshing.

A fair book. It definitely pushed the boundaries of what stories are tellable in Christian fiction, even if it fails to give us characters who are indicative of other streams of thought and action within the broader base of Christianity. I'm a bit tired of seeing the same 2-D Christian characters and their predictable moral responses to life, even when that life is spinning madly out of control as in _Presumed Guilty_. If Christian authors do better in this regard, perhaps the readership will not only get better books, but a wider perspective on the Christian life and how to live it
