I would not personally recommend this book to horror/thriller fans.  I would definitely not recommend this book for anyone under 18!  If you like soap operas, you may enjoy this book a lot.  If you are searching for the secrets of Rose Red or a good ghost story, this is not your book.

I read the story before the author was made known.  I thought it might be Stephen King or Tabitha King.  The writing style was far below Stephen King's style and it was very erotic, which I suspected Tabitha King to be the author.  However, the accounts of Ellen were obviously written by a man, as the erotic episodes were definitely not from the viewpoint of a woman.  So, it was no surprise when the author was neither Stephen nor Tabitha, but a male author I have never heard of.

The book reveals almost nothing new about Rose Red and it's secrets.  I would dare say that 90% of the diary goes on and on about Ellen and John's wealth and extremely dysfunctional marriage.  On and on about John's extramarital affairs, Ellen's withholding of sexual favors, more affairs, more withholding of favors, more affairs, more favors withheld.  The story is a vicious circle regarding this.  It's almost like she gets burned, but yet continues to play with fire.  Very frustrating and almost boring, as you read the same scenarios redundantly.  By the third time, you know exactly what he's doing and how she will retaliate.  Silly.

I mentioned above that the Diary of Ellem Rimbauer revealed no new secrets of the house.  In fact, as the diary progresses, it skips four occurrences (it made mention of the four, like "by the way, four disappearances happened since last time I wrote, but I won't tell you about them").  And this I found obnoxious - ***SPOILER ALERT***  Ellen waits some three or so years for a sance from a master uber-psychic.  Three long years.  But after the sance, nothing is revealed!   The book is riddled with episodes like this.  Some big secret is coming.  When it finally is revealed, it's no secret at all.  It's something dumb, like "yes, there are spirits in the house".  What spirits?  Why?  Who?  Nothing is ever satisfactorily explained.

I would have given it one star, however it seemed to have a single quality.  At the start of the diary, Ellen was an ordinary 19 year old fiance to John.  Soon, she is corrupted by John, wealth, maybe corrupted by her African best friend (jury is still out), and hatred.  She prays to God, but also to "her other god" (the dark one).  At first, you suppose she is playing with fire.  Right on.  She gets consumed by darkness, revenge, and hatred and falls into self destruction.  

Overall, I personally thought it read like fan fiction.  I would bet the author whipped up this short story just for giggles, but somehow it got published.  I was disappointed, hoping for a good ghost story.  But I ended up reading a soft-porn, soap opera style plot.

Hope I don't offend those who loved the book :
