Standard Heinlein Disclaimer: Heinlein is a frequently-polarizing figure in American literature. The people who dislike his work (e.g., A. Panshin) seem to *really* dislike his work, and often for reasons that seem to me spurious. The people who like his work are in many cases blind or too forgiving of Heinlein's problems as a writer. I like Heinlein's work quite a bit, and find all but two of his novels consistently enjoyable, but I would not rate any but one or possibly two of his books as being the "best of the SF genre." They are for me, however, always enjoyable, and that is no small thing to find in an author. 

And as you may have guessed, this is one of the two.  (The other is "Rocketship Galileo" which, in my opinion, only suffers from the mistakes of a person new to writing novels, and a hoary "Nazis on the Moon!" plotline that, to put it mildly, has not worn well with time.)  The story behind this book is, apparently, that Heinlein was ill as he was finishing it, and it was published without the traditional editing cycle that he usually employed.

Could be.  Frankly, it's hard for me to imagine editing making this novel more readable.  This is a relatively interesting idea (a man's brain transplanted into a woman's body), but as many others have pointed out, the execution is poor.  Frankly, there's not much story here at all, aside from a man exploring what it's like being in a woman's body.  But the exploration is by turns dull and absurd.  Man in woman's body has many sexual flings!  Man in woman's body poses nude for a painter!  Man in woman's body cooks dinner for widower husband!  Man in woman's body finds that piano lessons he took as a boy are now useless, but he can run secretarial equipment!  The thrills never stop.

There are any number of other irritating things about this book (personally, I find being forced to try to pronounce "Joan" as "Joanne" really irritating, but that's probably just me [If you want it pronounced "Joanne", spell it that way, Bob!]), but I'll let you read the other reviews.  The summation is, for this lover of Heinlein, who has read almost everything he wrote, I can't reread this novel.  And for me, folks, that's really saying something
