I think this book, similar to Dr. Liker's The Toyota Way, misleads the reader into believing that if the reader employs these principles and programs, that their enterprise/business will be successful like Toyota.  Why? The authors fail to inform the reader that Toyota, at least in the Georgetown plant, where I am and have been employeed for many years, uses temporary employees extensively to produce the Camry, Avalon, and Solara.  By extensively I mean temporary employees who remain employed from 3 to 4 to 5 years on the production line alongside regular team members.  The advantage to Toyota is the temps are paid approx. $10 per hour less; receive no health benefits from Toyota; are entitled to 4 vacation days per year; have abolutely no guarantee from Toyota of permanent employment ( Toyota does occasionally hire some of these people after exploiting their service for 3,4, or 5 yrs.); receive no pension; earn no bonus or performance award, etc....Folks I could go on & on with how these temporary employees are exploited for Toyota's financial gain.  Neither Dr. Liker or David Meier tell the reader that this practice of using temporary employees is a fundamental key to controlling cost, particularly labor costs.  What Toyota sacrifices in exchange for the financial gain is quality.  In the past 5 years no Georgetown Toyota produced vehicle has earned a J.D. Power Gold Award.  Why?  Because Toyota in Georgetown (TMMK) does not completely follow the standards/principles in this fieldbook or The Toyota Way.  I say buyer beware because if you as the reader opt to adapt your business to the guidelines in this book, you will be successful, but it will cost you more that it does Toyota.  I firmly believe in the 14 principles outlined in Liker's The Toyota Way and I believe in the guidelines in this fieldbook.  I work at TMMK and I've seen the successes gained many years ago when TPS was being taught to new hires when were under Japanese management. Today , as we have for the past 5 years, have an American manager, Gary Convis, formerly with GM.  I'm simply stating that these authors fail to tell the reader that many of Toyota's recent financial successes is derived by deviating from TPS by using non-permanent Team Members who loyalties are subject to question.  Afterall, why should a temporary employee provide 100% effort to Toyota if Toyota will not promise them a job or share in the profits through performance awards and/or bonuses?  One of the points brought up in this book is that David Meier used to be a Group Leader at TMMK. Indeed he was; he was one of the first hired. He remembers how TMMK produced quality vehicles which earned numerous vehicle and plant Gold awards from J.D. Power before the use of temps on a long term basis.  In those days, temps were utilized to cover for summer vacations and medical leaves, but only temporarily, not long term as they are now.  Permanent Team Members went through an extensive screening process to ensure Toyota was comfortable with their skills to be such that they could be molded to TPS requirements.  Those hired were offered and earned full benefits from day one.  These temps today are not screened as extensively and are not compensated accordingly.  Why Doesn't Mr. Meier inform the reader of these facts?  Why?  It all boils down to credibility.  In my opinion, this book is not credible in terms of conveying to the reader the way Toyota really conducts business.  I say, buyer beware. One of the concerns I have is that David Meier reviewed Dr. Liker's The Toyta Way last year and failed to qualify that review by informing the reader that he was working with Dr. Like on this book.  Credibilty is everything; just ask Oprah or Mr. Frey. 
