I started this book with anticipation and the further I went the more disappointed I became.  Whybrow makes an interesting arguement that Americans are slamming up against limits they refuse to recognize - biological limits like how much change the mind and body can absorb.  He calls this the Fast Society and his argument builds upon earlier historians who noted the psychological effect of the closing of the frontier in the 1870's.  

Whybrow's primary hypothesis, however, is that there is something GENETICALLY special about Americans because we are descended from restless people.  He traces both innovation (good) and inability to handle limits (bad) to this genetic material.

There are two big problems with this thesis:  First, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Australia, and Canada are all immigrant societies, too.  For Whybrow's hypothesis to hold, they must also manifest these traits - irrespective of their political and social institutions.  Whybrow does not think to ask.  

Second, Whybrow quotes deTocqueville's Democracy in America at least three dozen times in defence of the special (genetically based) character of Americans.  Yet deTocqueville's most passionate (and perhaps famous) chapter compares the people living on both sides of the Ohio River, in Ohio and Kentucky.  Tocqueville notes that these are ethnically the very same people - often closely related, yet the two societies differed drastically with respect to innovation, industriousness, independence and initiative.  He was disturbed by the slovenly habits of Kentuckians, their disdain for work, their lack of initiative or enterprise.  

From this observation, deTocqueville argued that slave-owning was profoundly enervating and corrupting, even of the vast majority who owned no slaves.  That Ohio and other parts of America owed their creativity and restless energy to democracy itself - and that the slave-owning south was not completely democratic, but stunted.

This is one of DeTocqueville's most famous arguments and it directly contradicts Whybrow's hypothesis.  Whybrow never confronts this.  After awhile I started to wonder if he really had read DeTocqueville, or whether some graduate student was supplying him with quotes.  

Finally, Whybrow appears unfamiliar with previous (famous) critics of the soul-destroying aspects of American society - Whyte's Organization Man and Roszak's Where the Wasteland Ends come to mind.   
