	The novel, A Tale of Two Cities, by Charles Dickens, is a story of love and compassion, which takes place during the beginnings of the French Revolution. Despite the fact that many aspects of the revolution are portrayed well in the novel, the book is still a tiring read and requires a strong liking for Dickens' writing style.

	Throughout the novel, Dickens bogs the story down with excessive descriptions and meaningless scenes. The language is relatively simple and easy to comprehend, but the extra descriptions make the novel difficult to fully understand. Most of the characters in the novel are completely unrealistic, which makes it difficult for the reader to relate to what is going on. The character of Lucie Manette, is portrayed as the perfect women with absolutely no flaws. Her character is the supposed epitome for women, but in truth, is highly improbable. Throughout the novel, Dickens' does a great job at keeping the story dry and unentertaining, giving little to no excitement to cause the reader to want to continue. Despite these countless imperfections, Dickens' does manage to be partially successful in his quest to portray the revolution.

	The book, with all its shortcomings, did reveal to the reader, the atrocities that occurred during the French Revolution, and the events that led to it. The abuse of the nobles, and the radical ideas of the revolutionists are all shown in many parts of the novel. The one other aspect that Dickens got right in his novel was the character of Sydney Carton. Sydney Carton is the only character in the story that many readers can relate too and understand a variation of what Carton feels. Carton is a lawyer who feels that everything he has done in his life has been wrong and believes that he can do no good in life. This characteristic is common among people, and Dickens manages to capture that aspect of humanity precisely. 

	The novel, A Tale of Two Cities, is a slow moving book with numerous flaws that cause the reader to lose interest fairly often. Dickens' overuse of description and unrealistic characters add to the book's dryness. However, Dickens does capture a time in history with great accuracy. This is a book for a reader who likes Dickens' overzealous descriptions and enjoys slow moving stories.
