I found this effort weak and even irritating on several levels.  I'll start general and get more specific.  

First of all, the reading (and writing style) is of the worst kind of condescending pedantry.  Arrien reads like she's a bored, old-style Catholic school nun lecturing a 3rd grader for being unchaste, yet coming off as self-consciously new-age at the same time.  And there are fingernail-chalkboard constructions in the writing that will grate on you after five minutes.  It's that horrible lecture/sermon style of paralellisms wherein the writer, in an effort to reinforce a point, starts each statement the same way and ends it differently.  I'll give you an example to illustrate, I'll give you an example to explicate, I'll give you an example to show how bad this thing is, I'll give you an example to start making you frantic, I'll give you an example to cause you to drive your car into a bridge piling just to shut her up.  This one construction occupies what seems to be at least 10% of the content of this thing.  And she delivers each one exactly parallel, in the same tired, dogmatic lecturing style all the way through each disc.  It's really irritating after about 10 minutes.

Second, and a bigger deal, Arrien claims to be an anthropologist.  Her whole premise in this work, "the eight gates", is based on what she wants us to believe is a body of universal wisdom known by (all?) primitive peoples that, once understood, will open the door to enlightenment for humble westerners like you and me.  Basically, it's the notion of "the noble savage", a very romantic and false construct that has never held up under any scrutiny (I accept that some indigenous societies have ways of looking at the world that make more sense to me than others).  But no actual anthropologist worth paying any attention to would ever say things like "indigenous peoples believe", without naming anyone in particular and then go on to make some sweeping generalization that has no foundation in fact (none of what she says would make any sense at all to any indigenous society known to me).  Her illustrations are total nonsense.  I am married to an anthropologist for 22 years and know dozens of them and frequently discuss these issues.  These notions are pure drivel of the "native peoples are necessarily pure, being unencumbered by the corruption of our decadent society, and therefore somehow infinitely wise" variety and, worse, just plain fabrications.  It's ridiculous and laughable and an offense to anthropology, or any social science, for that matter.  She should be ashamed of herself for pretending to be something she is not (I don't care if she claims to be trained in the discipline; her words speak otherwise).  

The only reason that I'm giving this two stars is that she's obviously well-intended and wants to be helpful (I'm assuming).  Otherwise it would get one.  Don't waste your time with this one
