Books comparing rival theological systems should primarily be about translating across schemes. This is what people want in reading these kinds of books. They are in one view and they want to understand the other view. To effectively meet this end, one has to be familiar with both sides, that is, one has to know how to speak the language of the other guy.

Unfortunately this isn't accomplished.  While the two Orthodox writers give a basic overview of Orthodox teaching, they fail in two basic ways. First, they fail to grasp the language and system of their Protestant interlocutors and therefore do not adequately address their objections. They show a very superficial understanding of Reformation theology. Second, they fail to get to the heart of the differences which lie in Trintarian theology, Christology and theological method. A much more effective exposition and hence argument could have been made.  

The Protestant participants suffer from the same kinds of problems plus others. The baptist contributor forcuses on abuses mainly in the Russian jurisdiction. This is hardly a fair tactic, for the abuses, theological, moral or administrative are anecdotal, that is, they are limited to his experience. Second, considering that the Russian Church was practically exterminated by the Soviets, it is understandable if its laity/clergy who were prohibited from learning the Bible or going to seminary are ignorant of basic Christian teaching and moral praxis.  In fact the baptist contributor ultimately confesses ignorance as to what the real issues are between Reformation and Orthodox soteriology, indicating that he shouldn't even be a participant.

Horton's contribution is better but suffers from the same general failure to grasp the theological system and langauge of the people on the other side, and thereby mount and effective critique.  Granted that the Orthodox representatives failed to give an adequate articulation of the Orthodox view of justifiction, it certainly wouldn't have been hard to find one. There are a number of such articles readily available in Orthodox scholarly journals. (See for example, Church and Justification. An Orthodox Approach to the Issue of Justification and Collective Faith, The Greek Orthodox Theological Review 28 (1983)). And Horton follows his usual modus operandi of tarring people with positions that they do not affirm. For example because he isn't familiar with understand the Orthodox teaching on faith, he simply denotes it as the same teaching as Roman Catholicism, specifically the idea of "implicit faith." Horton makes this kind of move on a number of occasions, reducing Orthodox teaching to Catholic teaching to make it easier to criticize. In point of fact though, the Orthodox while having some superficial similarities to Catholicism, understand things differently because they have a different Trinitarian theology, Christology, soteriology and anthropology. Horton shows nothing more than a superficial understanding of Orthodox theology because he simply hasn't done any substantial reading in it, as is evidenced in his use of only a few fairly popular sources and his constant inability to draw the appropriate conclusions. 

If you are coming from an Evangelical/Reformation background and you want to understand Orthodox teaching from the inside out, below are some works that will save you time and money in the long run.

An abosolute must is Joseph Farrell's Free Choice in St. Maximus the Confessor, which is an analysis of Maximus' theology and ends with a comparison with Augustinianism. Hard to find, but well worth it. Maximus is a central theological figure for Orthodox theology. Just as it is not possible to understand western theology apart from Augustine, so it is not possible to understand Eastern theology apart from Maximus.

Farrell's translations of the Disputation with Pyrrus and Photius' Mystagogy of the Holy Spirit are short, inexpensive and packed with information. Farrell knows how to translate ideas and spell out the conceptual connections.

John Romanides, Ancestral Sin, is a helpful exposition of the Orthodox teaching on anthropology, and the Fall and a critique of western conceptions.

John Meyendorff's Christ in Eastern Christian Thought, is also a must to understand the centrality of Christology to Orthodox theology and how the Orthodox understand Christology.

Meyendoff's, Salvation in Christ: Lutheran-Orthodox dialog, is also helpful, though somewhat overly optomistic.

Michel Barnes, The Power of God, and David Bradshaw's, Aristotle East and West are both vergy good works and should be read together-Barnes first, then Bradshaw.

Richard Haugh's Photios and the Carolingians: The Trinitarian Contoversy, is short but very helpful.

Henri Crouzel's Origen. Origen is one of the most important figures in Christian theology, for he is the source of most of the debates in Christology and Trinitarian theology in the first millenium of the church.

While not Orthodox, other helpful works are, Arvin Vos, Aquinas, Calvin and Contemporary Protestant Thought, and, Harry McSorely's Luther: Right or Wrong, Rupert Davies, The Problem of Authority in the Continental Reformers
