My wife gave me this jumbled collection of stereotypes and cliches to read because she thought its heroine eerily reminded her of a long ago mutual friend.
   The heroine or author's alter-ego I guess met every single expectation I had for the second, indeed third rate chick lit it turned out to be.
This plows the same tired soil as Nora Ephron (who at least can be funny at times). It proves the old contention that indeed there is no such thing as being almost pregnant,
In this case, funny,. Heronie Sandra Berlin is niether witty nor much to like our friend;. she is an self-absorbed intellectual phoney masquerading as a wounded young woman editor dumped by her wasp god boyffriend trying vainly to reconstruct her life after the cad shows his true colors, red, white and blue.
(Do we see the teeth of an upper west side Eleanor Roosevelt  swooning liberal booklicker showing  here?)
  Anyway suffice to say the Sandy Berlin character might have registered to the reality of memory of our old real friend had she and her multitude of dilemmas not exhibited every single stereotypical takes on the 80s by the Union of Soviet Socialistic Reblic of Zabars: There are girls up that way who actually are interesting and made of real flesh.
   1. Sandy is self-hating Jewish and comes from the semi-priveldeged tatterdown edge of a tony NY suburb called Greenhills.
(Read Scarsdale where they  manufacture young media wannabees like so many potato latkes). her mother is of course a profession woman, her father predictively indifferent and usually buried in a book.
  2.Her picture of the wasp world of her kiddie boyfriend reeks of condescending snobbery at their affinity for Afghans, booze, sailing, and apparent paucity of intellectual curiousity and suggests, heaven forefend that  the Roosevelt lady (who never had an original thought in her entire well meaning public life) was a saint.
  3.The best friend confidante role is played by a gay man, also a cardboard cutout, who of course, parties constantly and pays the price by contracting AIDS. he is often referred to by Sandra by his last name in that smarmy phoney inside way that reeks of private high school girls locker room talk.
   Every plot turn is contrived (was she writing for a screen option? maybe since most of the developmment executives in many studios tend also to be media phoney refugees from Scarsdale High as well. it probably worked).
  IIf you want real live chick lit fun that even men would love try Sophie Kinsella's "Shopaholic" books. Her gal,
Becky Bloomwood is a) genuinely funny  b) wildly original
c)self absorbed in an absolutely lovable, seductive way
and her plot twists, nutty as they are engage you from first to last.. By contrast, i couldn't care less about the ever whiny Sandra Berlin.
  I understand this author is a food writer and I can see that being immersed in the media world, anywhere, can lead to book contracts if you lick enough plates at Orso's, or Le Bec
Fin or wherever else these people hung out in the 80s..
  

 
 
