I read this on the strength of Burgess' excellent bio of Joyce, RE: JOYCE, and I was rather disappointed. Yes, it includes some valuable historical background, but the sections on Shakespeare's life were speculative at best, and at worst factually wrong. For example, he writes:

"I feel that in the last years Shakespeare took music more seriously that he had been able to in his working days. . . . I see, or rather hear, the Shakespeare family sitting around the table in the drawing room of New Place, with one of those madrigal scores open before them. . . . Susanna, I think, was a clear soprano, a clever sight-reader. Judith had not much of a voice and was so slow at picking up a part that she became a dumb listener. Hall, the son-in-law, was a bass. Anne was a grave contralto. Will was certainly a tenor." (252)

Entertaining perhaps. But based on what historical evidence? None. Pure speculation. Unfortunately, such passages are all too typical. 

More seriously, Burgess perpetuates several myths about Shakespeare that have been completely discredited. Burgess claims that Shakespeare's father was a Puritan (20). In fact, documentary evidence has proved that his father was a Catholic. Burgess claims that "Ann Whateley of Temple Grafton" was a real person, when it is well-established that this is a scribal error for Anne Hathaway, Shakespeare's wife (57). Burgess also repeats the myth that Anne Hathaway was an "spinster" (at 26!), desperate to get married, who tricked Shakespeare into getting married by getting herself pregnant by him (57-8). Again, where's the evidence? Burgess presents the allegations of the "Baines libel" about Marlowe as historical fact (101), when Baines and Kyd had reasons of self-interest to repeat and exaggerate the rumors swirling around Marlowe, after he died and was unable to defend himself. Burgess also perpetuates the myth that Shakespeare wrote "his plays straight off, without drafts." In fact, the several, quite different, published versions of his plays may well represent different drafts. And the long playscripts of the folio must have been abridged for performance, probably by Shakespeare himself. 

The student who reads Burgess's biography is in danger of making a fool out of him or herself by repeating these out-dated Shakespeare myths. There are better alternatives, especially Park Honan's excellent bio, or Stephen Greenblatt's recent WILL IN THE WORLD
