RC Sproul Jr. makes a compelling argument as to why Christian parents should homeschool their children.  His primary text is Deuteronomy 6 where God commands His people to teach His Law to their children.  Certainly the best place to teach, train, and raise godly children is in the home.  Parents aren't competing with  "the world" and children aren't confused by the two drastically different approaches to the way they see things and the way they are called to live.  I totally buy that.

What I do not appreciate is how simplistic Mr. Sproul Jr. can be when it comes to the "how" of homeschooling.  I understand that this is not the main focus of his book.  Certainly he is more interested in telling us why it is important.  However, I cannot sit back and accept ideas like the only textbook you really need is a Bible.  He says things along these lines over and over and over again, making his point that we need to be teaching our children the Faith and that this must be their primary curricula from which all others stem.  And yet, he downplays all other subjects as though they were an aside.

We are commanded by God to value the life of the mind and to love Him with all of our minds.  One way, perhaps even the primary way we do this is by learning and not only about the Lord.  The "how" is more than a conversation.  Yes, school is all of life.  He makes this big case for that and then stuffs in a line or two here and there that his kids do learn math and receive "formal" schooling.

I guess my biggest problem is the writing style.  Sproul rambles, like he's having a conversation with himself.  I think this leads to a lack of clarity and makes his book difficult to follow.  While his main point is the "why" of homeschooling, he often tacks on several points on the "how" that made me quite frustrated in attempting to follow his argument.

All in all, I don't really recommend this book.  I would recommend instead _Recovering the Lost Tools of Learning_ by Doug Wilson instead
