Had this been a paper written by a graduate student in Political Science, it would have gotten something like a B-. Much like other reviewers have said, the book paints a cartoonish picture of, you know... foreign people, who apparently have all the negative features one could imagine, form being violent to gladly subjecting themselves to the rule of the czar, as opposed to good ol' "Westerners" who are independent, hard-working, law-abiding, individualistic, etc, etc. He does not say it directly, but you can discern that when he says Westerners he doesn't really mean Italians or Portuguese - he means white Anglo-Saxon protestants. 

Leaving aside the racist/eugenicist air that comes out of almost every page of this book (btw, what do you do with mixed race people?), I take issue mainly with the methodology of the work. If you are a student of Political Science looking for a serious discussion of a theory of international conflict you will not find it here. In a country where the Current Affairs section of bookshops is full of retarded titles like "How Republicans Stole Christmas" or "How To Talk To a Liberal. If You Have To", prof Huntington knows where success lies. His book fits comfortably among these these type of works but causes giggles among real academics. 

When discussing the causes and mechanisms of international conflict, scholars generally employ some sort of statistical analysis, if only to confirm a qualitative discussion. There exists a database named Correlates of War on which the serious researcher can do all sorts of regression analyzes and find out whether this or that factor plays a causal role in war. Of course this bores the hell out of the typical "How Republicans Stole Christmas" reader, so Huntington prefers laying out arguments on the lines of (caricatural paraphrase) "Since 33% of wars involve Muslims, it is obvious that Muslims are bloody." I have not researched this matter, but from what I've heard, people have run basic regression analyzes on his theory and shattered it to pieces. 

Most of the ideas he lays out are not supported even by this type of proof. For the most part, he just posits stuff. The Vietnamese are a second-hand miniature copy of the Chinese "core civilization". Romanians are some sort of Russians and they volunteered to fight along the Serbs against the Croats.(!) Of course, all of these claims are delusional and they fit the image of the ignorant American who can't point Louisiana on the map. Unfortunately, these types of people sometimes get to influence US policy and periodically get this country in all sorts of trouble.  Overall, I honestly believe that George W Bush has a much better understanding of international affairs than Samuel Huntington, and that is saying something
