I chose this book quickly before a business trip thinking from the title that it was going to be an engineering-style analysis of various bad ideas that held sway for a long time despite being clearly wrong.  Just reading the back of the book, though, makes it clear that this book is about modern policies that the author disagrees with.  

It's so one-sided that it could only be enjoyed by someone looking for selected facts to support regressive political positions.  Counter arguments are almost never addressed.  The book takes a self-righteous tone that gets tiresome after a while.  

Some of the points she makes seem out-and-out wrong:

1) She frequently refers to people she disagrees with as "elites".  Often these are the people who at least claim to be trying to do something to help the neediest members of society.  It seems to me that the "elites" would be the people who don't need any help whatsoever. 
2) She describes a law student who was brought to tears when she was exposed to racism against her for the first time.  No one should have to deal with racism, but it strikes me as funny that one incident of racism in someone's life is worthy to write about in a book.  I've heard there are other aspects to law school that are more grueling than being exposed to racism one time.
3) Often times it seems like the author's arguments are meant to appeal to the reader's envy.  She is reminding people that wasteful projects to help the needy are costing people who aren't needy.  Isn't the more important issue that resources are being wasted that could have helped more needy people?  Not for the author.

I try to ask myself how I would react if the book were equally one-sided and superficial but put forward ideas that I personally agreed with.  After all, I have enjoyed reading through Michael Moore's books which are even less balanced and intellectual than this book.  Why do I like Moore's books more?  Maybe it's because he has fun with the ideas; I'm not sure.

I cannot recommend this book except to someone who already agrees with regressive politics and wants some easy reading. 
