Rarely have I felt ripped off after reading a book, but Konstantinos managed to make me feel that way.

What he offers in this book is a pseudo-scientific approach to the topic of vampires, one that reads like a high school paper that I doubt would garner a C.

He starts off by redefining the term vampire, one that in common parlance refers to an immortal blood drinker who can't face the sunlight or get destroyed, to include mortals who drink blood. I don't know about you, but as for me, a human who drinks blood is someone who I would not label as "vampire" but as "in need of some professional counselling." 

Later he presents letters from what he describes as "possible vampires". Several of those letters are from individuals who profess to being mortal, eating (yes, garlic too), and only having a spoonful of blood occasionally because 'they need it'. When a letter like this comes from what sounds like a deeply disturbed teen then I wouldn't present it as "a letter from a possible vampire", but toss it in the recycle bin. When a person presents himself in one of those letters as being a vampire and in the next breath claim not to experience any harm from sunlight, and seeing his reflection in the mirror, and not needing blood to survive--you'd say Konstantinos would have had the common sense to not include a letter like that, but no. 

So, those letters offer as far as I am concerned nothing that indicates that vampires actually exist, and everything that indicates that some people responded to Konstantinos's add, one that requested vampires to send letters to him and tell about themselves, in order to have some fun and see if they could fool Konstantinos. Maybe they fooled him, or maybe it was Konstantinos who fooled us, the readers. I am inclined to believe that the first is possible since his entire presentation has "immature" all over it. Then again, the possibility exists that he simply saw a way to make an easy buck. Regardless of whether or not Konstantinos was sincere in his attempt to proof that vampires exist, in my eyes he failed thoroughly and lost all credibility in the process. I'll make certain to stay away from his other books. 
