"Mao had done 2 things that mattered, he said. He had battled Chiang Kaishek for years and finally chased him off to that little island of Taiwan. And in the long war of resistance he had asked the Japanese to return to their ancestral home and had fought his way into the Forbidden City." Mao also (once he had the influence to do so) helped old acquaintances get local party jobs and was a writer of sorts, as well as an avid reader (of what God only knows as he obviously didn't seem to learn much from all the supposedly scholarly books he is said to have consumed). Mao's writings, however, left much to be desired, even in Mao's own opinion. When Stalin asked him in 1950 which of Mao's writings ought be published in Russia Mao demurred, responding that his works published by local publishing houses in China contained "a mass of errors and misrepresentations" & needed further review first. Stalin was no great theorist either, of course, but it seems that the author of this book has swallowed a helping of Stalin's own progranda regarding such issues. Hence Stalin not only gets most of the credit for supporting Chinese Communists (through the Soviet controlled Communist International), but is further credited with being a "founding father of the Soviet Revolution" (notwithstanding this to be a gross exaggeration on 2 fronts: 1---that he wasn't that involved & 2---that it was no revolution even, but a coup d'etat actually). And while Stalin's early collectivization drive did cause "widespread suffering" in the author's characterization he seems to think that the reason for this was that "many officials moved to fast." Interestingly, this is the only (albeit indirect) mention by the author of Stalin's self-inflicted famine while the author pointedly relates how Mao's version (particularly between 1960-61) cost at least 20 million lives. And last, but not least, the author informs us that Stalin was "the guide and inspiration to his people in the terrible years of the German invasion." You get the point now? On other "fronts:" The Korean War was induced by Stalin & wound up because of his death so that this subject is all but ignored in this book is not so surprising either. Likewise, Khrushchev & Mao's sparring contest leading to the Sino-Soviet rift, and armed clashes between their countries in 1969 is also ignored. Also ignored in this admittedly slim book is how Mao went from being a nobody to leading the Chinese Communist Party. Apparently such issues as these are too pregnant with inconvenient history or are not particularly interesting to Mr. Spence; who instead dispenses with heck of a lot of ink regaling us with details of Mao's family life---4 marriages resulting in 10 births. So we learn such important stuff as which child studied where or who of the 10 survived into adulthood. We are also treated to a litany of people that Mao could have gotten more accurate information from, but didn't, as he became more and more "divorced from reality"; as if Mao & his entourage had little clue what was really going on in the country. Yeah, that's what happened. Sometimes it's worth reading such a slim volume as this one; for instance, to get an idea of the story before moving on to more substancial works, but regarding this book I suggest you attempt a more coherent work instead and ignore Mr. Spence's "Mao." (Aside: I read and reviewed this book while in China myself.) Cheers! 
