but to me, it is.  I eagerly bought this book and read it right when it came out.  What did I find?  A bunch of abstractions about Gods and Goddesses, combined with some interesting insights on motherhood, touring, and dealing with the music business.

I actually think the fault lies with Ann and not with Tori.  It seems difficult to me that an artist in mid-career could really view herself objectively enough to write well about herself.  The job of a music journalist, it seems to me, is to push the artist to discuss uncomfortable topics and gain new insights.

I am more interested in what Tori does not say than what she does.  I've heard a few too many thousand times about her problems with Christianity.  What about her experiences as a prodigy?  I'd like to know more about that.  I've heard little more than her excitement at starting Peabody at age 5 (and, as everyone knows, her feet didn't reach the pedals) and her rebellion against Peabody.  What about her feelings about her parents?  

It seems to me her father pushed her really hard to be a musical genius.  It is possible to push even a very gifted child like Tori too hard.  Does she have no resentment at all about that?  Does she ever wonder if she's a musician first to her parents, or their daughter?  When I hear about how involved her father is with her career - he reads her fan mail, according to Little Blue World - I wonder about these things.  What about the unending pressure she puts on herself to be true to her vision?  Does she ever want to relax and just try to fit in, for once?  Does she ever have a mood where she wants to just vaporize all the pianos on Earth, just for one day, because she's sick of it all?  Did she ever have moments where she regretted being so open about her rape?

These are just a few of the questions I have.  It seems to me that Ann was too much of a fan to do a good job and what we've got here is a hagiography - and frankly, they are often boring.  I hope someone chooses to do a deeper and more interesting analysis someday
