I have been interested in the subject of paranormal and unexplained phenomena since I was in 4th grade. I have a considerably large library of books on the subject and I purchased this book because of the good reviews and because I have read a couple of other of Jerome Clark's books (The UFO Book, Unnatural Phenomena) which I thought were excellent. I hate to say this but I'm sorry I bought this one. Clark does not use any cross references in the text, and he is far too subjective on certain topics and too objective on others. He seems to place more emphasis and belief in chupacabras, green children and black dogs than in such physically tangible phenomena as spontaneous human combustion (by the way: In spite of what Clark has to say about the subject, SHC is a real phenomenon--I have a close friend who once had a neighbor in Florida that died in this terrible manner; incidentally, she was not alone at the time--there were family members present!)

But what really upset me and raised my ire about the book was when I got to the last section and found that Clark had relegated Noah's Ark as a "Thing That Is Not"! Being a Christian who believes that the Bible says what it means and means what it says, I was really perturbed by this. Clark states in the Noah's Ark section that "if the ark had come to rest near the summit of Ararat 5,000 years ago, it likely would have shifted by glacial movement to lower elevations long ago. To at least some extent, the ark would have broken up, the wood strewn about on the lower slopes of the mountain, easily accessible even to those who are not mountain climbers".

Well, I beg to differ with that remark. The Eastern Turkey-Caucasus region is one of the most seismically active areas on earth and over the last 5,000 years there have been numerous earthquakes and avalanches in the area around Ararat, so many in fact that I'm sure that any remaining pieces of the ark would be long since buried under 30, 40, perhaps even 50 feet of earth, i.e. they wouldn't just be lying around on the ground in plain view to be picked up! Of course, Clark doesn't mention this probability because he was only seeking to discredit the ark account altogether.
[...
