  I was very excited to read this book. And I was immediately enticed right into the story. I loved the color of the story, the characters, as well as the compelling flow of the beginning of this story. It starts off being a magical page-turner that seemingly is moving into an even more exciting story.  But from that great start the story, in my opinion, goes no where. 
     Other reviewers of this book have just cause to write that there are perhaps too many characters. That might in deed be true.  The problem with the book for me is that it becomes incredibly predictable "been there done that". I would have preferred the fantasy elements of this book to have stuck with the Native American aspects, as well as other unique entwinements, instead of delving into the same old Fantasy elements with Merlin "Myrrdin", "Taliesin", and the same old stories intertwined. I thought by using well known Celtic and Druidic mages of old reduced the book, and story.  I was dissapointed when Taliesin officially entered the multitude of Central Characters.  
   The book plays out more of a day dream or "lucid dream" of someone would want to have happened in thier life, rather then a truly good story.  The story gets to a point where it absolutely ceases to surprise. I found myself skipping through pages to get to the end. I knew that I wasn't missing anything. And that is such a contrast to how the book starts off.

  The book plays out like a below average Horror-Mystery story (with a very weak Horror aspect).  
  There are very clever, and magically woven points laced into the book, especially the beginning, but the story runs into so many problems, and ultimately just loses its momentum. It's too bad because it had great potential.  But one can see from this book, the First by De Lint that he had great potential. Potential that many would argue was surely fulfilled with his later books, which still continue to come out today.
  If you are looking for the best of De Lint, or simply a good Fantasy read I would definitely not start here. I give it 2 Stars only because of its great beginning. But the rest of the book is just flat out dissapointing
