I bought this book, and several others in the whole french chic genre.

I agree Frederik Fekkai's book, A Year of Style, and Genevieve a Darieaux's book are supreme. 

So is Things a Woman Should Know about Style by Karen Homer.

Leah Feldon's advice on dressing rich and dressing thin is along these lines and really good value if you are trying to create a core or capsule wardrobe along french chic lines. Which translated simply stands for quietly elegant.

Anne Barones 3 Chic and Slim books have a few gems in them too, available on her website, although not for the inflated prices on the web. Google her name and the title, and the site should appear.

Finally Entre Nous was a great book discussing a lot of different aspects of french life including the diet, wardrobe, manners etc.

This book in comparison comes up WAY short. The pictures are outdated already, which wouldn't be such a problem if the text had anything of value to say.

The classic perfume list was interesting, 

but you can figure that out using Karen Homers tiny but terrific little book Things a Woman Should Know about Style (which is a terrific companion to Genevieve a Dariaux's A Guide to Elegance-- it updates Genevieve quite nicely).

all in all I'd say hang onto your money, and buy:

Things a Woman Should Know about Style by Karen Homer and

Genevieve a Dariaux's A Guide to Elegance along with

Frederic Fekkai: a Year of Style (out of print now, but worth getting!) and

Does This Make Me Look Fat?: the Definitive Rules for Dressing Thin for Every Height, Size, and Shape by Leah Feldon 

Leah has good advice on shopping for quality, and if you want more, she has an out of print one that dates back 20 years that still has good advice in it.

If you are still thirsting for more, go to Anne Barone's site and order chic and slim and see if you like that, 

as well as Entre Nous by Debra Olliver.

That little "bookshelf" will net you a thousand times better advice on learning grace, style and chic than this little photo essay book
