I am a big lover of fantasy and sci fi.  And after giving Cornwell's historical fiction a try, I thought I'd give this 5 star book some of my time.  The book starts out great and I actually thought it was deeper than Cornwell's Saxon Stories.  But then Joanna grows up and everything turns in to a giant never ending soap opera.  Instead of having a standard love triangle in standard soaps, there's one with her father and her husband instead.  

As someone else mentioned, all the important historical events are overlooked and brushed aside in favor of vivid descriptions of Joanna's feelings and fiascos with her husband.  I would have never picked up this book if I knew it was a huge romance novel with a historic backstory.  GUYS, this is a romance novel. I read up to page 400 in search of something to happen.  There is one minor battle in the beginning and that's it!  Everything that is eventful is just brushed over in brief descriptions in the beginnings of chapters.  Then on to move romance with Joanna and looking through her lashes and crying!

It's not that I hate romance, I thoroughly enjoyed the first half of Titanic.  Enjoyed Romeo and Juliet to a degree.  But I hate Joanna with a passion.  It's like all she ever does is whine and she betrays Llewelyn like he's nothing.  I can't tell you how much I wanted her to die while giving birth so the story would move on.  I mean her husband's son was about to be hanged and all she thinks of her is herself.  

Also, I think I would like to avoid certain female writers from now on.  Like Robin Hobb, Penman's writing is full of preachings about how females are just as strong as males.  However subtle, it's just too much!  Also, their writing is so wordy and they write like they think they have this womanly insight that men completely lack or something.  

I mean two kings of their kingdoms are bending their wills, putting their entire countries aside in order to please a woman?  How irresponsible the men are as well as selfish.

Males avoid this book unless you're a major fan of the Oprah show!  Or if you enjoy reading about how women want to be hugged after they betrayed their husbands! I just wanted to scream reading some of that fluff
