I can't fathom why this book is beloved.  It's just awful.  Alright, that's a little strong.  The first third-to-half of the book is just awful:  tedious, depressing, tiresome, plotless.  Indeed, Lawrence put a sentence in that, amazingly, perfectly summarizes the first half of the book:  

"The days seemed to grind by, with curious painfulness, yet nothing happened."

That really does say it all.  The protagonist plods through her dreary, depressing life, and nothing happens.

At times during this book, I got the feeling that Lawrence really wanted to be a botonist rather than a novelist, because he spends more time talking about every last plant in the woods than he does talking about any of the people in the story.  For a while I had to keep going to the dictionary to look up every plant I'd never heard of, until I finally just gave up.

Eventually, in the last third or so of the book, it starts getting a little more interesting.  But sadly, while it starts to appear that something resembling a plot is finally developing, in the end nothing very much comes of any of it.

But we DO get long, windy, insufferably self-righteous political nattering, of a Rousseau-ian nature:  all industrialism and capitalism is bad and we should go back to some idylic state of nature thing that never in reality existed (in reality, life in the state of nature is nasty, brutish, and short).  This is at its most ludicrous when the title character makes all these chicken-little doomsday predictions about how mankind is going to be basically wiped out in 100 years unless we give up industrialism/capitalism and all.  Well, the book came out in 1928, so he's still got some 20 years to not look like an utter nincompoop.

But I could tolerate the misguided ranting if the rest of the book were good.  It is not.  The biggest problem is the oppressive dreariness of it.  This stems largely from the fact that Lawrence only ever seems interested in writing about emotionally crippled people (so much so that I strongly suspect  that he was emotionally crippled himself).  Every character is decidely neurotic, each in their own special flavor.  The closest thing we have to a representative of mental health would be Mrs. Bolton.  The central character Connie does eventually get her head screwed on straight by the end of the book, but it sure takes her long enough.  I just could not identify with these people one tiny iota.  Repeatedly I just wanted to hit them for their behavior and emotional attitudes.

To its credit, the book does advocate an unabashed, unashamed joyous love of sex, something with which I am totally on board.  But that's about the only good thing I could find to say
