I bought Elizabeth Aston's Mr. Darcy's Daughters and  The Exploits and Adventures of Miss Alethea Darcy at an used bookstore at the same time and so I had no choice but to give them a whirl.  I didn't like Mr. Darcy's Daughters so I had no big expectations with this one.  I don't know if my not expecting much had actually made this book a little more enjoyable than its predecessor, but it was.  This one picks up where the fist installment left off.  Alethea Darcy, the Darcys' youngest daughter is miserable.  Her unhappy marriage to the controlling Mr. Norris Napier, whom she married after the love of her life marries someone else and leaves on the verge of ruin, has left her no choice but to run as far away from him as possible.  Alethea and her personal maid dress up as men in order to avoid being recognized as they travel to Italy.  She wants to be with her sister Camilla, the one person she has always confided in.  But on her way to Venice, she encounters several obstacles, one in particular in the form of  Mr. Titus Manningtree.  Titus cannot believe the woman's boldness and improper behavior, but he is also smitten by her wit and spirit.  Feelings ensue between these two characters, but will Alethea ever be free from her husband?  There are some twists throughout the novel.

Elizabeth Aston is no Jane Austen.  I have known that since reading the first installment of this series.  As said earlier, I was unimpressed with the first novel and thought that the five daughters were almost exact replicas of the Bennett sisters.  And the whole thing centered on improper behavior and ruined reputations appalled me because Jane Austen would have never written something like that.  Having said that, The Exploits and Adventures of Miss Alethea Darcy was more enjoyable because Aston created some rather compelling situations this time that didn't sound like a bad copy of a Jane Austen novel.  It is also a relief that most Pride and Prejudice characters don't appear much here (and the appearances and mentions of P&P characters include Mr. Collins, who is as annoying as ever).  Alethea Darcy is an interesting heroine.  Out of the five women Aston created in the first book, she is the most interesting and I'm glad that the author decided to do a spinoff with her.  Titus is also compelling.  However, the reason for his European trip (to try to find his father's Titian painting) is just a contrived plot device to put these two characters together.  The fact that the painting isn't mentioned again proves this theory.   As for the novel in general, I suppose that the main reason why I liked this one a little more was because I was able to suspend the fact that these characters are based on the beloved Pride and Prejudice.  I read this as a standalone novel and not as part of a sequel of the aforementioned classic.  I had to do it so that I wouldn't throw the book against the wall.  There are, after all, things here that Austen would never have written about.  And there were still things that puzzled me.  The historical accuracy here is questionable.  Some things just don't ring true for that era.  Homosexuality and sexual things in general are discussed a little too openly.  That was unheard of in Regency England.  There were other things that annoyed me because I wasn't sure if they were true to the period or not and they pulled me out of the story again and again.  All in all, The Exploits and Adventures of Miss Alethea Darcy is a better read than Mr. Darcy's Daughters.  However, it is nevertheless far from being perfect, which is why I give it two and a half stars
