
For the first two thirds of this book is basically an antidotal cultural history of the Basque.  The light style and treatment of the subject are engaging. 

However, slowly and by degrees the book spawns a naive ETA apologist essay of sorts  that smoothly threads its way through the continuing cultural discussions of the Basque.

The author blames the victims of ETA for the violence by implying that Spain is bringing ETA violence down on itself by insisting that total independence for the Basque regions of Spain is not negotiable and insisting ETA renounce violence.

The author indulges in hand wringing and whining about anti-terrorist Spanish legislation that allows the authorities to hold a terrorist suspect ten days incommunicado without charges.  The book was written pre 9/11 (and pre 3/11) and consequently the author's arguments come across as rather limp in view of current events.

He also believes that if Spain negotiates or grants more autonomy that ETA will simply "disappear."  I can't tell whether the author is a dupe or just unbelievably naive.  Since this book was written in 1999 Spain has granted more autonomy and guess what?  ETA hasn't gone anywhere and is still murdering people.

This author also talks about ETA and the Catalonia aspirations for more autonomy in the same breath.  Gee I don't remember the Catalans murdering 800+ people.

He also implies that the 40 odd Basques killed are somehow no more reprehensible than the 800+ Spaniards murdered by ETA.  If you follow his logic you arrive at moral equations like 1 ETA terrorist killed in a gunfight = 20 civilians killed with a car bomb.

He also adroitly avoids pesky topics like- 

Who exactly are the ETA terrorists?  

If they share the same aspiration as the Catalans why did they plant a bomb in a supermarket in Catalonia and kill Catalan women and children?

What about ETA internal violence?  ETA has purged some of his own over the years.  Why avoid that potentially interesting topic?

How is ETA financed? 

Is it extortion you think?

Why detail alleged police abuse of ETA suspects and not the ETA war tax?

Why do successful Basques in the Basque provinces avoid any outward show of wealth?  They are afraid of being kidnapped for ransom or having their war tax increased that's why.  The author apparently didn't deign to talk to any of these people or any of the family members of Basque entrepreneurs who were brutalized for not paying their war tax.

Following a line of inquiry like this might force the author to examine inconvenient questions like, what is ETA's overall economic impact on the region?

With so many capable motivated and well educated workers, is ETA why international investors and companies avoid the Basque provinces like the plague? 

The author talks at length about the Guggenheim in Bilbo, how it was paid for, it's relative architectural value, the local support it had, etc. without mentioning that ETA tried to bomb it when it opened and shot and killed a policeman near the entrance.  How did this further the goals of ETA?

No wonder no one in Spain or anywhere else is crazy to visit it.

Why talk about GAL's mercenary nature and international component and not about ETA's international operations and links?

Like the seamy links with the IRA and the old un-rehabilitated Gadaffii.

And what about the contract hit they did (unsuccessfully) for the Sandinistas on Eden Pastora?

What about the huge ETA arsenal that accidentally blew up in Panama?  

An ETA operative there had acquired the largest arsenal in non-governmental hands ever discovered according to press reports.  

Has the author nothing to say about the worldwide network of ETA (often using a Basque restaurant as a front) that funnels arms and money back to their compatriots in Spain?

With an international organization and extensive infrastructure like this it seems to me like they are planning to hang around awhile and have no more intention of "disappearing" than Al Qaeda.

So what is the future of ETA if you reach the wild conclusion that they may not just simply "disappear"?

In the unlikely event an independent Basque country came about might ETA try to install themselves in power by force?  The author admits they are Marxist in nature and only a small minority of Basques support their actions, so it seems contrived that this topic is never broached.

These topics, despite their interesting nature and many sides, might make ETA appear less noble and more like a greedy band of blood thirsty thugs so the author simply ignores them.

Anyone who has even a cursory knowledge of ETA knows that they are about as altruistic as the mafia.  The author takes great care in contorting his little history to hide this fact.  To me, this is totally unacceptable reporting.  I will not buy another of his books.
