Overall, I wouldn't recommend the Insider's Guide to the Colleges to either parents or students.  I feel that Fiske, Princeton Review and Kaplan (even though the last edition is becoming dated) are better sources of information.  

However, there are some good aspects to the Insider's Guide so I would at least recommend picking up the book at the library and skimming the beginning section on choosing a college.  Insider's does a good job of mentioning all the facets a student should consider and they do a very fair job of detailing the strengths and weaknesses of both small and large schools.

On the other hand, I have to agree with the reviewer who said that the entries make each school sound like either a "party school" or a "nerd school" as if colleges only came in two varieties.  I think it quickly becomes very hard to distinguish individual qualities of the schools because so much emphasis is placed on the balance of partying to studying to the exclusion of other information, particularly about good academic reasons to attend a school.  It's also apparent that Insider's is placing a little too much emphasis on sports when they discuss a school's croquet or handball program.  Yep, that makes the school different, but it should be obvious to Insider's that there are other aspects of the school they should have focused on instead. 

Now my writing is not the best, but I suppose I expected better from Yale students.  One writer used the non-existent word "irregardless" (it's "regardless") while another couldn't be bothered to check if Stony Brook was one word or two.  The writers sometimes delivered badly executed last paragraphs with incongruous sentences, poor transitions and confusing conclusions.  You end up with something like "Students at X University say that the food is horrific, the dorms should be condemned and the school is less exciting than a cemetery.  It's a great place to spend four years."  Yes, I suppose it would be fair to give them a break since they're only undergraduates (I think), but I feel it's important to expose our high school kids to the superior writing found in other guides like Fiske or Princeton Review instead of something that's not very good.  

This brings me to the Insider's Guide's assertion that the book is "funny and incredibly entertaining."  While this is subjective, I strongly disagree.  The Insider's Guide is fairly boring compared to the much wittier Princeton Review guide.  Personally, my favorite is Fiske, but I would say that if a parent is having trouble getting her teenager to start looking at colleges seriously, she'd pick up something besides Fiske, and I suspect it's often the Insider's Guide as it's written by "students for students."  However, not only is Princeton Review better written, the format of the Insider's Guide is user-surly with small print and cramped, unattractive pages.  I will say that the Insider's Guide does a better job of sticking to factual statistics than giving schools subjective ratings on a four-star scale, and some may prefer that.  As a matter of fact, the Insider's Guide does have a few statistics that Princeton Review neglects and two of them are important:  The freshman retention rate and the graduation rate.  Both statistics are fairly good indicators of how happy students are at their respective schools.  So if those stats are important to you, that might be one reason to at least browse through the Insider's Guide.  

The Insider's Guide inexplicably leaves out some top-notch schools, particularly in Texas and Louisiana (such as Loyola) while including some rather absurd choices that have SAT means in the low 400's or in one case, 300's.  They also have a number of large state schools that I don't feel have any place in a guide to the "top schools."  The fact is that they attract a multitude of applicants which means more people will buy this book.   I wouldn't suggest removing the schools with very unimpressive statistics if there are sufficient reasons to keep them (in many cases, I couldn't find any), but with some  incomprehensible exclusions, I can't say I find the book authoritative or comprehensive.  Go with Fiske or, if your student isn't excited about researching colleges, go with Princeton Review.    
