Before all Evanovich fans blast me double barrels, please note: This refers to the audio CD, abridged version of High Five.
It was my first J.E. novel & I thought would be the last.  Having read many customer reviews, I might have to try reading one instead of listening.  
I found the story to be limp & quite elementary.  Chief problem: the AUDIO CD reader whose lisp is most annoying.  It sounds as though she's auditioning for a part in a high school play...one she won't get.  Or auditioning for the role of "Thindy" Brady of Brady Bunch fame...a part she's destined to play.  Is there something poignant about the selection of this particular reader?  She does Evanovich no justice.
The story begins with a missing uncle report...main character "Stephanie's" missing uncle, that is.  Oddly, no one reports that he's missing for 2 days & none seem very concerned about his disappearance.  I found it extremely odd that the family would discuss his absence "over coffecake as is customary in the 'burg in New Jersey."  Pardon me, I'm not from "the 'burg" or NJ but it's really a stretch to believe that everyone from the "'burg" casually discusses the case of a missing relative while dining on coffeecake.
Attempts at humor are pathetic, such as: "I got my shower; jumped out & dried my hair by way of styling it."  What????  "Ranger" naturally drives a Ranger (creative genius there).  Stephanie goes on a job & forgets her gun (was I supposed to fret or laugh?  Who knows w/this reader's tonal quality).
The novel continues, yet still no one concerns themselves with the missing uncle.  Stephanie sleeps around with carefree abandon but it is tough to take seriously while listening to that lisp!  Characters appear & we really have no clue as to why they immerged onto the scene. (Maybe the clue was in book 1, 2, 3 or 4??)
Again, this is the AUDIO version.  The reader's voice works as well as Michael Jackson reading the Da Vinci Code...a no can do!
After listening to the audio version of High Five, I can emphatically state: sometimes words are better left unspoken (just read them!)
