Based upon other positive reviews I had high hopes for this book being informative, but it bases its data more on speculation than on fact.  When this book was first written at the time of the "revolution" (in 1979), the author wrote that he had heard that Israeli soldiers were part of the Shah's defense forces in attacks against anti-Shah rioters.  But twenty years later by the time of this 2001 re-publication, the author had not been able to ascertain that Israeli units had indeed been part of the Shah's defense forces -- speculation on rumor, but no determinable fact, although the anti-Shah forces had twenty years to comb through Iranian documents.  As the author presents a thin-bone background to the theology of Shi'ism, a reader is left powerfully hungry in looking for some 'meatiness' to the author's explanations.  Although this book is based upon four lectures that the author gave shortly after the 1979 revolution, the author rambles about in trying to make some coherent story. The author explains that the Shiite are split between two schools of thought, the Usuli and the Akhbaris, as to whether or not modern Shiites can "engage in independent reasoning with respect to legal questions" in the absence of the Hidden Imam.  The author examines this issue as it underpins the development of Ayatollah Khomeini's rebellion against the Shah: Khomeini argued that Shiite imams needed to take an active role in fomenting Islamic rebellion against the pro-secular Shah, rather than remaining passive.  The author all too briefly notes one of the imams' complaints against the Shah: that he was taking mosque-controlled lands and selling it to private individuals and thereby curtailing their income from those properties.  The author does not hide his pro-Shiite faith.  In response to one question asked of the author in 1979 as to whether or not he agreed that: "If national boundaries were taken away....the differences between Sunni and Shi'i would disappear in one instant", the author replied back then: "Very definitely."  However, twenty years later, by 2001 the author apparently had had a good dressing down by his Shi'i superiors and had to add a corrective footnote: "the differences themselves are deep-rooted and ultimately irreducible" (pg. 81).  This is not a book to read to learn about Shi'ism.  It is more of a television "talking heads" presentation based from several public lectures; a lot of polemics, but short on fact regarding riot casualties.  It barely rates being worthwhile for reading in understanding how the anti-Shah movement developed.  It is barely worth reading for a background 'feel' as to why religious leaders (imams) should be the only ruling leaders of an Islamic government (mujtahid); the people may vote for only those candidates who have prior approval from the imams and who toe the Shi'i theology.  This isn't a textbook, it is more of a compilation of "off the cuff" extemporaneous remarks in a lecture hall. Okay for a novice just starting to explore this topic, but read it at the library before buying it. 
