It is painfully obvious that anyone who gave this book more than two stars are failures with women and have little or no experience in the field of seduction arts. I am only saying this so that you learn from mine and other's mistakes on here. I learned the hard way by buying many books like these and studying them only to realize it was a huge waste of time. DON'T LOOK FOR SO-CALLED SIGNALS OF ATTRACTION. ASSUME ATTRACTION. If you are "in your head", thinking about what is or is not a body language signal of attraction you will not have a natural conversation and you will look like a chode. This doesn't mean to just be your socially retarded self and continue to bore her by plowing on with meaningless conversation and approval-seeking behavior. Know that women will frequently give signs of disinterest even if they like you as a test to see if you are actually the "cool socially-suave" guy you present. They will also, show signs of disinterest so that they don't appear too easily won over or look like tramps. 

Don't learn how to pick up women from a woman. Learn from men. I know this sounds sexist, but you will know what I mean once you start studying the "real" seduction stuff. If you heard the audiobook I have from this author, "How to Talk to Anyone" you would probably realize how clueless this lady is about seduction. She is older than dirt and sounds like my grandmother. She refers to old Count Bassie songs and uses way out-dated terms and references. She is hokey as hell.  

If you really want to have alot of options with women (get over that "one" girl-you creepy stalker) start becoming social, understand what it is to be alpha, get some self-confidence, then read the Mystery Method (my first choice)and take a bootcamp, get out in the field and practice, practice, practice, without worrying about your ego.  

Why are seduction guru's like Neil Straus and David D'Angelo endorsing this? Because it's good for business to mutually endorse all of the commercial seduction authors out there. It's bad for business to trash talk anyone. This way they put their little endorsements on other's books as free advertisment for their own merchandise. It's sickening. 
