The short answer is that this book reads like a game adventure module and I'll try to keep being brief in what follows:

- Good
1) He has a nice way of scenery descriptions. The battles use dramatic similies that are clear and fun (except for the one about flying dwarf's being "like a NINEPIN"??? Oh com'mon!! I expect to see a Bowling supplement for sporting games played in Forgotten Realms!)).
2) Dialogue was decent and writing was clear, concise and direct.
3) The Telkiira and Selukiira, even the Mythal are great seeds for a story.
4) I like the demonfae conceptually, but hated the execution in the book.

- Not so Good
1) The Demonfae concept is cool. I wish Richard stuck with them and ONE demon who helps to spawn them. Demonfae should have been the only ones supplementing the orc army, not the zoo that was in the book. This multi-legged,  would-eat-their-'master'-as-soon-as-serve-her hodgepodge of random monsters was just the last straw for me, after suffering through a laborous allusion to a "delayed blast fireball." It was like reading the results of a horrible dice roll on a random monster generation table. To those questioning why I have a problem with this armies' make-up, never mind why. The reasons should be obvious and are just too long to go into here. So let's just say that Noah had fewer critters in the Ark than this army had surreally cooperative chaotic evil races.
2) The descriptions of spells and the inner thoughts of the main character are a tad too much like a game module. Spells were named out of the book or described as if out of the major arcana and battle with the Iron Golem played out like a player fought the automoton, not that a wizard encountered a living machination.

I'm not a codger or a purist or a libarian. I'm just a guy looking to find something good to read and tried out this trilogy. In general my impression is this... I own the second book and am having to search for reasons to read it. Not because Richard isn't an inadequate writer, but because with his ability and creativity, the story could be so very much better than it was
