This poorly written and researched book is typical of the "hype" that is continually fed to the American public -- EVERYTHING is a crisis! EVERYTHING (from terrorism to the food we eat) is an epidemic! We are bad, and we need to change our behavior -- FAST, or some terrible disaster will befall us.

If you study the history of fads in the US, you find a disturbing trend to demonize food, or to believe that if you eat a certain way (all meat, no meat, vegan, low carbs, no carbs, etc.), then all will be well...you will live forever and your life will be perfect.

There is also an alarming tendency to blame people for their own health problems. It is rare to hear anyone be so heartless and cruel as to blame someone for getting cancer, but just listen to the self-righteous lecturing when author Francine Kaufman blames the overweight for developing diabetes!

I write this as someone who has so much diabetes in her family, that almost every relative of mine has this disease...at least 90%. So I take it very seriously, read everything I can on the illness and try to live as healthy a lifestyle as I can. But -- it's still an illness. My family history shows that it is clearly HEREDITARY, and not entirely due to lifestyle. A number of my family members who became diabetic (Type 2) were NOT obese...some were slightly overweight and others actually slim. 

One thing utterly ignored by this poorly researched book is that slim people can and do develope Type II diabetes, especially with age. And that the majority of overweight individuals do NOT have diabetes.

There is obviously a link between Type II diabetes and extra weight, but the most advanced research indicates that diabetes is a far more complex disease than people previously thought....the failure of the bodies complex system of managing carbs and sugars, insulin, etc. begins years before diabetes is diagnosable. I believe, along with many researchers, that it is this long period of insulin surges that causes vulnerable individuals with a genetic pre-disposition to have huge appetites and overeat, thus becoming overweight. The overweight may be a signal that something is indeed wrong metabolically with an individual, and should be managed. However, blaming the patient (i.e., he or she is a "fat pig" and needs to deny themselves every kind of good tasting food, plus do punishing excercise) is wrong and is guaranteed to fail, as is ANY medical diagnosis that is based on blame and moral judgement, instead of science.

The biggest problem fueling the "diabetes" crisis is that 45 million Americans do not have access to health insurance, and therefore, have no medical care of any kind. This means they can't have the checkups, diagnosis, insulin, diabetes monitors, etc. that are essential to treating the disease...hence, their disease goes unchecked until it becomes a life-threatening crisis. This is intolerable in a civilized nation! This is the problem we need to be addressing, not blaming people and trying to shame them for having an illness.

I am heartily sick and tired of this kind of book, which exploits the sick and suffering of human beings, just to sell copies and comes up with "cute" names like "Diabesity" to describe serious medical conditions.

If you are interested in genuine diabetes research on the cutting edge, or having serious concerns about yourself or a family member in this regard, please read some better researched and less commercial books on this subject
