As a resident of the author's city, I was looking forward to reading her much anticipated release.  Unfortunately though, I was sorely disappointed.  In fact, the reviewer who awarded A Taco Testimony two stars was generous.  Unlike the 2-star reviewer though, I stuck with it, reading page after dull page, hoping it would improve (but never does), much like a monotonous "Saturday Night Live" skit that doesn't know when to end.  

Without semblance of structure, she haphazardly places poems, recipes, and anecdotes at random, repeating herself ad nauseam utilizing the sophomoric "Taco is life" metaphor.  Moreover, her inchoate thoughts lack depth and detail.  Riddled with inconsistencies and contradictions, full of fluff and devoid of content, her style resembles that of a grade-groveling high school sycophant, trying to con her audience with melodrama and malaise, but inevitably saying nothing of note. 

In her weak attempt to explain "Culture", for example, she affirms that it is lack of cultural awareness that results in our inability to know and respect others which ultimately causes violence in the world.  Here, I agree.  Yet her very example epitomizes HER ignorance of culture.  With awkward phrasing she states, "A man who lives here but is not from here is trying to sue the city to get the three crosses, the symbol of our town, removed from all public displays."  Not only does she promote divisiveness by insinuating that he is an outsider, despite claims throughout her book that we are all one people, she fails to acknowledge that the crosses of Calvary are recognized worldwide as the autograph of Christianity - that the triumvirate could represent centuries of violence perpetrated against non-believers.  By failing to recognize the identities of non-adherents of Christianity, she obliterates them from the landscape, engaging in her own brand of cultural imperialism.  Thus, the crosses are not merely the symbol of our town, the simplistic notion that the author would like us to believe.   

Perhaps the author is better suited to writing fiction.  I can only hope her tacos are better than her book.
