Parenting means to prepare a child for life, to nurture, to love, to guide, to teach.
Discipline is loving guidance, not corporal punishment, where the child in a demeaning and destructive way wrongly learns that violence is a form of acceptable communication and guidance, by parents. There are no benefits to hit a child - It is destructive for a child's self worth, self esteem, and demeaning and disrespectful. Children have feelings and emotions as adults. It is extremely unfair and disgraceful of parents to misuse their power on weaker people - our children - who are defenseless and who don't have their own voice. Your child will be confused and think "Why is my mother and father whom I love and trust inflicting pain on me?" Hitting a child, will separate the bond between parents and a child, and will only make the child fearful of their parents. In addition, hitting a child won't teach and guide a child towards better behavior in a constructive and communicative way. By slapping someone, what do you learn? Nothing - only that it is okay to be antisocial and misbehave and to be violent. Parents who hit their children are THE ONE'S misbehaving. They are no good role models. These parents need parenting classes and therapy as they are victims of abuse themselves. These parents are out of control and out of knowledge.  
Think of the Golden rule: Treat other people, yes children are people too, as you with to be treated yourself, with respect, love and kindness. Children are children: They need a safe place to explore their boundaries and to test their parents' love, where parents act as wise, patient, and loving parents- as parents. Why spank a child whose brains are not yet fully developed? Children don't know right from wrong -  It is our job to guide and teach them, not punish them. Christians should know better that "spare the rod, spoil the child" from Proverbs in Old Testament is not current any longer. Remember- With Jesus comes a better way, a New Law: The New Testament. Jesus does not spank the children. Jesus says "Let the children come to me". Jesus loves the little children. My fundamental questions are: Why do these parents give birth to children in the world if they can't raise children and love children? Where is the human intelligence here? These dysfunctional parents have grave limitations when it comes to parenting children, as they have not healed from their wounded past and subconsciousness. Their only driving force is to let the child take away their own pain from abuse, by forcing them to pay the price for their own pain, and force the child know how it feels like to be abused. 
Better books on child discipline: 
"The Natural Child" by Jan Hunt
"Parenting for a peaceful world" by Robin Grille
"Parenting from your heart" by Inbal Kashtan
"The Happiest Baby on the block" by Dr. Harvey Karp
"The Happiest Toddler on the Block" by Dr. Harvey Karp 
"The Discipline Book" by William and Martha Sears 
"The Case Against Spanking: How to Discipline Your Child Without Hitting" 
by Irwin A. Hyman
"The Irreducible Needs of Children" by T. Berry Brazelton, MD, and Stanley I. Greenspan, MD. 
"When your child drives you crazy" by Eda LeShan 
"Loving your child is not enough" by Nancy Samalin 
"Christian Parenting & Child Care: A Medical & Moral Guide to Raising Happy, Healthy Children." By William and Martha Sear
