Any book recommmended by Noam Chomsky, Bill Greider, and Ralph Nader is a socialist tome to be sure.  Jeff Gates, the author here, needs to acquaint himself with Adam Smith, author of "the wealth of nations". and Hernando DeSoto who wrote "the Mystery of Capitalism."  He also needs to come to grips with the truth that Marx's Capitalist Manifesto missed the mark when it failed to cite that human initiative is the most important component in the means of production and the means of exchange.  

It isn't capitalism that's out of control but those in the bureaucracy who seek to interposition themselves between the money freely spent by consumers, making one voluntary choice over another, and the corporations that have provided them with the requisite goods or services.  Unlike governments, corporations go out of business if they don't squarely meet consumer demand on an ongoing basis.

The reason why those in America have a better lifestyle, more choices, and a greater surplus for the common man is that private proerty in America is protected by a rule of law.  In Gates' world he or those like him would make the decisions as to who gets what, when where and how.  This is known as crony capitalism and is practiced around the world.  Indeed, all of those poverty stricken countries would do well to have companies like Microsoft or Walmart providing jobs for their citizens not to mention the cheaper, quality goods they provide.  Instead the political elites enrich themselves while overtaxing and over regulating those who would create new jobs.

Gates' citations of statistics in support of his theories is selective to say the least.  Nowhere does he mention that the number of hours the average worker has to work in order to buy a consumer good, say a car, has dropped dratically over the last 50 years.  Nor does he break out the amount of income apportioned to capital gains by those he sees as rich.  He picks starting dates which come immediately after down markets in securities where capital gains income was at a minimum, and then uses a future date coinciding with the culmination of a long uptrend in securities prices.  This is not the way to fairly represent the state of things in the economy.  As anecdotal proof, if things are so bad in America where are so many immigrants poring across our borders trying to get in?  How many people are taking a raft or swimming to Cuba for that free health care?

This is just another left-wing screed from a guy who truncated his analysis at the point where he felt sufficiently aglow with his own motives.  Jeff Gates, the self rightious apostate of the left, needs to continue doing his homework.  Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations" would be a good starting point.

