I found this book rhetorical and in some areas misleading. While I can sympathise with the authors' attempts in trying to make sense of the management problem that afflicts industry and government, their resort to claiming that all problems will be fixed through the application of six change forces is pure technique drivel. 

To be fair the concepts in the book are now becoming old (1997 reprint) but this does not distance it from deserved criticism. The last thing that the world needs is a dialectic that is predicated upon the Cult of the Leader(Leader Power) and a reverence to the ability of Information Technology to provide a managerial communications fix. Their concentration upon investor power is correct but for the wrong reasons. 

Investors are not good at judging customer value and their influence in redirecting customer-centric corporate direction through a compliant CEO has to be viewed with scepticism. Do not misunderstand me, I am not a managerial apologist. 

In concurrence with the authors I also believe that bureaucratic managerialism is inefficient and needs reduction. However the methods by which I would achieve this goal is not as socially disruptive as those endorsed by the authors i.e through rampant dismissals. I can understand why the authors state: ' We do not have the abswers' (p.215) to the unemployment dilemma.

The authors focus upon the Customer and upon Simpliicity are some of this book's redeeming features, until the authors start espousing the merits of outsourcing and the tired neo-conservative polemic that privatisation is a better economic model than public ownership. Outsourcing is only advantageous when core-competencies are not lost. The book's tenet revolves around the non-managerialism so would it not make sense to outsource management. Nowhere in the book is this stated. 

The latter privatisation/public ownership debate only has currency because we have been and still are existing in a flawed Neoclassical economic milieu that, by historical circumstances, has ruled Western Society since the time of Adam Smith. It is a philosophy that professes a primacy of the individual over community. 

Perhaps it is time to review this economic underpinning and start questioning the Neoclassical Economic ceteris paribus assumptions (see page 211) inherent in Neoclassical static economic models, especially in these times when Sustainability issues (ISO900, ISO 14001, etc.) have become paramount.

This latter exercise I think should provide the authors with a better avenue along which to proceed. I am convinced that the Chapter 3 heading is prophetic. I do not believe that this book is sufficiently detailed to provide the world with a blueprint that promises a 'Revolution that has not Happened
