At Marx's graveside, Engels praised him as a revolutionary -- which he was -- and credited him with two of the greatest scientific discoveries in human history: first, that "just as Darwin discovered the law of development of organic nature, so Marx discovered the law of development of human history" and second, that Marx had discovered the "special law of motion" without which all previous economics "had been groping in the dark." Setting history on equal scientific footing with evolutionary biology, and making economics for the first time truly scientific would indeed be astounding accopmlishments.

Neither claim, however, can be supported by the evidence. No one who is not a convinced Marxist can take either claim very seriously.

How seriously, then, should one take Monique Wittig's dialectical materalist feminism, in which male/female relations become another (albeit, all-important) variant on the class struggle?

Consider for a moment the passage that the above reviewer cites with approval:

"The perenniality of the sexes and the perenniality of slaves and masters proceed from the same belief, and, as there are no slaves without masters, there are no women without men. The ideology of sexual difference functions as censorship in our culture by masking, on the grounds of nature, the social opposition between man and women. Masculine/feminine, male/female are the categories which serve to conceal the fact that social differences always belong to an economic, political, ideological order. ...The masters explain and justify the established divisions as a result of natural differences."

Mastery and slavery are reciprocal relations. A master is necessarily a "master of ..." and a slave the "slave of ..." Reduce the situation to its simplest form: one master and one slave. If the master dies, the slave, having no master, is no slave; if the slave dies, the master, having no slave, is no master. Is it even remotely plausible to say that a man is always the "man of ..." or a woman a "woman of ..."? Let there be two, a man and a woman (the garden we can dispense with). If the man dies, is there no longer a woman, or vice versa?

One might wish to consider that "the perenniality of sexes" has at least *something* to do with sexual dimorphism in animals, something which, since it predates the human species, presumably also predates the human social "beliefs" which are said by Wittig to give rise to it.

Wittig makes some fair points about the use and abuse of sex differentiation as ideology, but her reasoning is constantly undercut by her fallacious inference from the ideological *use* of something X for political purposes to something X's *being* no more than an ideological construction. Are ideological appeals to nature sometimes used to mask social oppositions, as Wittig says? Yes. Does it follow that all appeals to nature are therefore either false or ideological? No. Are the categories male/female sometimes used to conceal differences which are in reality social, economic, and political? Yes. Does it follow that the categories male/female are merely ideological artifacts which exist only for the purpose of such concealment? No. Do oppressors always appeal to the natural order of things to justify their oppressions? Yes. Does it follow that all appeals to nature are attempted justifications of oppression on the part of would-be oppressors? No. &c.

Strictly speaking, Wittig's thought is impossible on its own terms, for "the primacy of difference so constitutes our thought that it prevents turning inward on itself to question itself, no matter how necessary that may be to apprehend the basis of that which precisely constitutes it." But, this, of course, is what Wittig proposes to do. We cannot be surprised -- for we recall that Marx's thought -- which exposed all previous (and indeed all non-Marxist thought) as mere ideology driven by material factors -- was itself exempt from that harsh fate, was instead, science. So too Wittig will provide us with an account that cannot be given by anyone lacking her dialectical materialism (i.e. her), and cannot be refuted by anyone at all -- since arguing against is, after all, with Freud, to further validate the theory.

Like Marx, Wittig is a bringer of enlightenment: "Women do not know that they are totally dominated by men, and when they acknowledge the fact, they can 'hardly believe it.' " One wonders what sort of "fact" is meant here, within the historicist, social-constructivist framework in which Wittig situates her discourse. One also wonders about this lack of knowledge on the part of women. Totally dominated! And unawares! Perhaps one wonders less at their incredulity upon being informed.

But matters are even worse: "And often ... they refuse to 'believe' that men dominate them with full knowledge." But the truth must out. (I am guessing that Wittig writes "believe" because, once she has delievered her revelation, on one can actually refuse to believe it -- at most, they can refuse to "believe" it). Men may also refuse to "believe" it, but unlike the benighted women, they have the knowledge that women (Wittig excepted) lack. Even Marx was never so bold as to credit the capitalists with anything beyond a clear view of their own short-sighted economic interest. But men are here an nigh omniscient class of oppressors -- although there seems to be a bit of a chicken and egg problem with this, if "men" and "women" are created only by men oppressing women, but there were neither men to oppress nor women to be oppressed before the oppression -- how did this all get started? But no matter! Has not Jean Paulhan said that women are slaves and love their slavery, in his preface to The Story of O? Ipse dixit; ergo hoc verum est.

"It cannot be said," Wittig says, "that one of these two productions (reproduction) is 'natural', while the other one is social." Again, Marx at least never attempted to formulate a theory of the class struggle for the means of production among the non-human species. Why? Because production, labor, work is what (for Marx) makes the human species distinctively human. A good argument for there being at least something natural about reproduction (it seems to me) is that it takes place both in non-human animals and it took place (as I presume Wittig would admit) in the pre-historic, pre-political evolutionary history of the human species. *That* reproduction may be commodified is not in question, but is it truly the case that to suggest that it is, in some sense, natural, to give "only the theoretical, ideological justification for oppression"?

Wittig writes in a powerful polemical style, but her argumentation, such as it is, proceeds in turn by assertion, appeal to quotations by (dubious) authorities, appeal to dubious theory (e.g. dialectical materialism) as if its truth were established, false analogies, and unwarranted inferences that (interestingly) always seem to arrive at pre-given truths as their conclusions. This is, in short, a book for the already convinced, or at best, a book for those willing to be convinced by rhetoric, revolutionary fervor, and righteous indignation rather than reasoning.

I cannot recommend it as a work of serious, thoughtful feminism
