This is a passionate and well-intentioned book, but one that is frustrating in many respects.  The conversational tone would work well to maintain student interest, and the earlier parts of the book do a good job of covering some background information on our evolutionary heritage.  One of the book's main messages is the advisability of looking beyond one's own culture as a way of avoiding short sightedness and avoiding culturally lethal, bad choices.  That's a very good message, and perhaps the best one that introductory students should learn, but the author tends to veer off into tangents against various undesirable features of (mostly) U.S. culture as a way of pointing out how culture can work against us.  While there are many things in our culture one could complain about justifiably (Yes, inequality is bad.  Yes, gender discrimination is bad.  Yes, corporate CEO pay scales are objectionable.), focusing so intently on the defects of just one complex culture creates an imbalance and, after awhile, starts to sound like a pretext for an agenda.  This also gets in the way of a comprehensive introduction to the discipline.  Aside from Maroon cultures, there are few substantive examples drawn from other world cultures, so it's hard to get a sense of the variety of human patterns.  After all the complaining about U.S. cultural defects, the book (surprisingly) devotes no attention to applied anthropology and how anthropologists have tried to redress problems by directing social change.  The chapters on kinship are also rough going, with insufficient explanation being given to some pretty tough terms.  Discussions of matrilineality also get short shrift.  In addition, there's an unfortunate rhetorical way of presenting our own culture in contrast to the fictional prehistoric Oma and Oma Backpacker.  That's a clever device up to a point, but it creates a potentially dangerous problem if students start to assume that we're some sort of evolutionary end point and that other, simpler cultures lack a similarly complex history.  What is one to make, for example, of cultures that have been around for as long, that aren't as complex as ours, and that might still look a lot like Oma and Opa?  By bringing the focus back so frequently to U.S. culture, the book almost works against itself and does not do as much as it might to effectively teach students how to look at other cultures.  In an introductory anthropology course, I would hope that students would get beyond the notion that the most important focus is "us," as opposed to "them."  As an anthropological perspective on U.S. culture, this book might be useful, but it's glibness ultimately undermines its value as a general introduction to cultural anthropology.   
