Science, as Galileo, Kepler, and Newton taught us in the seventeenth century, is the discovery of mathematical laws obeyed by nature. Those laws can only be discovered and then verified or challenged via systematic, repeatable experiments and observations, and to be 'believable' by the scientific community at large those claims must be verified by competent skeptics. Mendel's discovery of simple laws of evolution obeyed by garden variety peas falls into this category. Mendel's scientific discovery was the first step in our understanding of cell biology.

There can be no 'proof' (or 'disproof') of Darwinism at the macroscopic size scale. ''Macroscopic' here means phenomena with sizes on the order of centimeters or greater, roughly speaking. This was explained by the great physicist Erwin Schrödinger (who discovered quantum mechanics in 1925 parallel to Heisenberg) in his pathfinding 1944 monograph "What is Life?". In that book, Schrödinger reviewed all that was known about cell biology up through 1944, and then suggested the idea of the existence of a 'genetic script' in chromosomes (long linear molecules, roughly speaking). Schrödinger's speculation motivated Crick and Watson to discover the helical molecular structure of DNA and thereby also discover the genetic code, the code that explains how evolution proceeds at the molecular scale mutation via mutation. We can never hope to understand quantitatively how a fish evolved into a bird, but we have daily evidence of 'Darwinian evolution' in cell biology, e.g., in the rapid mutations of viruses and bacteria to new and unforeseen forms that current antibiotics and vaccines cannot defeat. This is 'complexity' at work, and the essence of complexity is surprises. For a very readable description of the 5-6 mutations required for a cell to evolve into a matastacizing tumor, see Robert Weinberg's "One Renegade Cell: How Cancer  Begins". It is cell biology, the 'reductionist science' based on Mendel's physically careful oberservations of evolution at work in the mundane growth of peas, that formed the basis for all later scientific work that has led to the amazing scientific breakthroughs that permit cancer treatment. 

In a word. 'creation science' is not science in any sense of the word, but 'evolution' is science. A scientific model or theory must be falsifiable, meaning that it must be possible to prove it wrong, if it is wrong, via repeatable identical experiments or observations made by competent skeptics (a first requirement for a 'competent skeptic' is that she has adequate scientific training to carry out the required experiments or observations). Until 'creation science' can produce falsifiable claims, it is not science, it is mere ideology. Evolution, on the other hand is falsifiable: we see it at work daily in the effects of mutations. 

As for the notion of 'intelligent design', it is not needed. We understand from physics how the universe evolved into galaxies from the rapid expansion of a 'hot' gas of fundamental particles. We understand from physics how the solar system formed via condensation. We understand how life evolves via DNA. There is no need, at any point, to assume that God (if she exists, whatever 'God' might mean) intervenes at all. The notion of intervention by a god is not a falsifiable idea, is not science. One can legitimately and intelligently express lack of understanding about the details of how life evolved initially from the formation of complex molecules like RNA and DNA (scientists certainly do), but religious fundamentalism can only thrive in a society that is scientifically ignorant. 

What was there before the Big Bang? Where did the initial energy come from? Very interesting questions, but we don't know and can't find out. We don't even know if those questions make any sense. There is quite a lot that we don't understand, and with good reason. Science doesn't answer all questions, it only answers falsifiable claims. And hard questions can't simply be answered 'on demand' but require years of smart, dedicated effort, the hardest questions will not be answered in our lifetime or in many lifetimes. We do not yet understand the details of fluid turbulence very well, e.g, and turbulence is not a complex phenomenon. You can believe what you want about religion, but unless your claims can be tested then don't try to pass them off as 'science'. One thing is certain: where science may leave gaps in the description of complicated details of the evolution of the universe and life, religion or other ideology cannot provide us with any competent or reliable answers
