The Images of America series features a wide range of topics by numerous authors. Some are quite good, others more mediocre, and a few are downright bad. This book falls at the lower end of the mediocre category.

The book covers only the area from Capitol Hill to Foggy Bottom, stopping short even of Georgetown. Generally, those are the areas out-of-towners stick to on their vacations, so this book will be relevant to them. Thomas Carrier, the author, virtually ignores the rest of the city and metropolitan area.

Dates are provided only for some of the photographs and illustrations, lessening their value. Quixotically, many of the captions go on at length about some building, then say that the illustration depicts the site before all that happened - leaving out anything about what you're actually looking at. The illustrations are keyed to maps at the beginning of each chapter - that's fine, but no street address is provided in most of the captions, which would have been useful. There also are a great many statues illustrated - again, fine for tourists, but not having much to do with the life of the city.

One example of the book's lack of focus: On page 105 is a fine photograph of the Watergate band barge, a fixture of Washington life for several decades until the advent of loud jet planes forced its removal in the early 1960s; the nearby Watergate complex of the 1960s got its name from this location. The foreground of the picture shows dozens of canoes filled with people crowding close to the barge early on a summer evening. Steps for people to listen to the free concerts are still by the river today - for no apparent reason until one understands the original purpose. Yet Carrier's caption is concerned completely with Memorial Bridge, seen only dimly in the background. His only comment on the barge is it's a "floating band stand." 

The absence of Carrier's understanding of social events and context and his focus on simplistic touristy features underscore the tone of the entire book.
