I received Turner's book "The Hidden World of Birthdays" and Gary Goldschneider's book, "The Secret Langugage of Birthdays" as Christmas presents. I became fascinated with the subject after reading Goldschneider's book years ago in a library, which seemed accurate to me. 

I had similar high hopes for Turner's book. I thought it would be an in depth study of astrology and birthdays. Her study is advice that, in my opinion, could be found online or in any book about astrology. The personality profiles she gives for each birthday is general, unhelpful and sometimes stupid. For example, on one birthday she gives the advice, of "Health Scent: Lavender--This scent might lead others to trust you and make you patient." Excuse me, but how can a specific scent lead others to trust you more? Or, on another she gives the Possessions and Desires, "Crocus: You may spend too much time stewing over those who have innocently harmed you." Turner doesn't give an explanation for why each of these flowers, charms, or colors are right for each birthday. 

Turner doesn't give any historical background for why certain stones, numbers, etc; would be good for one birthday as opposed to another. Nor does she explain how she develops the numerological numbers for each birthday. Another thing noticeably absent from Turner's book is that she doesn't have any descriptions about each one of the astrological signs or their "element" (i.e. fire, water, earth, air) and how they relate to one another.

In fact, Turner's book was so bad, the person who gave me the gift initially told me to trash it.


One might ask why I'm being so harsh on Turner? It's because I believe she's borrowed the "personology" premise from Gary Goldschneider and Joost Elffers in "The Secret Language of Birthdays" who do a much better job than she does. Each profile is more in depth, and they include names of famous people born on your birthday, as well as meditations, numerological and tarot cards related to your birthday profile, as well as specific explanations of how they developed them. At the beginning of Goldschneider's book there are definitions/personality traits of each specific astrological sign. Each sign is then divided into four groups (which includes the "cusp" group) and with personality traits and advice for each group. For example, Virgo is divided into Virgo I, Virgo II, Virgo III and the Virgo-Libra Cusp. It includes information about colors, plants, foods,composers,etc; attractions, and life path "themes" for each sign and the stage of human life that every sign represents. There's also an astrological chart included and an index to look up famous people and their birthdays. Turner's book has a few of these features, along with angels for each birth date, but no explanatory notes about why they're used for each day.

If you're looking for a great astrological study, there is no comparison:  skip Turner's book altogether and go with Goldschneider and Elffers's "The Secret Language of Birthdays."
