In brief: The negative reviewers of this book are right.  Rand had problems.  Early Objectivism was cult-like (and that is  carried forward still in the ARI/Peikoff branch of Objectivism).  But this book goes far beyond legitimate reporting on those topics, becoming fairly contemptible.

Page after page is marred by excessive (or utterly gratuitous) cheap shots and rambling.  There is a pages-long disquisition on the nature of monetary policy which is without relevance or even coherence, except to try to paint Alan Greenspan in the most negative light possible.  Even in the expected dirt-dishing sections, Walker frequently makes criticisms that either aren't founded, or that actually contradict another criticism he stated but a paragraph earlier.  (Only one tiny example among thousands: in the chapter on Nathaniel Branden, first Branden is bad because his early self-esteem theory didn't stress self-acceptance; then in the next paragraph, Branden is bad because he later modified or corrected his self-esteem theory, to stress self-acceptance).

In terms of biographical details about Rand and associates, the book supplies little that is new (i.e., that was not already in the 2 Branden biographies/memoirs, plus The Journals of Ayn Rand).

The book only begins to redeem itself in the last chapter or two.  Walker gives an interesting survey of old novels and movies that anticipated Rand's _Atlas Shrugged_.  The chapter only starts to work when Walker, in his own words, decides that "Whether Rand concealed any of these influences...I will not pursue" (in other words, to stick to reportage and not personal attacks).  If only he had done the same in the rest of the book!  But even this much-improved chapter is still marred by some strange non sequiturs and sudden ad hominems.

It could have been a good book; Walker obviously did a lot of research.  But he became consumed by his own hatred...not to mention his apparently resentful desire to promote certain non-Randians.  (For example, Walker insistently quotes Albert Ellis and Murray Rothbard at their worst, i.e., them at their most personally resentful.
