I've been climbing in CO for 30+ yrs and had done part or all of 7-8 of these routes before getting the book, so I think I'm in a good position to review it.  In short, I'd like my $$'s back.

My biggest problem is with the title.  The term "scrambling" has a fairly well-defined meaning in climbing jargon.  Namely, it refers to Third Class climbing where no rope is needed, except perhaps as a backup for emergency use or if one is climbing solo and wants an extra margin of safety.  But only seven of the routes in this book are rated Third Class.  The other 43 are Fourth and Fifth Class routes.  Yes, some are capable of doing such climbs without a rope, but that doesn't make them nonchalant scrambles.  While a book filled with the many excellent Third Class climbs available in CO would be a welcome addition, this certainly isn't it.  If you don't have rope, harness, protection, helmet, ice ax, and possibly crampons, you probably don't want this book.

Related to this is the author's invention of yet another difficulty rating system.  Don't ask me why.  This is a number which runs for one to three.  Even though not stated explicitly, you take the author's number and add two to it to get back to the standard class rating.  Standards exist for a reason and people should use them.  Actually the author does use the standard in the text, making it a puzzle why one would want to confuse things with a second difficulty rating.

I also had a gripe and a warning about one particular rating.  This concerns the Kelso Ridge on Torreys, a very well-travelled mountain.  The author gives it a 2, which means a Fourth Class rating.  I would hate for anyone who does this relatively easy Third Class route with only one short slightly difficult section (near the top) to think that they could then go and do, say, Ice Mtn or Pilot Knob because they're in the same class.  When you read the text you realize that the author's rating is a result of having done it in late March when new snow added to the difficulty.

I might also mention the choice of peaks in the book seemed to be based on no rationale other than that the author liked the climb.  There are some very popular climbs (like The Maroon Bells and The Crestones) sprinkled in with some very out-of-the-way obscure (at least to me) peaks.

Next issue: picture captions.  While photos can be a great addition to a book like this, they need to have good captions in order to justify the amount of text which has to be left out to make room for them!  Otherwise one doesn't really know where the picture was taken or exactly what one is looking at.  While in most cases this rule is followed, too often the captions were something ambiguous/obvious like "entering the gully".  (Like how many gullies are there an any given mountain typically?)  In other words, I found myself going back and forth from the photos to the text trying to figure things out -- which is the author's job.  In one case I swear the order of the photos was scrambled.  I'd rather have more text than pointless photos.

Last issue: the book is littered with errors.  The last page contains an Errata, but even casual study will turn up many more errors.  (Why not *fix* the errors before printing, rather than putting them in an Errata?  The mountains will still be there next week or month...)  There are places where the text refers you, puzzlingly, to a page that has to do with an entirely different climb.

A final note regarding the GPS data: I haven't checked the numbers to see if they're accurate, but I did look at enough routes to puzzle over why certain waypoints were chosen and not others.  Frankly, the choices often seemed haphazard.  In addition, many of the routes are only sparsely covered, with but 3 or 4 waypoints (while others have a dozen).  So while the GPS data is an addition, it's a slight one and not enough to overcome the many other downsides.

To summarize, I found this book a big disappointment.  Maybe a later edition will correct many of its faults, but consider buying it then only if you can afford the price to get a little bit of helpful info on a couple of routes of interest
