We all know Repbulicans don't care much for the environment, and now we're chopping down trees to give more praise to a man whose son's ambition is paid for with American lives. Why was this book written? Are trhe Bush-Kochs suddenly strapped for cash?  

The book, if you can focus on a father and daughter that aren't dripping with wealth and power, is good enough. I like GHWB, voted for him, but the lovefest is going way overboard. 

And as for the $500 billion dollar aircraft carrier (the tenth and final Nimitz-class supercarrier) just commisioned and named after George, Sr---it was absolutely wrong to do so. The man CVN-77 should have been named after is Admiral James B. Stockdale. Admiral Stockdale, a distinguished naval aviator and test pilot flight instructor, flew over 240 carrier-based missions, earned 28 combat decorations, and after being shot down over North Vietnam in 1965, spent 8 years as a P.O.W., 4 years in leg irons, 2 years in complete darkness, tortured and beaten daily. It is amazing that he didn't go blind after 2 years in darkness, malnourished and sleeping on concrete. Despite all of his pain, his primary concern was always the welfare of his fellow prisoners and that they received enough food and proper medical care. Stockdale even organized a hunger strike when one prisoner was denied medical treatment. At one point, he knew that one of his fellow P.O.W.s was guilty of an infraction that would possibly lead to that prisoner's execution. His captors knew Stockdale knew who the guilty prisoner was, and tortured Stockdale without mercy. Knowing there would be more torture and fearful he would crack and give out the prisoner's name, Stockdale attempted suicide. Rather than bear the thought of one of his fellow prisoners being executed or subjected to the pain that was inflicted on him, he tried to take his own life. Stockdale's suicide attempt was unsuccessful, yet in the attempt, was the ultimate statement about Admiral James B. Stockdale, that he would rather have died than see a fellow American soldier suffer pain or death at the hands of their captors. That maybe true about GHWB, but perhaps not so about our current President. Adwarded the Congressional Medal of Honor in 1976, Admiral Stockdale died in July of 2005. Even GHWB would tell you that CVN-77 should have been named after Admiral Stockdale. 

Why isn't that in your book, Doro? On October 7th, 3 days after your book was released, you christened the USS George H.W. Bush, CVN-77. It rained that day. So much so that the ceremony was closed to the public
