Fans of the ABC-TV show "LOST" will probably be buying "Our Mutual Friend" in droves after having seen Desmond keeping it to be the "last book [I] ever [read]".  Since I did not have to buy it, having purchased a full set of Dickens years ago, I immediately set out to read it.

What a disappointment it was!  Dickens wrote it on an installment basis publishing it in a magazine over a 19 month period.  One cannot avoid a sneaking suspicion while reading it that it is, just a bit, perhaps, 'padded'.  Any good editor could have tightened it up at least 200 pages. 

Dickens' work is melodrama, but some of it is just more overwrought than is compatible with good art.  As Oscar Wilde said of 'The Old Curiosity Shop', "I simply cannot read of the death of Little Nell without laughing."  'OMF' goes quickly down to this level of bathos and remains there to the last sentence. 

Even worse is the ending.  Some endings just can't help but feel contrived; and Dickens, having gotten a large number of his characters into drastic positions, pulls so many strange- colored rabbits out of his hat that the reader simply feels cheated.

All of this may seem rather harsh from someone who was willing to shell out hundreds of dollars for "The Complete Oxford Illustrated Dickens" but I assure you that my only concern is for you, gentle reader.  Unless you are possessed of adequate time to read the whole of Dickens' oeuvre or are required to read "Our Mutual Friend", I would, instead, direct you to Dickens' far superior works:  'David Copperfield', 'Oliver Twist', 'Pickwick Papers'.  

If you are looking for 'LOST' reading material, I would refer you to 'Watership Down' (Excellent), 'The Stand' (by Stephen King, entertainment, not literature), 'The Dark Tower' series (by Stephen King, entertainment, not literature, and similar to 'Our Mutual Friend' possessed of a fatally flawed ending) or a review of philosophy like 'Locke, Rousseau and Hume'.

Namaste and Good Luck,
AKA Redemption Isle on TheFuselage.co
