It will profit the reader of this work to know that the writers of this book and their program are highly controversial in their own Reformed circles.  They are adherents of what is called the New Perspective on Paul and of a theology that seeks to diminish experiential Calvinism (think Word of God and think Holy Spirit acting in the life of an individual believer, these writers call this 'subjectivism' and deem it 'self-deception') while they seek to exalt what they term 'Mother Church' and what can only be called by its old-fashioned name: sacramentalism (a dogma that says the sacraments administered by clerics save people and the Holy Spirit can only act through the sacraments and the clerics and within the walls of a visible church).  This of course gives great worldly power to clerics and clericalism while at the same time being as wretchedly unBiblical as doctrine can be.  All of this adds up to a 'return to Rome', or, more specifically, a return to Papal authority; something they are not shy about advocating as many of the writers of this book take an active and very visible part in their new movement they term 'Reformed Catholicism'.  To be able to pull all this off and still call themselves Reformed and Calvinist the writers of this book (and of their new movement in general) utilize most of the elements of post-modern rhetoric and manipulation of reality that one will find in the halls of modern day academia.  Their writings, as this book displays richly, deny that there is an ultimate 'truth' that can be held by anybody, and hence any criticism directed at their writings and program is brushed off as 'irrelevant'.  Everything has its own context which they demand to determine in all cases.  And everything is left in parts and nothing is allowed to add up to a whole (I say 'allowed' because these writers in this new movement claim ultimate authority in all matters concerning anything and everything they write and pronounce).  This allows them to, for one thing, selectively quote Reformation theologians to support positions and doctrine Reformation theologians in many cases sacrificed their very lives opposing.  This book is one of their coming out efforts, and it is being hailed and celebrated by their followers as a momentous event.  Let the reader discern the worth of it based on more than just the 'Reformed Catholics' own demands of how people must read and regard them and their new ideas.
