I bought this book after flipping through it in a busy bookstore yesterday, and after getting it home and taking a longer look I was disappointed.

First off, when buying a book on DIY cheap decor, I would expect more than just a re-cap of episodes of the show and a biography of the team.  There are very few instructions on how to create the looks in the photos - a painted chandelier here, a college dorm memo board there, that's about it. 

It is also interesting to note that this book gives no prices per project as the show does, so you have no idea what the projects will cost.

I agree with another reviewer that, on paper and without the dismal "before" photos, the rooms are pretty lackluster. A couple of them looked like some of the theatre sets I worked on in college. Sure it's cheap decor but a little more care could be taken with the paint, upholstery and other details - this extra care doesn't cost money, only a matter of time, minutes in some cases, and the finished products would look 100% better.  The tall upholstered headboard for the guest room looked sloppiest of all, I was suprised they actually included it in the book as it looks so slap-dash.  If you're going to bother with a project aimed at making your living space more aesthetically pleasing, at least take the time to make it look good or what's the point? 

I have a lot of experience with DIY projects - my Dad is a woodworker, my husband's family runs an upholstery shop, and I am a technical theatre major.  You CAN decorate cheaply yourself and make it look like a million bucks. You don't have to be a talented artist either, it's amazing what you can put together if you have good instructions and a willingness to experiment and screw up from time to time (you can practice a new skill with a very small project and cheap materials so you don't waste a lot of money.) This book will not help you achieve the most style for your money. I would suggest finding a secret shopping deals guide for your area, so you can find the best materials possible for your budget and then find books that contain more practical information on different aspects of decorating (paint techniques, no-sew upholstery, furniture finishes, etc.) 



