In the U.K. there is an annual award for the worst written sex scene is a novel. This writer does not write novels. Whether he writes fiction is open to dispute. Be that as it may I would like to create a new award for Deeply Cheesy Concepts In A Work About A Spiritual Path. Among an embarressment of riches in this writers oeuvre, I would like to nominate the concept of....Deh deh duh deh!  "Vajra Romance!" Just repeating the words with its echos of Hello magazine, and Hollywood makes my sphincter contract in dismay. Madonna should record a song by the same title. "take a chance on Vajra Romance,
                 at the Emptiness and Form Dance (baby).
It is surely only a matter of time before Madge "reinvents" herself by abandoning an ersatz Kabbalah for an ersatz Vajrayana, and we know where she will find that dont we?
"The dance between emptiness and form " features large too.
Emptied though of any of the subtlety found in the Heart Sutra, or any indication that the writer has any understanding other than the pedestrian use to which he puts this most profound teaching. It is hard to know beneath the hip rhetoric what the vajra-hell he IS going on about. Hoever, "Emptiness And Form" seems to be reduced to an elaboration on attraction and aversion. Not that he would ever say anything so mundane, in the absence of any glimmer of understanding of Tantra, Sutra, or Dzogchen, the writer deploys to a kind of sub-Ginsberg poesy, but without the poesy. Avoid, gentle reader, read Pema Chodren. N.B. Those reviwers who say that the fact that The Aro gTer do not represent an authentic lineage does not matter are sadly mistaken. The Aro is claiming to be just that. Its relevence stands or falls on that fact. NO teacher of The Nyingma Lineage accepts them as authentic, not one, apart from the sister org. the equally spurious  Flaming Jewel Sangha. The reference in a review to Chogyam Trungpa is unfortunate, I was fortunate to receive personal teaching from Trungpa Rinpoche, and can assure those interested that a) He saw authenticity of Lineage as of absolutely paramount importance and B) He would have seen through the Aro in five seconds, and would have said so. If people want to make "jazz riffs" loosely based on certain aspects of Tibetan Buddhism, let them at least have the guts to go and found their own religion, not distort and usurp an exsisting one. An update,( august 06 original review written in 05) Madonna is reported to be indeed tiring of Kabbalah, Chogyam, this could be your year! The bigtime
