This incredibly boring and technical book deliberately skips any possible entertainment value (No kidding - she sneers at other Ziegfeld books and movies in her preface) to focus exclusively on feminist revisionism.  Instead of telling us anything personal about the showgirls, headliners or Ziegfeld himself, the whole book is viewed through a psychoanalysizing lens that echoes that familiar boogeyman story, "How The Big Bad White Man Hates You".  Every musical act is sexually sinister, every costume a deliberate put-down, and only SHE can decode what they all REALLY meant. For example: There is a picture of Anna Held donning a costume where a black mannequin is affixed to her waist, making it appear that her servant is carrying Anna around in a basket on her back.  You've probably seen variations of this costume every Halloween but I'll bet you never saw any sexual meaning behind it, did you?  Well, the author does.  She writes extensively about the significance of the mannequin being attatched to Anna's waist, giving it an imaginary sexual significance that granted Anna the alleged animal-like sexual appetite of the *lower* class black person while keeping her face attractive, clean and white for the paying audience.  Oh yeah, OBVIOUSLY.  Sort of puts those Gorilla-holding-a-man-in-a-cage costumes you've seen in a different light now, doesn't it?  But REALLY now, could she have had the mannequin sprouting from her neck?   Or her back?  As Freud reportedly once said, "Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar."  A lot of the book is like this.  A LOT OF IT.

The author reads WAY too much into this stuff, and while I'm sure some of it has a basis in fact, the rest is opinion and revisionism on a grand scale.  It's the polar opposite of equally annoying books that breathlessly claim Ziegfeld's follies to be the apex of beauty and humanity, and that we've all gone to hell in a handbasket since.  The real story lies somewhere in the middle.  Remember that if you read this book
