What has happened to the Anna Pigeon in Track of the Cat, Superior Death, Firestorm, Blind Descent, Ill Wind? That delightfully flawed character? Why has Ms. Barr been so fixated on teen angst, rednecks, drugs & their ilk? Where is the Ranger who found it sometimes "embarrassing to be human",(a line I still use from time to time). Where is all the politics between the NPS & the Forestry, before Anna was "Boss"? 

In High Country we have Anna impersonating a waitress in Yosemite NP as part of an undercover assignment. Aside from a collection of the sleaziest, foulest-mouthed characters you'd never want to meet, we have four missing teens who may or may not be victims of foul play, two chefs & an assortment of fellow waitresses who may or may not be on the level-and do we really care?

Personally, as a former die-hard Anna Pigeon fan, I feel that this is Nevada's worst Anna Pigeon yet, & it hurts to say it. As others have mentioned, she doesn't paint a very desirable picture of Yosemite-I didn't get the feeling I had been there the way I did with her earlier books. In Firestorm, I almost felt ashes on my clothing & in Blind Descent, I had that claustrophobic feeling of being trapped in small spaces & so on. Maybe it is because it was set in winter-which I would think would be a spectacular time in any National Park-it paints the whole atmosphere with brooding strokes. Nevada Barr is obviously seeing a different place than Ansel Adams saw through his camera lens! Anna always did survive planned "mishaps" in superhero fashion, but we loved her & wanted her to survive. High Country almost goes beyond superwoman! The incident with the deer was completely uncalled for. I also felt that mentioning the real life murders was in bad taste & beside the point of the story (not that there was much point.) 

This reader has gone from waiting with great anticipation for each new adventure, wondering where I'll be transported next, to ho hum; maybe I'll wait until I can get a good price on the paperback. I understand that her next book is set in Rocky Mountain NP, a park near & dear to my heart. It will be interesting to see if I recognize it. Nevada, please bring back the old Anna Pigeon-flaws & all. 
