After seeing Catherine Clinton speak on BookTV, I immediately bought her book about the wonderful former slave heroine, Harriet Tubman.  All of my life I've been a history buff, specifically American history, and even more specifically African-American history and African cultures.  I am a teacher, have completed 6 years of college and two degrees, and have always been a voracious reader.  But I was very disappointed in Ms. Clinton's book.  Her subject was exciting and extraordinary, yet the writing lacked sparkle and suspense! (It definitely did not read like a novel as the historical writer Doris Kearns stated!)  I assume the research was accurate, however the facts were linked one by one but often going into a detour so the reader easily got lost.  Also, there was too much backgound information about people Harriet Tubman had befriended for life or had briefly met. And the reader again got lost reading more about people Harriet knew than Harriet herself! Alas, I was compelled to skip paragraphs and sometimes pages.  However, I will keep this book with my reference materials if I need to check specific facts.  When I was an elementary classroom teacher, I had to do whatever it took to keep my kids interested and excited about ALL SUBJECTS MOST OF THE TIME!  I suggest to Ms. Clinton that she pretend her readers are 4th or 5th graders, so she can write clearly with sparkle and suspense, so everyone will enjoy reading her book.  I would now like to encourage readers to read slave narratives written by former slaves as well as transcriptions of 1930's tape recordings of slaves.  Also, read books by K.J. McWilliams such as The Journal of Leroy Jeremiah Jones, a Fugitive Slave (Alabama 1855) and The Journal of Darien Dexter Duff, an Emancipated Slave (Louisiana 1865).  Those two fictional books were written at the time Harriet Tubman was living, and the author included historical facts and photos in the back of the book that weren't at all boring and that I have used in my classroom!  Also, read other popular African-American historical fiction writers such as Walter Dean Myers.  In my opinion nonfiction should also be a FUN read
