I give this bread book the lowest possible rating, because it is worthless to the home baker, author comments not withstanding.  If you are already a decent bread baker and wish to be a great one, this book is absolutely essential; for the rest of us, forget it. If you have worked in a boulangerie washing pans and weighing out flour and wish to become a journeyman bread baker, or a home baker who knows what a direct method bread is and can make one without a recipe, this book is a must have.  It will show you techniques, methods, and philosophies that will make a great bread maker out of a mediocre one.  In spite of the faulty instructions, I had no trouble with the breads I tried, and found the recipes to be reliable, even when baking something for the first time.  If you already know your way around the bread kitchen and want to take the next step, this book is one of the few I know of that will get you there.  

This book is a collection of the bread making techniques the author has learned over the years from small, artisanal boulangerie in France.  The author has made the serious mistake of assuming that since these artisanal bakeries make small batches using no fancy or modern equipment, that the home bread baker can duplicate them; nothing could be farther from the truth.  Most of the recipes in the book require experience and judgment to properly execute.  

The main value of this book is as a repository of recipes and methods for high quality and flavorful breads as practiced by hard working bakers laboring away in small, neighborhood boulageries.  It is a good antidote to the fluffy, flavorless mass-produced breads you will find in supermarkets both in this country and France.  Many bakers have become famous using the recipes in this book, and only a small portion of the recipes have been commercially exploited; in this, there is much potential.  Astonishingly, there is a collection of 4 dozen professional, ready to use commercial baking recipes; these are valuable recipes collected from some very famous and very successful boulangeries in France.  In fact, most of the recipes in the first part of the book are scaled down versions of these professional bread recipes, which the author has adapted with varying success.  Even here, however, the author has erred by not making the ingredient tables consistent; a few are in baker's percentage, but not all, the english and metric amounts are not always equivalent (something the author could easily have fixed by spending a few minutes with a calculator; as is, you have figure it yourself and scribble the correct numbers in the page margins). 

One significant problem is that the author starts throwing around important terms, like levain, sourdough, starter, sponge, or poolish, without explaining the meaning of the various terms; indeed, in some cases the author uses these terms incorrectly.  An experienced baker will be able to know the difference, but not the typical home cook trying to make bread.  The author also commits the ultimate baking sin: measuring flour in cups and not weight, even worse not telling you how that flour is measure.  A cup of flour can weigh anything from 3 to 5 ounces, depending on how you measure it.  The difference is between great bread and an awful disaster.  It also would have been nice to have a recipe listing in the table of contents or chapter headings, as there really are not that many recipes in the book.  

It has chapters on ingredients, leavening, procedures, France, Italy, Germany, U.S., professional, and bread sculpture.  


