I purchased Eldredge's "Wild at Heart", and I didn't think it was scripturally sound. I was given "Waking the Dead" as a present, so I tried to read it as well. I finally gave it up. 

John Eldredge's writing is typical of today's movement to bring the world into the church. Trying to show a young Christian the religious aspects of movies like "The Matrix" may work, but to my 48 year old ears it rings very hollow. Perhaps it boils down to how much you will dilute Christ's message to get people to listen. For better or worse, I have little patience for it. 

The author also presents the image of God as "my friend". To me this is nothing but another watering down of the Gospel message to get the world to accept it. Giving the Creator human attributes brings Him down to a level where we can work things out between us. I can't find that kind of relationship in any legitimate Bible translation. After all, my friend wouldn't let my saintly mother die, and save a worthless drug addict now would he? God my friend probably wouldn't have sent His Son to die for my worthless self anyway. 

This is exactly the same theology as building the largest "Christian" church in the United States, and not putting any crosses in it so as not to "offend anyone". It's the same as getting on a nationally televised program, and stuttering about whether you believe those who don't accept Christ are doomed to hell. When you profess to be a Christian minister or author and you can't speak correctly of what Christianity teaches, it's time to examine just what you really believe. God's word is not always easy to swallow. Either it's the truth or it isn't. 

Mr. Eldredge also speaks often of "setting hearts free". While I do believe hearts are free when released from sin, a Christian is bought and paid for with Christ's blood and not "free" at all. Titus 1 (KJ) begins, "Paul, a servant of God,and an apostle of Jesus Christ"...Christians ARE freed, but to begin a life of service. 

For a more accurate and fulfilling study, I recommend "The Way of the Master" books and videos by Ray Comfort/Kirk Cameron. 
