		This is a book by a chronic kicker, someone who frequently cites Emile Zola but who has all the relevance of "a young contrarian" wallowing in what is otherwise known as the terrible twos.

	Don't get me wrong:  Hitchens is very self-important, his targets range from President Clinton to Mother Teresa, which earned him an interview with Vatican authorities in a "closed room, a Bible, a tape-recorder, a Monsignor, a Deacon and a Father."  He spent years attacking Clinton, and was finally thrilled when someone noted his piffle.  But, this molehill of courage doesn't write a word in this book about President Geoge Bush.

	He says it's courageous and vital to dissent.  Nice.  Welcome to an idea that has been celebrated since John Milton and the First Amendmant to the US Constitution.  To guard his own brilliance, he doesn't cite a single example of the how, when, where, why and what of anyone he's criticized.  His book is supposed to be "the art of mentoring," but he limits it to praise of his own courage, insight, wit and relevance.

	Granted, Hitchens is a rare talent;  his unique ability is being outrageous without being effective.  He doesn't cite a single example of his dissonance doing diddly squat.  He offers feel-good whines, moans and complaints, but nothing constructive.  It's why late-night TV talk show monologues are the epitome of today's political commentary, humour, satire and relevance.

	He consistently attacks political compromise, praising "fanatics and absolutists like John Brown, who regarded compromise as a disgrace."  So  --  was Abraham Lincoln a second-rate president compared to a John Brown?  This reflects the great weakness of this book:  Hitchens doesn't understand the difference between dissent and dissonance.

	There's a good reason why Hitchens is inconsequential compared to dissent such as Zola, Vaclav Havel and even Tom Lehrer  --  this rant is always safe, tame and respectable.  It's a perfect Hallowe'en gift, a fierce rubbery face meant to produce a shriek, a laugh and a comment, "Oh, how clever!"  It's great sport for the two-year-old mentality.

	"Most people, most of the time, prefer to seek approval or security," Hitchens writes.  This is his meagre attempt at respectability;  he does so by citing great dissenters and basking in their reflected courage, glory and relevance.  He falls far short of being a court jester, lacking the wit, wisdom, wiles and wariness to be relevant.

Sadly, but not unexpectedly, he misses the mark
