What a big lie. These book is well written, but dont believe modern DNA technology. Nobody can find in  over 200 years dry hearth DNA. Nobody. My ancestors belong to famous Clovis- Habsburg-Bourbon blood line, and I can tell you these, that I was told from my persecuted Royal ancestors. LOUIS XVII body was never find after the French Revolution. Here is why. In the final days in confuse finale drama of Revolution days, LOUIS XVII was taken away at night by than famous Austro-Hungarien Count Esterhazy secrely to Hungary, where he lived happily after under different name, and never-ever wanted to return to France, that murdered his royal family. Count Esterhazy was a friend of Marie Antoinette, and he promise her that he will save her son secretly the Incognito way, when he visited her few times in her jail, in Consiergerie prison. And he did save him, paying huge amount in gold to his jailers. LOUIS XVII after his escape, never wanted to be a part of Franch system, and for security reasons, wanne live his life as a Incognito for the rest of his life. He never forgive French people, what they done to his family, and ask God for final judgements on his death bed.  I visited  Budapest, Vienna, Versailles and Paris many times, and with the psychic powers of my Astrologer  help, he lead me to places where LOUIS XVII was most happy, in his Palace and Gardens of Versailles, the most beautiful Palace in the  world, that was build by his and my ancestors. DNA is a lie, becuase someone wanne to close doors on LOUIS XVII case forever in a state interests. LOUIS XVII had chidren in Hungary, and today there is LOUIS XXII, that never wanne be a King, Prince or none of any titles that world would like to give Him. By killing his family, and taking everything that belong to his family, and Him, it destroy his desire forever to be a King again. What a price one must pay to be a King of one conutry. Nobody could undrestand that better than Him. And he understood that, by living away from World Attention, in seclution and meditation until his death in one of Count Esterhazy House
