I must begin my review by stating that I am a reader of all memoirs because I find them to be healing for the soul. The best memoirs are honest accounts, whether the truth is devastating, beautiful or just plain boring.

I bought 'A Piece of Cake' because the rave reviews and because it was becoming available in paperback. After finishing 'A Piece of Cake', I must be honest that it is one of the worst memoirs I have ever had the misfortune of reading. The writing seemed to be done by a grade schooler: repetitive, juvenile and inconsistent - but this is not the reason the book is so bad. 'A Piece of Cake' is not a good read because I just don't believe 90% of what Miss Brown wrote.

I believe bad things can happen to a child in foster care, that kids in the ghetto get caught up in the gang lifestyle and addicts have a lot of interesting stories to tell. The reason I don't believe Miss Brown is that there is no honesty in her literary voice. Her stories are built from rusty crumbs and do not hold solid.

There are so many instances in the book that don't hold up to the light, but the most glaring untruth seems to be that the state of California would award custody of Miss Brown and her brother to their biological father and at the same time pay state dollars to a foster parent for their care. This especially seems untrue since there were other blood relatives who wished to take on the responsibility of caring for Miss Brown and her brother without the state's money. Since the whole book is based on this foundation, the whole story crumbles.

After reading 'A Piece of Cake', it is my feeling that Miss Brown was faced with many hardships in her young life and chose a road of self-destruction. She was able to climb out of the gutter and this is always a wonderful thing, but it does not necessarily mean that one's story should be made into a book.

Cupcake Brown obviously has many devoted fans of her book and I'm in the minority with my criticism. However, I stand by my review 100%.

Some memoirs that I highly recommend are:

'The Glass Castle: A Memoir' by Jeannette Walls
'Ava's Man' by Rick Bragg
'Angela's Ashes' by Frank McCourt
'Blackbird : A Childhood Lost and Found' by Jennifer Lauck
'Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith' & 'Operating Instructions' by Anne Lamott (or anything else by Anne Lamott)
'Running with Scissors: A Memoir' by Augusten Burroughs
'Naked' by David Sedari
