Emily Stanton had the world at her feet - which is quite extraordinary for a young woman living in 1920's Australia. She has the opportunity to study at Cambridge, but turns this enlightened option down to marry Georges; a Scottsman who is competing in the Sydney bridge competition. Emily is enticed by George's life in Paris and is also eager to overcome the pain of indecisions which have been troubling her since finishing school. So, she marries him and moves to Paris. 
But Emily's life takes a sudden dip when they arrive back in Paris; she finds her husband totally engrossed in his work and she feels completely isolated. She becomes close with one of George's friends, Antoine but is still uneasy about her new life. Emily finds herself travelling around the world to Tunsia where she may just find her purpose....

This is an excruciating book to read. The book's downfall can be marked when Emily and Georges go to meet his mother in Chartres; while exploring the cathedral there, Emily meets a priest... and in the whopping 15 minutes since they lay eyes on one another, she is breaking her wedding vowels and having her very first affair. The reason behind this sudden surge of lust is not explained in the writing, and while the encounter has huge repercussion's for Emily, the reader is left feeling that the heat of passion was merely a catalyst for the rest of the book; an unexplained catalyst which is very spontaneous, unbeliveable and quite frankly, stupid. 

Honestly, dont read this book. Just, dont. There is hardly any internal monologue and the endless descriptions of everything but the characters thoughts and feelings leave them as one-dimensional, soulless and uninteresting. This lack of attention makes the reader very frustrated; especially when the character's have long-winded speeches which dont sound at all natural, more like lectures, and pop up out of nowehere, amidst pages and pages of boring and irritating descriptions of the settings.

The character of Emily is built up but falls extremely short in reality; while at school she apparently topped the class in History (atleast that's what Miller repeats over and over and over again. Its really quite hilarious after a while because anyone reading this novel can see Emily is an absolute dim-wit.

I really had to trudge through this novel, and try not to lose grip by hurling the book across the room and stomping on it. How this was shortlisted for any prize anywhere in the world is beyond me... its utterly horrid.
