I read this book and was appalled at the slanted agenda it had. Are omissions lies? If so, this book is a huge lie and here is why; I served in F Company, 51st LRP (Airborne) Infantry and I am the author of the book 'I SERVED.' We were the military field Intel performing recon and ambush in six and 12-man teams that watching the enemy's movements throughout the Saigon II Field Forces AO (area of operation) to the Cambodian border. We were the eyes and ears for IIFFV directly under General Fred Weyand who started up this 200-man strong shock, Ranger type, LRP unit in September 1967. 

On Jan. 3, 1968, one of our recon teams captured a high-ranking VC officer who was carrying a map of the upcoming Tet 1968 Offensive that matches other military Intel that was coming in. Gen. Frederick Weyand laid out some great plans to hammer the enemy, but you'd have to read my book to get those facts.

The objective of the Army was not to run around a blab everything to news reporters that there was a huge attack coming! We were there to stave off the enemy's aggression in South Vietnam. LBJ had led General Westmoreland to believe that he could jump off from Khe Sanh once the North Vietnamese broke the cease-fire during Tet 1968 and cut off the Ho Chin Minh trail in Loas. President LBJ not only lied to the military he lied to the American people in his failure to set the records straight about Tet 1968, but he was bored and burnt out by this time! Walter Cronkite came out with his statements of what our government should do in Vietnam. You can see the same happening with today's reporters talking about the military with the War on Islam. How many of these reporters served in the military? NONE, but my goodness they know everything don't they?!

The South Vietnamese soldiers were allowed leave during Tet in order that they would defend their own hamlets, towns and cities with Hue being the only failure.

If you ever want a real military failure on your hands tell a news reporter or some 200 US Army colonels gathered for a party in Saigon that this author seem to take as a total and compete failure of Tet 1968 because none of these colonels knew what was coming!
 
The final straw that broke the credibly of this author's book is his not mentioning what harm Saint Walter Cronkite did during Tet 1968. Cronkite was sent to visit Gen. Weyand after his visit to Hue and told General Weyand that he had a good story of how the enemy were slaughtered in open fields starting at 0106 hours, long before the first rockets fell at 0300 hours in Saigon region, but he was going with the story of the thousands of bodies that he saw in and around Hue. Those bodies were those of Vietnamese reporters, school teachers, lawyers, doctors and anyone who wore eyeglasses and, of course, the hit list that the Commies had.

Don't waste your money of this book. It is very slanted and I bet the author was a journalist at one time or another with this book making out that the Military is "BAD!" News reports are "GOOD" and other such BS.
