TOUCH OF THE WOLF is a pedestrian effort.  The story - about an American werewolf who goes to England to find her family - is choppy, with holes here and there in the plot, quotes way too much poetry, and is cast with characters who aren't that interesting.  The heroine, Cassidy, is not very endearing - she's irritatingly nave (my eyeballs are rolling right now) and is way too desperate to find love.  She also fixates on Braden right from the start, though I don't know why exactly, other than he is the first werewolf she meets.  I thought Braden was more flushed out a character than Cassidy or his two siblings. His handicap was promising, though there seemed to be a lot of moments in the book where, superhuman senses aside, the author seemed to forget he WAS handicapped.  The story also seemed to suffer from moody melodrama and a need to make a secret out of EVERYTHING.  I understand that TOUCH OF THE WOLF is the first of a trilogy, the other two books following the stories of Braden's siblings (an annoying ice queen named Rowena and a cowardly trickster named Quentin).  I'm not quite sure I want to bother with their stories.  The reason I read TOUCH OF THE WOLF is because I adored TO CATCH A WOLF, which is about Cassidy's brother, Morgan.  I'm pretty disappointed that Cassidy's story was so dopey.  Oh well.   

Update as of Jan 4, 2005: I just read a young adult novel called BLOOD AND CHOCOLATE that dealt with many of the same topics as TOUCH OF THE WOLF, including real-life issues such as fitting in, dealing with the loss of family, etc., as well as werewolf issues like determining the leader of the pack and the rules associated with breeding/mating.  I have to say the teen book, BLOOD AND CHOCOLATE, was a lot more sophisticated than TOUCH OF THE WOLF in every respect and was a much more engaging read.  BLOOD AND CHOCOLATE was shorter and set in modern times with a angst-filled heroine and, while it didn't have the full-blown love scenes found in a romance novel, it had a sexually-tense love triangle that was fun and exciting to read about
