I don't know why this book is getting such good reviews. Perhaps these other customers are meat heads? I don't know what book THEY read, but this book is simply NOT GOOD! 

This book was backed by a steroid website, and as such, the information is of VERY POOR QUALITY! This book is a cheap money-making scheme. THERE ARE WEB SITE ADVERTISEMENTS IN THIS BOOK! They actually have the nerve to refer to the book readers as their web site members! Every chapter has a footer that is a blatant advertisement for their website! There is actually an entire chapter on beating steroid tests, which is NOTHING MORE THAN AN ADVERTISEMENT for one single product. The product web site is then listed throughout the entire book, in addition to the steroid web site I already mentioned. I honestly feel tricked.

This book follows the trend of the steroid industry. Meaning, IT IS BIASED INFORMATION that is 25% useful and 75% bull. It's like reading a forum member's excited review of a product and then finding out that he works for the company that makes that product. I cannot responsibly accept the information in this book as completely factual. 

Summary:
This book is unprofessional. It hasn't been edited or proofread. There are countless spelling, grammar, and sentence structure errors. The information contradicts itself and seems to be taken directly from internet forums. The author is merely a self-proclaimed authority on the topic, when in reality, he's just another careless abuser with little-to-no respect or regard for safety. He brags about volunteering his body to test experimental underground laboratory steroids, as if he is some kind of fearless pioneer in the world of steroids. There is virtually NO focus on PCT (post-cycle treatment), and the "stacks" he proposes are mostly useless. The first "cycle" he recommends is 500mg of test for 12 weeks. That's it? That's why I bought this "ultimate research guide?" You can find sample stacks/cycles online... better ones. This whole book reminds me of my high school research papers: no substance, no new information, mostly filler, and ultimately I just don't care who reads it as long as I get credit for it. You can learn just as much by eaves-dropping in a locker room. THIS IS NOT INTELLIGENT INFORMATION! I bought this book to fill in the details of my personal steroid research... it failed to do so. 

Content Quality:
This book is VERY POORLY written. The entire book is riddled with spelling errors, grammatical errors, and nonsensical sentences. Paragraphs don't flow together and if I didn't know any better, I'd say 90% of this book is cut-and-pasted from steroid forums. You may not think these details are important, but this book is so bad, the information integrity is actually compromised. Here's an example:

"Product X has very high anabolic properties, with mild anabolic properties."

Now, clearly one of those "anabolic" should have been "androgenic," but which one?  

Completeness:
On the back of this book, there is a bulleted list of topics that suggest the extend of the information inside. IT IS NOT ACCURATE! Despite the entries "Buying Steroids" and "Injection Techniques," the available information is limited to about 1 page for each. Meanwhile, the Profiles sections take up over 95% of the pages. 

Basically, the ONLY useful information in this book is the profiles. I will say that the list of steroids is quite extensive. Although, I'm not sure how useful this really is. I guess if you stumbled upon some rare, exotic steroid and wanted to know about it, this book would be a good place to start. Each profile is about half a page of scientific stats (molecular weight, anabolic:androgenic ratios, recommended dose, etc.) followed by VERY INFORMAL descriptions of the specified steroid. The information is "forum-quality."  By that I mean it isn't based on any science, but rather the general opinion of the bodybuilding community. You mean the same community that is rating this TERRIBLE BOOK with 5 stars? 

There is no reason for this book to be so expensive, and there is no reason why it's being rated so well. If you are new to steroid research, perhaps the apparent comprehensiveness is impressive. If you are looking for quality information... DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK. If you are looking for information on steroids with an emphasis on safety... DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK. This book should be thought of only as a directory of specific steroids and their properties. If that's what you need... there is a free copy of this book on its way to my landfill.

