This assessment of pre-Israel Palestine is best read in tandem with Prof. Yehoshua Porath's article in the spring 2000 issue of Azure. Segev claims here that the British came to rule Palestine with no clear idea of what they wanted. Segev supposes that a well-organized Arab nationalist movement, vigorously opposed to British rule, mounted the murderous Arab "revolt" of 1936-1939 and forced Britain to conclude it had no interest in Palestine and should leave. These ideas are ridiculous.

Why it took the British until 1948 to leave, Segev does not explain. As to voluminous evidence that the British stirred up Arab nationalism and the anti-Semitic revolt and joined in fighting the Arab's first war against Israel (as accounted by Col. R. Meinertzhagen, Samuel Katz, and many others), Segev keeps silent. Nor does he note that British general John Glubb commanded the Transjordanian army. 

Segev asks political questions. 1) Why did the British conquer Palestine? 2) Why did they commit in 1917 to establish a Jewish National Home? 3) Why did they stay in Palestine? 4) Why did the British leave? 

But Segev derides official British papers as too tiresome and voluminous to read. Segev bases his conclusions entirely on gleanings from diaries, personal letters, articles and books written by local Britons, Arabs and Jews, none previously consulted by historians--probably because they describe the social scene, not politics. The resultant fiction on Mandatory Palestine repeats the old Arnold Toynbee canard that Britain promised Palestine twice. 

This conclusion is also ridiculous: Better accounts (which Segev ignores) are provided by scholars like Howard Sachar (History of Israel); Efraim Karsh (Empires of the Sand); Elie Kedourie (In the Anglo-Arab Labyrinth; Chatham House Version); David Fromkin (A Peace to End All Peace) and Conor C. O'Brien (The Siege); Samuel Katz (Battleground) and Bat Ye'or (Islam and Dhimmidtude: Where Civilizations Collide). 

The worst aspect of Segev's work is his failure to note that Britain's conquest of Palestine was part of a calculated political and military strategy to establish a land bridge between the Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf. This, the British intended to enable their rapid deployment of troops to the Gulf, defend the Empire's vast East Indian interests, protect their territories from Russian invasion, and to provide an alternative to and protection of Egypt's Suez Canal. Segev claims that "[The British] gave [Palestine] to the Zionists because they loved 'the Jews' even as they loathed them" and feared them. He also posits that the British were guided something other than strategic considerations, and lacked an "orderly decision-making process." (p. 33) Good grief. Even if this were true (which it isn't) Segev hardly disproves the importance of the land bridge as the driving force behind British policy. 

Segev also minimizes the importance and effect of Britain's 1939 White Paper, which slowed immigration of Jews to Palestine--mandated by the League of Nation in 1922, with international support--to a trickle. Britain trapped Europe's Jews inside Nazi-controlled Europe, denying them their one viable escape hatch. Segev, however, suggests that the White Paper had no practical result, since even the quota established was not filled. But how could it have been filled, when obtaining papers became so difficult in the aftermath of the White Paper? Honestly.

The White Paper exponentially increased the difficulty to European Jews of getting immigration papers, according to account after Holocaust survivor account, as well as work by esteemed Holocaust scholars such as David Wyman (Abandonment of the Jews). Besides refusing to consider a plan to save Europe's Jews, the British deployed 100,000 troops and a large armada in Palestine and the Mediterranean to capture Jews escaping from Europe and return them to that hell--policies the White Paper spelled out. Britain intended to limit Jewish immigration, and did so very effectively. 

Once Britain opened Palestine Mandate and foreign office records, decades later, historians discovered that all correspondences concerning wartime immigration into Palestine, among other items, had mysteriously disappeared. In other words, Segev discounts the fact that British officials, obviously mortified post facto by their inhumane actions in 1939 and after, destroyed all especially damning evidence. Segev ignores the fact that the British in London and Palestine well understood the effects of their White Paper policy on European Jews. Segev's thesis does not square with the facts. 

Segev also gives short shrift to the 7-nation Arab attack on Israel upon her 1948 founding, belying the Arab intention to destroy the Jewish state. Arab League Secretary General Azzam Pasha in 1948 promised "a war of extermination," "a momentous massacre" to be remembered "like the Mongolian massacres and the Crusades"-and gruesome acts followed. Israel lost 6,373 persons in the war, more than twice Arab losses--and nearly 1% of her population. Of these Israeli casualties, 600 were noncombatants abused, mutilated beyond recognition and decapitated by Arab captors, who were assisted by British military aide and blockades that turned a blind eye to illegal Arab gun-running. 

Segev doesn't concern himself with the violence that preceded the 1947-8 war, who started hostilities--or why. He doesn't ask who needed to mount defenses or state the casualties on both sides. These is nothing here concerning British participation on the Arab side. In 1947, Israel accepted partition of less than 20% of the land allotted by the League of Nations in 1922 as a National Home for the Jews, while the Arabs begrudged Israel even that. 

Much as I love books, this is one that deserves to be heaved out with the bathwater.

--Alyssa A. Lappe
