I read this book because it says it was a best seller, and the author is supposed to be one of the best at suspense.  With those expectations I was disappointed.  The author relies on gimmicks - like ultra short chapters to make it seem like you're reading faster.  Each chapter is 1 or 2 pages with at least one blank page between, so what looks like a 400 page books is really only a 250 page short novel.  One chapter is literally a cliff-hanger.

The plot's sort of a rehash of H.G. Wells' Island Of Dr. Moreau, borrowing a bit from X-Men comic books.  The mutants are all children who can fly, and they're severely persecuted by their keepers, so perhaps what makes the book appealing to other readers is the suspense derived from the endangered children angle, another cheap gimmick.  

The villains are all one-dimensional stereotypes, blindly abandoning all their principles and humanity to profit off the children.  I could point out numerous flaws in style as well - but that's not the point; you could find flaws in better books too.  The point is the book is overrated for hack writing of less quality than many old pulp magazines I've read.  Even the love scenes are corny and seem like one of those cheap romance novels ("My arms were high and tight around his neck.  He pulled me against him and I felt him, all of him, against my thigh . . ."). The author also doesn't seem to understand the geography & terrain of the area he's writing about (for example, a small Sony TV won't receive Denver channels in Gunnison National Forrest, certainly not well enough to recognize faces in long shots as the author describes), and has some weird ideas of horror ("Chain link fence and concertina wire and guard dogs in the middle of the woods were scary enough, but to see the words "U.S. Government" attached to "Trespassers Will Be Shot" made me ill.").  Much more like this is topped off with a liberal dose of hypocrisy:  "The arrogance and amorality of the scientists working here affronted everything I believed in.  I wanted to find one of 'them' and strangle the person with my bare hands." 

This is the last time I'll buy a book because it says "best seller."  If you want to read a well-written sci-fi suspense novel in which the protagonist is a child prodigy, I recommend The Fourth R by George O. Smith (ISBN 1557429332 - Also known as The Brain Machine, ISBN 0824014308)
