This is a bad, bad, bad, bad book.  It isn't about how to write stories - it's a motivation book.   It's also a commiserating companion for the struggling writer who can't come up with anything and doesn't know why.  This book is a perfect example of what's wrong with most writing books out there.  

Sound harsh?  Well, maybe.  But a book on writing should teach one how to write a decent story - not push tired, pseudo-mystical ideas like:  "the story just sort of takes shape on its own".  This isn't any help.  In fact, it's worse than "no help" - it's hurtful because it encourages an aspiring writer to stay ignorant of the craft - the CRAFT - of storytelling.  

Stephen Koch clearly doesn't understand what makes a good story , or how a good story is written.  His advice is ludicrous, amounting to gems like: "Stories make themselves known, they reveal themselves - even to their tellers - only by being told.  You may ask how on earth you can tell a story before you know it.  You do that by letting the emerging story tell itself through you."

What a bunch of malarkey!  To claim that a that a story exists "somewhere" and all the writer has to do is "find it" is probably the stupidest thing I've read.  It's like saying a sculpture exists and the welder just has to find it.  Or that the painted masterpiece is already painted - you just have to let it come through you.  

Nonsense.  A story doesn't exist until someone CREATES it.  And Stephen Koch either doesn't know that, or doesn't know how one creates a story.  His advice "let the story tell itself through you" is very, very bad.  Would you tell an aspiring cabinet-maker to "just let the cabinet come THROUGH you?"  No!  The guy would probably make the ugliest cabinet ever.  Either that or he would saw his fingers off because he didn't know what he was doing.  He would waste time, effort, and money - which is what YOU'LL do if you buy this book.  

Now I recognize that storytelling is a tad different from cabinetmaking.  But they both have principles one must follow in order to succeed.  A good cabinet must be balanced, sturdy, and square.  A good story must have characters, conflict, and ultimately show us something universal about life in an emotional way. 

What's more, Stephen Koch's advice is really nothing more than a collection of tired advice from writers more successful than him.  He quotes Stephen King and Ray Bradbury frequently, as well as just about any other big-name writer he can, whenever they have a quote he can lift and use to support his view.  It's hard to say if he's learned anything on his own, or is just parroting advice he's read in other books.  

Also - This book is called "The Modern Library Writer's Workshop" but you'll find nothing at all like a workshop, unless you count the occasional gripe from a struggling writer.  There is VERY little craft mentioned in here, and most everything Koch talks about is in vague generalities.  Most workshops would have you do exercises or assignments.  Not here.  That's fine, but one of the best ways to get someone writing is to give them a push in the right direction.  Beginning books on woodworking (sorry for the continued comparison) often give the plans for a small box or stool that the beginner can hone his skills on before moving on to complicated pieces of furniture. 

It stands to reason that a writer might be better off trying to write short stories before he or she tries to tackle a novel.  But Koch has no such advice.  

In conclusion, stay far, far away from this book.  I bought it on a whim because I didn't have enough time or opportunity to really look at it.  But I'm sorry I bought it now.  Save your money and look elsewhere. 
