Tonight I saw Mr. Chopra on television.  I was stunned at seeing a man who hardly looked healthy never mind younger or ageless!!!  Common folks, put two and two together.  Why can't he produce the effects he promises and makes you pay for such empty promises.  My Dr. friend was correct about Chopra finding a way to milk folks for tons of money!

The shocking part was the man who carries an air of such lofty spirituality displayed little spirituality on the TV.  He was not only bloated looking but so was his attitude, full of criticism for Western thought, Christianity, America's foreign policy etc.  I am not saying we are perfect or there isn't room for criticism but he was full of criticism with nothing good to say about what is worth acknowleging at the Western culture.  He had to set himself up as the one voice of enlightenment....it sells more books, healing appts, lecturers, etc. 

I copied a portion of what another reviewer wrote because it shows the level of superiority in attitude and the traversty of such actions upon real dialouge, the kind of arrogance that came across by Chopra on tv tonight. Before finishing want to say,  It's ok to want to make a fortune only don't wear false spirituality to do so. In the early 70's I went to the Marharishi (?) Meditation Center in NY where they charged $200 for the mantra, the same mantra they undoubtedly recycled a billizion times, asking the initiate not to share the secret mantra!  I was so young and naive.  Then there was Baghwan (?) with the fleet of Roll Royces and a hefty bank acct. He had followers hand over the deeds to their homes for the price of enlightenment, of course they did so willing based on what they were made to believe! That guy feed into the human desire of some, to let go and feel it was ok to do whatever they want...endless sex, drugs etc...no judgment. All this done in the name of being more spiritual, enlightened than the rest of us! Chicanery comes in many forms, only in searching for the NEW often people ignore the obvious deception that is right in front of them. End

"Having worked with a large number of cancer patients through the years, following their fears and struggles, it seems like an insult to ordinary humble workers to say "Reprogram your quantum mind and get rid of the cancer". If Chopra could show one case of a person who could do this, including himself, I`d be willing to change my view of this as a condescending way to treat suffering humans who need compassion and good palliative care, not easy solutions that give the responsibility to the patient, whereas the doctor stands with no soil of the human factor on his hands. This is a travesty of the Hippocratic ideal, and will strengthen the view of alternative doctors as superficial, money-loving peddlers of false hopes. 1 star rating is inevitable, I hate to say. Luckily, there are many good sources of the same knowledge that Chopra embezzles. (Hope I haven`t been too harsh, I have no wish to attack Chopra, but I wish to strengthen a more substantial approach to the issues of aging, health and dying).
