This epic work is currently being referenced repeatedly as a cautionary tale of what the U.S. should be careful of in Iraq.  Superlatives like "history at its best", "an all-time classic" and "superbly accurate" are being tossed around carelessly to describe Alistair Horne's history.

In fact, it remains a remarkably racist work loved by State Department officials and neocons alike - similar, but not quite on par with, the racial hatred on display in that other State Department favourite, The Arab Mind, by Raphael Patai.

In this work, Alistair Horne describes in gory detail atrocities committed by the FLN, or Algerian nationalist rebels, while skimming over far worse atrocities committed by the nice white-guy French.  

Atrocities are not to be ranked, measured, and compared, but Horne's bias becomes transparent when he describes in detail and over several pages the killing of 100 French - a tragic and ugly incident, no doubt - but then blithely mentions in passing, without flesh-and-blood detail, that the French killed 6,000 Algerians in response.  Six thousand!  Most of these were summary executions of unarmed prisoners, a common French tactic, and many thousands of the civilians murdered were toddlers and elderly women.

This is but a glimpse into the sick mind of Alistair Horne, who manages somehow to see the French as victims.  He deplores the damage to the French psyche caused by their torture of thousands of Algerian civilians, without once considering the damage the torture had on Algerians, the actual people being tortured.  

Horne makes cursory mentions of barbaric acts committed by the French but never draws the conclusion that French society itself may have been perverse, twisted, or morally sick.  Yet, he has no hesitation in expressing that Algerians' behaviour proves that they are somehow subhuman, or less human, than Europeans.

In short, this is a good book to read to understand how once upon a time the French, like the Americans today, felt themselves infallible, civilised, and racially superior to Arab and other "primitive" peoples.  It is an illusion that must be fought.

Another reviewer on this site mentions that Horne's book covers "Islamic terrorism", but no such phrase is to be found in his book.  Contrary to what most Americans believe today, so-called "Islamic terror" is not an eternal and everlasting feature of the modern world; in 1977, when Horne wrote this work, there had yet been no Iranian revolution, no Soviet invasion of Afghanistan (and hence no al-Qaida), no Israeli occupation of south Lebanon (and hence no Hizbullah), and no Israeli-supported creation of Hamas as a counterweight to the secular PLO.  Therefore, no such concept of "Islamic terrorism" existed in Horne's mind or in any other person's mind in 1977.  It is a failing of the human mind to write current events into history; American journalists employ it as their favourite agitprop tactic.



