In a world desperate for health solutions, the uneducated masses flock to purported cures and aids that have  not met the tests of either scientific or medical validity.  Alkaline water is one of those potholes that the unsuspecting customer encounters.

Careful research of this book and related topics finds that the real reason alkaline water is popular is that in pregnant Oriental women, it is believed that the use of alkaline water increases the probablility of a boy rather than a girl being born.  Hence the seven(7) percent utilization of this water in that part of the world.  

Elsewhere, mycocardia problems with controlled animal tests using alkaline water have been known since 1996 but are suspiciously avoided by the Japanese organizations which promote alkaline water.

Common sense nutrition tells us that if one is concerned about acidic food intake, then the use of alkaline foods with alkaline fibre and neutral pH liquid is the answer.  

Alkaline promoters would have you dilute your sensitive blood pH with  high alkalinity thus inducing hematological problems which may put  you in the emergency room as my medic(1985 Nobel Prize recipient) clearly points out.

You might as well drink battery acid he said, the result will be the same stress on your blood pH.  Here is a medic who is not an expert in water but in internal medicine cautioning against forced dilution of blood pH.

He continued by saying that when that much alkalinity is added to the digestive system, the very low pH which naturally occurs in the disgestive tract is neutralized and food is not metabolized properly.  The various amino acids which are essential in the metabolic process are no longer effective and food putrifies and nutrition suffers.

The alkaline promoters, including this book's author have been sniffing glue in a closed closet and are simply out of touch with  even the very basics of body chemistry and metabolic processes.

Read the book for entertainment and not for education and utility in your daily nutritional program
