Ramesh Ponnuru lays out a simple premise -- that one may see a fetus as either a baby or an appendix -- and that if one thinks of the fetus as a baby, an absolutist anti-abortion position must follow. To his credit Ponnuru lays out more than a simple polemic, but one of the best coherent argument offered by his side.  However, in so doing he also demonstrates the weakness of his position.

So called pro-life intellectuals like to compare themselves to 19th Century abolitionists.  In this schema men like Ponnuru imagine themselves as John Brown, scoffing at moderates as wishy-washy and not recognizing the reality of the situation.  Thus Brown raised up the gun in order to do what he could to end slavery.  But Ponnuru for all his bluster does not take the argument, that abortion  is the identical to infanticide, to its logical conclusion.  Thus Ponnuru shrinks from the idea that women having abortions should be prosecuted as murderers.  Why?  The author offers no good answer to the question, for surely he would believe in prosecuting a woman killing her child after birth.  John Brown engaged in no such equivocation.  One might engage in a simple thought experiment.  In a building, people bring their unwanted infants to be drowned.  Do you simply stand outside screaming and waving shocking pictures, or do you lay down your life and liberty to prevent this horrible act?  If even a large minority of Americans really thought that a fetus was the same as a child they would want to follow the course of several Latin nations and impose stiff criminal penalties against the child's mother who "aids and abeds" this imagined murder.   

This in the end proves the undoing of the author's argument.  His initial position that a fetus is a baby or an appendix offers a false choice that most people reject.  Ponnuru may offer the best argument has to offer, but in the end it serves to demonstrate that common sense, that a fetus is a unique instance with great ethical complexity, remains where most people stand.  Still, for those interested in the anti-abortion position, this work offers a fine example of their best arguments.  

