Dashiel Hammett, author of such classics as THE MALTESE FALCON and THE THIN MAN, certainly deserves credit as one of the originators of the noir genre. Unfortunately RED HARVEST doesn't live up to this reputation.

	RED HARVEST starts with the Continental Op arriving in the mining town of Personville (sometimes called Poisonville). He has been hired by the editor of the local paper, who turns up dead. This editor is also the son of mining magnate Elihu Willsson, who had called in a collection of hooligans to break a strike. What he had not foreseen was the inevitability the criminals would take over the town. 

	Originally I had the idea the "red" in the title had something to do with the socialist workers movement or the Wobblies, a logical assumption since Hammett was a communist, but Hammett settles for the obvious, the red meaning murder after murder as  the Continental Op turns the criminals against each other.

	A blurb on the back of the book lauds Hammett for "sharply and economically defined" characters. They're sharply defined all right, so sharply defined that they all run together. Pete the Finn, Lew Yard, Max Thaler and Noonan, the chief of police, could be the same character. At the beginning of the novel, the Continental Op learns the history of conflict from Bill Quint, an I.W.W. organizer from Chicago, but that's pretty much the last we hear from him. 

	About the only interesting character in the whole book is the femme fatale, Dinah Brand, but her sole motivation seems to be money.

	Hammett also has problems with resolution of conflict. When painted into a corner, he simply kills off another character.

	Even the Continental Op is pretty much a cipher. He doesn't seem to have much of a background, other than that he's somewhat afraid of the Old Man, who runs the Continental Detective Agency. We know he smokes and drinks too much and even takes cocaine, but other than that he doesn't live up to his cool name. Unfortunately all of this reads like a bad comic book. Even Hammett would have a good laugh at what the New York Times said about RED HARVEST, I would assume in 1929 when it was published: "RED HARVEST is more than a superb crime novel: it is a classic exploration of corruption and violence in the American grain." I'll give him two stars for noir dialogue, but the rest of it is pretty much dreck.
