Being that it is only about 90 pages long, I was able to finish this story in one afternoon. It is easy to see why Whites and Blacks get such different messages from the book. 

The reader is encouraged, throughout the story, to be sympathetic to the White characters. Since most Whites, even in the 21st century, have yet to shed their racist garments, they will naturally emphathize with the plight of these poor White guys who, unfortunately, are "forced" to put up with the strangeness of this strange land in order to steal the resources from that land's inhabitants. After all, White guys are having to put up with similar trials even today in order to steal the resources from, yeah, that's right, the same country, the Congo. Oh, pity those poor French military advisors who are forced to go into the "Heart of Darkness" to keep the natives fighting each other, to make sure they don't turn on the real theives of their abundant mineral resources. The horror! The horror!

By contrast, Conrad's treatment of his black characters is non-existent. They are soul-less beasts of burden. Conrad doesn't even bother to give them names. They are just referred to as niggers. When they are described as being beaten, or left alone to die, or forced to work on Marlow's ship for over a month with no food except rotten hippo meat (Marlow's only concern was that the smell of the rotted meat was annoying the White guys), Conrad writes of these incidents with no more sympathy than what you would expect from a description of an ant being stepped on by our poor embattled protagonist. Only a Black fool would not be offended by Conrad's work and Barak Obama is anything but that.

To get some idea of just how bad Conrad's character development is, compare it to that of one of his contemporaries who actually had talent ... Mark Twain. It is a sign of Twain's genius that he could suck Whites in by using the word "nigger", but at the same time get them to see his black characters as human beings. His black characters had names, families, they could even feel love and pain. Just like White people. Imagine that.
