Sue Monk Kidd was raised in the conservative South; she went to charm school; several of the men in her family are Baptist ministers; and, for many years, she earned a living as an inspirational Christian writer (get the picture?).  For most of her adult life, Kidd never questioned her faith or her femininity ... that is, not until she witnessed an episode of sexual harassment involving her teenage daughter.  Following this incident, Kidd gradually began to realize that the Church and society are patriarchal systems.  The first part of this book deals with Kidd's spiritual/feminist awakening, while the second part of this book deals with her evolving faith.  While I have a lot of respect for Kidd's willingness to question herself and her deepest beliefs, her book was of virtually no use to me.  

I think my background has a lot to do with my disinterest.  I'm a good 20 years younger than Kidd, and I've considered myself a "feminist" since I was about 2 years old.  So - all of these bright ideas that Kidd was having - they really go without saying for me.  I mean - her realizations that women are not second to men and that we have been "socialized" to believe certain things about gender ... well, these are notions that have been explored and re-explored about a zillion times.  Anyone with even a remote understanding of feminist theory is going to be really bored by the first half of this book, which is primarily devoted to her not-so-profound awakening.  With that said - if you are not very well-versed in feminism, or if you come from a really conservative background (like Kidd) - her awakening might be of interest to you.  Personally, I found the second half of the book a bit more interesting, as Kidd talked occasionally about the history of Christianity and the history of women in the Church; I definitely learned some new things.  However, I imagine that there are more useful books that explore the history of women and Christianity.  Unfortunately, I do not know of any at this time.

There are 3 additional complaints I have with this book:   

1.  Kidd overuses metaphors!  Don't get me wrong.  It's not that I'm not a "poetic" type (I was an English major in college) - it's just that she uses metaphors to the point that they become tedious.  This book should have been edited a bit more carefully.    

2.  Throughout this text, Kidd frequently describes her dreams.  I find this really frustrating, because her "dreams" are so evidently contrived.  Does anyone really believe that Kidd had a dream in which she crawled into the empty lap of a Pieta-like statue, and that the Virgin healed her wounds?  All of her so-called dreams are *uncannily* relevant to her spiritual journey.  I felt manipulated each time I read about one.       

3.  She talks a lot about the Devine Feminine and uses a lot of female language.  That's great.  I think it's really important that Christians counter the always-male descriptions of the Divine (i.e. God, Father, He, etc.).  However, Kidd also talks frequently about the "feminine soul."  I think it's dangerous to assign a specifically "feminine" soul to all women; this implies that there is something inherently "feminine" about women and their spirituality and something inherently "masculine" about men and their spirituality.  Does this not counter the very idea that women are *socialized* to be feminine and men are *socialized* to be masculine?  I think it does.  And - along those same lines - Kidd frequently describes specifically feminine rituals or moments of feminine worship.  Almost every time, these rituals and moments of worship have to do with nature - or maybe with spontaneous dancing or singing.  It seemed to me that she was describing women as somehow more "natural" and "earthly" than men.  This is certainly not a new idea.  For centuries, women have been associated with the earth and base instincts, while men have been associated with the divine and more spiritual and intellectual pursuits.  And while I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing to bring the earth and nature back into Christianity - I think Kidd is making a big mistake in her implication that women, specifically, are connected to the earth. 

In summary - if you are in a situation similar to the situation Kidd was in when she had her awakening and would like to learn more about a woman's spiritual/feminist journey - this would be an okay book for you (though I really only recommend it half-heartedly).  But, if you already have a general understanding of feminism - or if you are put off by the notion that women are "earthly" - I wouldn't recommend this book
