If you've come to site to read about the 1996 Nebula Award Winner, don't be fooled, this is not science fiction no matter how the publisher may have tried to hype that on the book jacket.  Not only should you ignore the fact that the SFWA gave this novel an award that used to mean best science fiction of the year, you should now question the worth of Nebula Award winners of any year after and including 1987.  Science fiction has gone through subgenres.  In the first half of the 20th century, scifi was mostly a pulp magazine short story genre.  The 50's saw the rise of the preeminent old guard of science fiction, Isaac Asimov, Robert Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke, with space empires, future histories, etc.  This continued with two subdivisions, hard scifi and soft scifi, with hard science fiction writing more about the science (what would it be like in a spacecraft near an astronomical body with an intense gravitation field like Larry Niven's Neutron Star) and soft science fiction talked more about humanist, psychological effects of science.  The 70's also saw the rise of some low level homosexuality written in the background of stories.  Frederik Pohl's 1977 Gateway, winner of both the Nebula and Hugo awards, was a landmark novel in that it brought together these divisions in one novel.  The early 80's then saw a dramatic shift with the rise of cyberpunk.  However all of these elements had something related to science fiction; the spirit of their subgenres had science in it.  However, in 1987, feminism became the fad of the SFWA and no less than four subpar novels were awarded the Nebula award for four straight years.  (Haha, I can hear lesbians laughing at `straight'.)  For the year of 1996, feminism wasn't enough, they had to award the Nebula to a novel on lesbianism.  Now, if you *wanted* to read a book on lesbianism, well then there you are, and this book won some Lambda award, *but* if you were looking to read science fiction and, OK, will accept lesbianism as a subtheme, then this book is NOT for you.  This book is lesbianism through and through.  To say this novel even has a veneer of science fiction is giving it a lot of credit.  And if you don't already know, to heterosexual males, true lesbianism is not of any interest whatsoever.  Yeah, so you've seen some titillating girl or girl porno photos somewhere, or those teenage girls on the cover of the t.A.T.u. cd that claim to be lesbian sure look hot.  It's fake, they're not lesbian, it's all a business, to sell whatever it is that's wanted to sell, those girls are at most bisexual, but probably not even that.  Real lesbians are not titillating to males and they don't care whatsoever that they aren't.  And if they act like they are, it because they want to jerk your chain because they despise you so much.  They even despise heterosexual women.  I read an article years back that went on and on deriding Alanis Morissette, why?... because she was lamenting about a relationship with a man.  Personally, and I've spoken with other men who thought so too, I think that Alanis Morissette almost single handedly helped improved male-female relationships.  If you were a guy and left a woman, or the woman left you, all of her female associates will gather around her and you are just scum and if they felt anything you sure wouldn't know it.  But Alanis sang with so much passion about the pain that you could understand that women were indeed human beings.  All the lesbianism and feminism isn't going to do that.  It's going to blame you.  Lesbians even have a problem with heterosexual feminists!  The author herself has complained that only lesbianism represents true feminism.  Do I find this interesting?  Actually I do.  Like many science fiction readers I'm open to many different subcultures.  Do I hold anything against lesbians (no pun intended)?  No of course not.  It's their life to live as they choose.  Should this book have won the Lambda award for best lesbian novel of the year?  That's dependent upon the organization on how they rate it's worth amongst other works of it's genre, in this case lesbianism.  Did I find the articles on Alanis Morissette worth reading?  Sure, they were relatively short and explained a lot about their mindset.  I also found other articles written by them interesting like how their clothing fashion is cutting edge, and how heterosexual women will eventually emulate their fashion sense.  HOWEVER, did I find taking the time in my life, in my career, amongst all the myriad of other tasks I want/need to do (and this is the entire *point* of this review) to slog through this 300+ page book worth it?: NO.

You've probably read the plot elsewhere.  Some female protagonist finds herself on the street, she gets taken under the wing of some other female character, she has her first lesbian experience, blah, blah, blah.  Did I say this book is boring too?  It is.  It's also not very original in its basic sense.  And what is Slow River supposed to mean: the flow of vaginal fluids?  How witty.

Why did the SFWA (the Speculative Fiction Writers of America) award the Nebula to this book?  Who knows: guilt over awards to past science fiction writers like Robert Heinlein?, a collusion amongst all the female writers within the SFWA?, internal politicking?  Like many things that seems bizarre to an outside viewer, usually politics are involved.  And giving the Nebula award to this book reeks of the stench of politics.

I've seen from another reviewer, "be warned", written Feb 4, 2003, that gave this novel 1 star, received only 3 out of 27 useful review notations; way more feedback than most other reviews.  So what does that mean, that 24 lesbians have commented on that review?  This review is specifically for science fiction readers.  Personally I should never have to be writing this review because I should never have read this book.  But this novel was awarded the Nebula award in 1996 and I was under the idiotic notion that the Nebula was awarded to the BEST science fiction novel of the year, and so I read this book, and thus a review under that context is justified.  If one cannot accept criticism or an opinion differing from their own, well what does that say,... what does that say about the tolerance of  lesbianism
