Creationist A: Boy, am I getting frustrated.  The evolutionists have an incredible amount to evidence that's really hard to refute.  I mean, WE true believers know they're wrong, but to the general public, let's face it, the evolutionist case just looks too good.  They got TONS of science on their side. What can we do?

Creationist B: How about this. Why don't we get someone to write a book that says there are complex biological features that could not evolve because the parts they're made up of couldn't function alone. 

CA: But haven't we already tried that dozens of times in various ways?  I mean, the evolutionists have always said that looking at complex end products doesn't tell the full story.  And you gotta admit, that makes sense.  I mean, the whole point they make is that biological features evolve in a slow, step by step process over huge spans of time, one small change at a time. In the meantime, they say, the transitional forms could become extinct, making it seem like a complex form came out of nowhere. Like I said, this is frustrating.

CB: You're missing the point.  I know a guy who's a biochemist.  He can write up something using all the technical jargon.  He can even get into things like genetics and DNA and all that stuff and make it sound really convincing. I mean, it's not gonna fool biologists or biochemists but let's face it, THEY aren't the ones we're trying to fool.  We'll call it "intelligent design" instead of "creationism" .  We'll try to make it sound like it's something new.  People won't know what to think. When they see it on bookstore shelves, a lot of people might just think it's actually a legitimate science book.  What are they gonna do?  Go out and take advanced university courses in biology and chemistry to find out for themselves?  They're gonna think it's real.

CA: I get it. You just want to deliberately create confusion among the general public by writing over their heads, even if you know what you've written is garbage.

CB.  Precisely.

CA: Very sneaky!  I like the way you think.  Let's just hope those people don't bother to look at other sources of information.  They might just find out this ID stuff is baloney.

CB:  Shhh!!!  You'll give it away!!
