Finkelstein is a well-known contributor to the Middle East, but not a respected one.  

At one point he cites the Arab population of 'Palestine' in the year 1860 as 1.1 million.  Yet, in 1947, the 'high estimate' of the population was perhaps 1 million. Between 1900 and 1937 it is known that the Arab population tripled (see Peel report of 1937, 'Rape of Palestine', etc.). 

The 1st number 'proves' Palestine was not underpopulated in 1860 (that shows the Israelis displaced/colonized) and the 2nd inflates the Arab migration from the 1948 war to a number greater than indicated in the 1951 UN report (illustrating the brutality and overall badness of the Israelis).

Inconsistant use of numbers is only one example of the dishonesty of Finkelstein.

The numerous massacres of Israelis by the Arabs in the 1948 war are ignored in favor of dramatizing the one Israeli massacre (Deir Yassin). There are photos available (not in this book)showing Arab 'soldiers' in 1948 with their necklaces ofIsraeli ears, noses, and thumbs around their necks. 

The Arab aggression in 1967 is disputed by claims that the battalions of Egyptian armies massed at Israel's border were not sufficient to destroy Israel. The tanks and armies of Syria and Jordan are not considered in this argument. The public statements and actual schedule for this war promising to destroy Israel and the Israelis by all three nations are also not noted. 

The offer of the US government to 'protect' Israel (making self-defense unnecessary) in 1967 is emphasized, but the offer was never made by President Johnson, only a congressman without authority to back it up.  In addition,the same promise made by France by DeGaulle in 1956 and repudiated by the same DeGaulle in May of 1967 is not mentioned as a possible source of Israeli unease. 

The main interest of the book is the rebuttal to Joan Peter's 'From Time Immemorial'.  One theme of Peter's book is that there was tremendous Arab immigration into the British controlled Palestine from 1920-1945.  Finkelstein attacks her poor scholarly technique and her data.  (I disagree with Finkelstein's conclusions. There are many other sources printed in the 1930's not mentioned by either Peters or Finkelstein that back up the idea of massive Arab immigration into Israel/Palestine. Based on other data published in the 1930's, it is difficult to maintain that the Arab population of Palestine did not triple during this period.)

The other themes of Peters, Arab racism against Jewish Arabs, Arab crimes against humanity perpetrated against their Jewish brethren every century since the birth of Mohammed, that the 'Golden Age' of Arab toleance is largely a myth, are not seriously touched by Finkelstein. (That Arab tolerance of Jews at any time other than 50 years of the Taif states is a myth is well-supported elsewhere.  

I am still shocked that Arab apologists continue to cite the Jewish leader and scholar Maimonides as an example of Arab tolerance. (Maimonides twice fled religious persecution from Muslims and, a third time, was on trial for apostasy from Islam and was protected in this trial by the great Saladin. (Saladin appointed his uncle the judge and gave instructions for a 'not guilty' verdict.)

My name is Andrew Nitzberg.  I am Jewish, have a masters degree in history (Medieval Studies), and am a practicing attorney
