I stumbled across this book by accident at my library and decided what the heck, all those millions reading Gray's franchise can't be wrong.  Plus, I've seen Gray on Larry King once, and he seemed like a nice and reasonable enough guy.  This book, though, promising in its intro to be "sexy", touched more of my comical than my sensual nerves.  Now, I am not above accepting bedroom advice where it's warranted (for instance, it is thanks to Dr. Gray that I finally made sense of that night years ago when my husband slept on the couch after a huge fight caused by my criticizing a movie we'd just went to see).  But Gray's generalizations, dumbing down of most issues and sharing his own sex life with his wife Bonnie were mostly unhelpful, and I suspect that the passages I found funny were involuntarily so. 

Although I'm the first to admit that women love compliments, Gray's suggestions, as displayed in several top 10-lists of things to say (and, occasionally, what not to say) were a tidbit too repetitive (ever wonder how many combinations you can play with the phrase "your breasts are wonderful"?  Read the book!).  Almost as enlightening was the hot tip on how, while getting to the undressing part, the man should pull the woman's panties "up her crack" (a.k.a. give her a plain old wedgie--no joke).  And, don't miss the one where the Mongolian woman pulls a flag at full mast when she's in the mood and at half when she's not (or maybe it was different colors, I couldn't read clearly through my tears--no offense to the Mongolian people!).

More annoying were the recurring (and very stereotypical) assumptions that a woman always needs 10 or more times more cajoling into sex than a man (in various ways, be it foreplay, flowers or the favored seduction line hit lists), that a man always comes (and too quickly, of course), and that you need constantly innovative acrobatics in the bedroom, or your (otherwise mutually comfortable and sure-fire, I wonder?) approach will become a "turn-off".

Bottom line (no pun intended):  if you want some light and basic (!) guidance, the book is not too terrible, but if it is "advanced bedroom skills" (Gray said that!) that you're after, you're better off digging out that old Erica Jong or even any pulp.     


