In his book REDISCOVERING CHINA, Cheng Li quotes a sinologist who said, , "If you visit China for two weeks, you want to write a book; if you stay in China for two months, you want to write an article; if you live in China for two years, you don't want to write anything." Unfortunately, Ethan Gutmann chose not to follow this sage advice and ended up authoring a rambling, self-aggrandizing, anti-China screed. 

I have spent a substantial amount of time in China since 2001 and have read numerous non-fiction works about that country. Without a doubt, LOSING THE NEW CHINA is among the worst I have ever seen. Prospective readers should be aware that the publisher, Encounter Books, is backed financially by a number of Conservative organizations, among them the Olin and Koch Foundations. Enough said. 

The trouble begins on the opening page of the Preface where Gutmann writes messianically, "I was more motivated by the idea of changing China than by the prospect of profit." The first hundred pages is pure, self-serving public relations from a PR professional, filled with name dropping and insider-status trivia about AmCham, the American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing. Skip it and go straight to Chapters 5 and 6 where Gutman switches gears and actually offers some interesting insights into Motorola's successes in China and that government's control of the Internet, aided and abetted by Western networking and security companies. 

By this point, however, Gutmann claims to have had a George W. Bush transformational experience in which his enthusiasm for China becomes an insecure loathing, apparently triggered by his realization that nothing he or any other Western businessman does will likely convert China to Western ethics and business values (as if our Enron, Adelphia, Tyco, Global Crossing, Martha Stewart, Jack Grubman hands are so clean). Wonder of wonders, another Westerner learns that 5,000 years of history and culture and 1.3 billion people cannot be changed in a decade!

The last chapter of LOSING THE NEW CHINA is truly bizarre. Gutmann offers a self-pitying wallow into the sex-filled nightlife of Beijing, where any Westerner can find anything he wants, as much as he wants. While describing the sexual escapades of an acquaintance named Rex, Gutmann seems torn between disgust and envy, practically indicting the country's entire female population as empty-headed prostitutes. The author nearly tastes the forbidden fruit himself, having entered his "personal heart of darkness" in the summer of 2001. Oh, the horror! The horror! 

Thankfully, Gutmann heroically comes to his senses, returns to his wife in Vermont, and sets out to describe his experience in the evil, godless empire of Communist China. He wears his distaste on his sleeve, foregoing any pretense of objectivity by "cleverly" using the Chinese character for greed ("tan") as a decorative symbol at the beginning of each chapter.   

LOSING THE NEW CHINA fails to fulfill the promise implicit in its title, but then, it never really had a chance. The author evidences no sense of Chinese history or China's shamed sense of inferiority to the West, demonstrates no affinity for Chinese culture beyond a condescending appreciation of hutong life (even his dabbles in the Beijing culture scene seem little more than opportunities for personal networking), suggests no familiarity with Chinese life beyond the five square miles around Tiananmen Square, and shows no interest in contact with average Chinese people. The world he describes is an isolated and insular community of expatriates whose contacts are limited to the opportunistic Chinese capitalists most like themselves. 

Gutmann concludes that China is not to be trusted, that the Chinese government will do anything to preserve its power and extend its global influence. His China is not a vast commercial market or a "strategic partner," it is a patiently brooding and devious enemy bent on achieving economic and military power. Chinese companies are just tools of the State, willing to lie, cheat, and steal without a second thought. Gutmann laments the behavior of Western companies willing to play by China's rules (or lack thereof) for the sake of making a buck, yet conveniently ignores decades of identical corporate behavior in Mexico, Central and South America, the African continent, and other parts of Southeast Asia. Western companies giving Beijing the tools to police the Internet is inarguably lamentable, but so is marketing arms and munitions to dictators, selling cigarettes to Third World countries, pricing medicines for malaria and AIDS beyond the reach of millions of dying people, and profiting from the sale of a country's own water to its people. 

Trust me, this is a book well worth skipping. I only wish I had known better before I started. The same topic - the frustrations of doing business in China's nascent capitalist economy - is covered far, far better and in a much more detailed and entertaining fashion in Tim Clissold's MR. CHINA. I highly recommend it instead.   
