If you are looking for an unabashed cheerleader on the American Way, this book is for you. If you are already convinced that America is the pinnacle of Western Civilization, nothing in this book will change your mind. If you voted for George W Bush - you'll probably enjoy this book. On the other hand, if you believe America has made some mistakes and are looking for arguments to convince you that what you thought were mistakes were actually smart decisions - look elsewhere. 

Revel is a lover of capitalism, liberalism, obviously an admirer of the USA and probably of George W Bush as well. He makes his disdain for many European positions, as well as those of the American left, quite clear. This is a book written for people who agree with American foreign policy. Revel is well informed on many American foreign policy positions as well as European arguments against those positions. On the rare occasions when he is not insulting Europeans who disagree with him, he provides intelligent and thoughtful views on foreign affairs. 

The author spends most of the book distorting European views and insulting those who hold them. A fine example is his description of the US Missile Defense system. He claims that there are 2 arguments against it. One, that it doesn't work and the second that it will work too well and make useless the arsenals of the other nuclear powers. These are obviously contradictory arguments and he claims to be baffled that anyone could believe them both. Oddly enough, I've never heard from anyone who believed them both. I do recall the letter signed by 50 Nobel prize winning scientists claiming that the project is a waste of money. I also recall hearing from those worried about angering Russia and China. 

Mr Revel's penchant for ridiculing those who disagree with him is occasionally amusing but never convincing. It's a shame. I think he's right on a number of points. If he would just turn his copious knowledge of foreign policy and his broad vocabulary toward convincing people instead of insulting them - he might actually have an impact on someone who doesn't agree with him already.
