Try and imagine you are a write for a sketch comedy along the lines of "Saturday Night Live." You are trying to come up with a skit parodying snooty intellectuals. No matter how talented you are, you would be unable to create a fictional satire as effective as the real live Harold Bloom. 

Bloom is certainly pretty proud of himself here. He gives us his insight into what makes these geniuses so brilliant. It gets laughable at times. For example, Bloom argues that Dostoyevsky's genius is typified in his tedious portrayal of Fyodor Pavlovitch
Karamazov, while he lacks any notable religious or philosophical genius because he was an anti-semite. Yes Bloom, being anti-semitic is really bad, but believe it or not, a person can have some extremely warped (or even evil) views and still make outstanding contributions to our religious and philosophical make up. Abraham Lincoln said some nasty racist stuff during his lifetime, but still laid out the idea of an American Civil Religion beautifully in the Gettysburg Adress. I certainly find the way Socrates comported himself with young boys more than a bit disturbing in works such as Plato's "Charmides," but that hardly detracts from his apology. Likewise, Dostoyevsky was in fact a religious philosophical genius, despite being an anti-semite. You'd think an Ivy League Professor would demonstrate some understanding of the fact that people need not be morally one dimensional.  

Then there's Bloom's treatment of "The Yawhist." I think that there are few areas of literary criticism that better reveal one's character than forays into Biblical analysis. You're a self described radical who loves to foist your utopian political opinions on everyone you meet. You decide to study the bible and what do you know, you discover Jesus & St. Paul were really radicals who really wanted to stick it to the Roman empire. You're an rigid, uptight moralist. You read the Bible and wow! you find that God is really all about rules and regulations, that the people you resent aren't living up to. Your primary interest is buisness, you read the bible and you discover Jesus was the best salesman that ever lived, and really encourages capitalism (investing talents and all that). You're Harold Bloom and you read the Torah and discover...Surprise! The Yawhist was a pretentious, snooty intellectual who loved irony. Even more sexy and intriguing, she was a sophisticated lady of the royal court. No doubt one who would be charmed by Harold Bloom's brilliant conversation, and sharp insights into her writing.  

This book wavers between Bloom being painfully self-satisfied, and Bloom being so self-satisfied he's hilarious. Thankfully, there's more of the latter. 

I can understand that some people might want to give this book higher marks, because regardless of what it says about these geniuses, he has good taste. Really though, stop and think about that arguement. How hard is it to compile a list of geniuses that would be pretty acceptable to anyone in the know? I'm pretty sure anyone with literature and classics course catalogs from a few universities could patch together something comparable simply by cutting and pasting. 

All that said, Bloom's writing is good, even if ludicrously pretentious. I can't really knock him for stating his opinions. Ater all, I have zero credentials, and write reviews on amazon.  
