I feel really sorry for the would-be-writers who are taught by this author. If they write anything like this book--wordy, pointless, boring--well, good luck to them. I've read at least 10 books on the craft of fiction writing; I think this is the worst book. In Chapter 2, she talks about her student's fear of writing dialogue, and I thought she might be teaching middle school English classes, not college-level creative writing courses. Somewhere she talks about one of her student's question, why a story has to have a plot, and she goes on to say in many words why a plot is needed, etc., as if the readers of this book are all like the insincere student. I lost interest and went to the next chapter.

In Chapter 3, she talks about Genre, Mainstream, Literary. She says, "Literary stories are avant-garde and experimental stories that incorporate unconventional and nontraditional writing style and techniques. Maybe she got it right and other authors got it wrong.

In Chapter 4 (Dialogue that propels the story forward), she has subsections of "Dialogue that moves," "Provides new information," "Reveals new obstacles," "Increases suspense," "Furthers the theme," "Shows character transformation," "Reveals/reminds of goals," and "Keeping your characters in social settings." What's the point of all these? Even mentioning these in a paragraph would be unnecessary (I don't believe a person who hasn't read any book on creative writing would jump right into a book titled "Dialogue"), but this book has each of these points in subsections. Nothing what she says sticks in your head, and you feel like throwing up. I stopped reading somewhere in Chapter 4; that was last month and I don't feel like continue reading. 

Oh, she has lots of exercises (each seemed like writing a novel; I might be wrong, because I've paid attention to just a few of them). If you like that (I don't), go for it. I've learned a hundred times more in a short chapter (Chapter 11, The secrets of Good Dialogue) from Sol Stein's "Stein on Writing."  
