What a bull crock of BS this book is. Something else written/invented to make people deliberately afraid. 
What BS! If the Chechen Mafia had such things they would have already used them against Russia because
of their hatred for Russia. Williams is trying to sell the idea that the USA is going to have to worry?
Boy have I got a bridge to sell you. Fear mongering propaganda at its best! It really makes me wonder 
who's agenda is being served promoting this tripe. 

 

Some things to consider:
 
(1) The Russians are not stupid people to allow compromise of   
    their weapons. 
(2.) The Chechens would have long ago deployed such a weapon if 
     they had one, and they have good reason to.
(3) Osama would have already used such a weapon against the US,  
    Britain,Canada, Spain or Poland 
(4) The Russian mafia is not stupid either since they live in  
    Russia. Why would they want to destroy their own base of 
    operation?
(5) Islamic people living in 'oil rich provinces' along the Southern boarder of China near Afganistan 
have as much reason to hate China because of the oppression they experienced.While China
was busy stealing rich Oil land the US looked the other way as the coalition of US led forces 
moved into Afganistan.

This author must  spend too much time in reading Steven Spiel-burg's stuff or he has been
a peyote vision quest that has resulted in full blowen paranoia. 

I like what one critic of this book so aptly stated ... 
"As for them owning 12 suitcase bombs, that's a well exaggerated figure 
and could only be proposed by someone infected with delusion on a Michael Moore scale. " 

Well Henny Pennythe sky is not falling.

I would suggest that if you are looking for a really good read on  nuclear scare themes 
go buy the book "TOMMOROW" or TRIUMPH by Philip Wylie. At least you know you are 
buying a novel written by a great writer. Williams makes you think you are buying facts
 that can be believed. Williams, Michael Moore and CNN do have much in common. 
