The author advances that cities either thrive or die based on three variables: 1) their sacredness; 2) their safety; and 3) commerce.  Sacredness seems like a very questionable driver of a city's success.  Is Jerusalem or Mecca ever likely to be a more successful city than Dallas or Seattle?  Unlikely.  Also, safety does not seem like a differentiating variable but more like a necessity for a city.  It is like saying you need to speak English to be a successful student at Harvard.  You need a lot more than that.  So, does a city need a lot more than to be safe to become a successful city.  Finally, the third variable, commerce, is self-evident and appears the only valid one out of the three mentioned variables.  

The present and future of a city most probably depend on a number of variables not well detailed by the author including: 

1) Fiscal condition, or does a city has a healthy and growing tax revenue base that can suffice to cover its related cost of delivering public services and running city government? 

2) Quality of municipal services including transportation, and most importantly education.  For a city to thrive, it needs to deliver very strong secondary and post secondary educational services.

3) An innovative business and cultural environment.  Is the city a nest of creativity resulting in a high rate of innovation within commerce, but also the arts, and other domain?  Does the city develop other related competitive edges associated with specialized network of professionals?  New York benefits a great deal from the huge human capital concentrated in "Wall Street."  San Francisco and San Jose benefit greatly from being within close reach of both Silicon Valley and venture capitalists

4) A strategic location.  Is the city located at a gateway of domestic or international trading routes?  Is it located near a coast, an airport, and a major harbor so it is quickly accessible from around the World? 

5) A strategic virtual location.  How connected is the city?  Does its information infrastructure measure up to other World-class cities? 

6) Economic demographics of its residents.  What is the educational level and per capita income of its residents?  What is the level of homeownership? Business ownership? 

Obviously, many of these variables are interconnected.  And, many are associated with what the author calls commerce.  However, he did not drill down on many of these related variables.  Even though such variables would allow you to truly differentiate in a statistically meaningful and analytically insightful way between cities.  

Meanwhile, the author offers just vague platitude devoid of much insight on the subject.  The model he proposes based on his three variables explains a bit about distant history, but much less about the future. 

This book was especially disappointing given that the same author has written one of the most original and insightful books I have read.  Indeed, back in 1994 he wrote an excellent book called "Tribes" that does an excellent job of differentiating the culture and behavior of many of the World's most interesting clans or ethnic groups.  He also maps out what such cultural and behavioral features entail in terms of the present and future success of these different demographic clans (clustered by either religion, race, or nationality).  Thus, the author was able to deliver much insight about the various clans of the human race.  Unfortunately, he delivered nearly none regarding cities.

Thus, I strongly recommend you skip "The City" and read "Tribes" instead.             
