  Kabat-Zinn, to his misfortune, is like many people who gain a bit of fame for doing one thing well: they come to believe that that they can do many things well and, worse yet, that they have the solutions to the world's problems. Almost always, that solution is dependent upon people behaving or doing what they do.

  This book is not about the meditative strategies that made Kabat-Zinn justifiably famous in some circles. Rather, "Coming To Our Senses" is a confused, disjointed, rambling, disconnected and amazingly naive and ignorant treatise on how the world will be saved if only everyone could be induced to meditate.

  Tell that to those pleasant folks who are beheading people because they don't share their ideas. Or to the punks on the street who take what they want with whatever violence they deem appropriate. Tell that to the smarmy politicians and others who feast on the taxpayer's money.

  Kabat-Zinn should have stuck to helping people use mindfulness (his term of art for meditation) to help them overcome stress.

  Kabat-Zinn displays amazing levels of naivete, ignorance and gullibility in these pages when he leaves his area of expertise. He leaves no doubt that he is a child of the 1960s. This is apparent in his endless litany of common left-wing political nostrums.

  Kabat-Zinn's writing style in this work is absolutely awful. I counted 97 words in one sentence and it was not an exception. In many ways it seems that Kabat-Zinn is imitating --- poorly --- Joyce and Proust. One chapter is devoted to a description of the descent of the author's father into Alzheimer's. It is, in its own way, moving, but has nothing to do with meditation.

  Kabat-Zinn seems to think that like Barbara Streisand and Sean Penn, that he has something to say not merely on the state of the world but about how humankind can save itself. This is the kind of senseless monologue that you would expect to see as a self-published work from a vanity press.

  I simply cannot overstress how awful "Coming To Our Senses" is. If you want to learn about meditation, Kabat-Zinn's earlier works are far, far better. If you want New Age nonsense, then you might find this wretched work satisfying.

Jerr
