This book is based upon Brenda Ueland's experience teaching creative writing to adults and her success at freeing many of her students from inhibitions that prevented them from writing well.  It is basically a "pep talk" for anyone who thinks they cannot write or have nothing important to say.   And it has some interesting insights about the mysterious nature of inspiration and the role leisure plays in creativity.  ["Leisure: The Basis of Culture," by Josef Pieper, is a more advanced exploration of this theme.]  However, the book is interlaced with so much dubious philosophy that I cannot recommend it.

For example, on page 129, Brenda begins with this gem:  "I have come to think that the only way to become a better writer is to become a better person."  However, she then ruins this thought by saying that by "better person" she does not mean a good person "for a great person often does things that so-called good people think very bad indeed."  She does not explain what she means by a great person.  But it seems to mean someone who is an independent thinker; an astute observer who does not accept social conventions or values that cannot be affirmed through their own inner wisdom.  Brenda does not consider the possibility that one's inner "truth" can be faulty.

She relies upon quotations from the poet William Blake (one of her great people), entitling Chapter Five: "Sooner Strangle an Infant in its Cradle than Nurse Unacted Desires," based upon one of his noble sentiments about deferred gratification.  Blake saw visions and heard voices which he believed were Divine rather than demonic.  Brenda also prefers this interpretation and thus agrees with Blake's conclusion that our inner voice which says "Thou shalt" is our true conscience, while the voice that counsels "Thou shalt not" is the product of learned behavior and should be rejected.  (See page 13 and footnote on page 35.)

Later, on page 174, the author reveals herself to be a ho-hum, garden-variety relativist.  She writes, "If it is true to you, it is true.  Another truth may take its place later.  What is truly from me is true, whether anybody believes it or not.  It is my truth."

The problem with all this philosophy is that the author tells the reader that they too must tend toward the amoral and asocial aspects of the psychopathic personality if they want to be an independent thinker and hence, a great writer.  She teaches that the end justifies the means.  Whatever gets the creative juices flowing is justified.  And the stream of consciousness that gushes forth, whether polluted or pristine, is art.  It is art because it is true to the inner self of the artist, who has learned to cast off all restraint, fear, and ambition.  (I wonder what Brenda would think about the latest notions of modern psychology that radical independence is a less mature emotional state than cooperative inter-dependence?)

Finally, the author presents her view as an either/or scenario.  Either you adopt the reckless and rule-less approach to writing, or you're creativity will be stymied.  She does not allow for the option that one can be creative and value-oriented at the same time.  Potential readers of this work should be aware that behind the enthusiastic pep talk there lurks a relativistic philosophy which may not correspond with their personal beliefs
