   If you're considering buying this book, I want to look down at the bottom of this page and note the number of customer reviews.  Everything, I'm going to say has already probably been said by them, but I will continue on out of ego.  What drove so many people to their keyboards? Simply, rage.  I know that's the case with me anyways, dear readers.  I wasted an entire summer on these books hoping desperately that their former glory would somehow blaze back into life.  Sadly, I was mistaken.  Reading these novels now is just like drinking microwaved coffee.

   I'm sure Jordan has never read Hemingway.  The former may look like the latter, but old rough and tough Ernest wouldn't waste time describing dresses when, I don't know, he could be instilling artistic value into the prose.  What about Jordans characterizations, though, you ask?  (You're probably not asking that,but just go along with it.)  Well, and this may be shocking, Jordan's world happens to be filled by personality dopplegangers.  It's as if every woman's genetic code was locked into the same sequence for all eternity.  Oh, sure they may look different (it's mostly because of the dresses, I think), but they all possess the exact same persona that is, basically, Jordan's botched attempt at a strong woman.  I cannot take another exclamation of "Men!"  I guess that's some sort of mantra that let's you know they're REAL strong women.  It must be far more effective than actually instilling them with depth of character and the ability to triumph in adverse circumstances.  Then there are his male characters, who are either jerks or, in Perrin's case, lesser jerks who you hate anyways.

  But, the most greivous sin Jordan committs here is the utter stagnation of the plot.  Nothing happens.  Most of its an intricate dance of braid pulling and smoothing of skirts.  Rand is barely in it.  Which, doesn't really matter, it's not as if he's been doing anything great for the past couple books.  Tuon is terribly uninteresting, because, well, I've seen her many times before.  She's just part of Jordan's mad scheme to make sure every character's paired up and in everlasting love.  Which brings me to a point.  Why must Rand have three girlfriends?  If that is not the most teenage boy-oriented plot device ever employed.  And guess what, ones blonde, ones a rehead, and the other's a brunette.  Just thinking about it makes me want to cast down modern literature.            
    
    Run from this novel
