After really liking the Bourne Identity movies I figured I'd pick out a Ludlum novel because it would be good.  I got this from the library to check out and figured it would be a good read while I was on vacation.  I was very disappointed.

I barely got through it, but it helped me get to sleep so I plugged on.  First off, to reload a pistol you use a MAGAZINE, it's not a clip.  To hear some super special forces secret agent type calling it a clip takes all credibility away from the author to me.  It is soooo painfully obvious that the writer Gayle lynds has done no research whatsoever into weapons or combat and has never fired a firearm.  If you're going to write an action/thriller type novel, at least write like you somewhat know what you're talking about.  An MP5 is not going to slam anybody's body back like a sack of rice, it fires 9mm rounds.  Bullets do not push people back, not even a little bit, unless it's from a cannon of some sort or some other huge weapon designed to attack tanks or buildings.  Also, nobody is ever going to win and/or escape any firefight when they're armed with a 9mm Glock and a 9mm Beretta and they are facing off against a force that outnumbers them 6 to 1 and is armed with assault rifles.

The writing was poor, the dialogue was unrealistic, and it is littered with things that just make the author lose credibility (clips).  I will give Ludlum another chance by reading another novel, but Gayle Lynds is a very poor writer.  And what is up with her constant use of the word "too".  She has sentences like "And I better get over to the building, too."  Why is there a comma there Gayle, it doesn't sound right.  It should be "I'll get over to the building too."  It takes away the choppiness.  I did not get the sense at all that the main character was tough, it was clearly written by somebody that has never done any of the things she writes about.

Seeing that such poor writing gets published is actually a good thing, it gives me hope for my novel.

I give this book 2 stars, and overall rating of "Extreme Cheese". 
