Quigley was a Georgetown professor who was permitted access for two years in the early 1960's to the private archives of the Committee on Foreign Relations, a Rockefeller internationalist organization that compliments the work of the Trilateral Commission and the Royal Institute of International Affairs. 
 
It is difficult to determine what the author is trying to communicate.  There is no continuity to the book; nothing ties together Quigley's version of the past and of the future.  It's like reading about the solar system and finding out that the conclusion of the matter is that the sun will expand and burn everything up.  You are left wondering, what is the point?  

We are left with the suggestion that the elite should continue to guide us in the same direction that we are traveling, but avoiding some of the monumental blunders that they have made in the past.

Quigley's version of history consists mostly of unquestioning repetition of propaganda.  Quigley did a superficial job of analyzing history, and he is even worse at sociology.  He touts Inclusive Diversity as our great strength and greatest gift.  Perhaps he should have considered the aphorism, "Divide and conquer."  The West, or any other empire, can only flourish when it concentrates on matters of common concern, not divisivness
  
Quigley does slightly better with economics and foreign policy, which are more in his area of expertise.  He correctly observes that British and American "victories" in WWI and WWII resulted in the almost total destruction of international law.  Quigley is in favor of the idea of continental blocs replacing national states.  As globalization unfolds, Quigley exposes some of the hypocrisy and bungling, yet  he inexplicably remains committed to the overall plan.

So, what is the point of all of this costly meddling?  Quigley predicts success...and then failure.  "We shall undoubtedly get a Universal Empire in which the U.S. will rule most of Western Civilization.  This will be followed by a period of decay and ultimately by invasions and the total destruction of Western culture."  Couldn't we save ourselves the trouble and just mind our own business? 
  
Minding our own business is a concept based on the idea that the electorate is in control of the government, and that we have a choice.  However, Quigley admits that international financiers influence and control governments.  Quigley says that the internationalists, who prefer to remain in the background, should be known for their "valuable" contributions.  What these contributions amount to is that they want world government, and they intend to cram it down everyone's throats.

As we slouch toward financial, industrial, and government monopoly the author reminds us of some of the casualties.  "As economic enterprises have become larger and more tightly integrated into one another, the freedom, individualism, and initiative traditionally associated with the modern economy have to be sacrificed." Quigley acknowledges that in our future, "In general, there will be a very considerable modification of the areas and objectives of freedom in all societies of the world, with gradual reduction of numerous personal freedoms of the past."

To add to this loss of freedom, Quigley bemoans our loss of a spiritual mooring and suggests a return to the values of Christianity!   His version of Christianity, of course.  Still full of contradictions, Quigley cleaves to relativism rather than absolutes, approximations rather than final answers-not realizing that the adoption of these mindsets are what weakened the appeal of Christianity.

Finally, as we follow our present course, Quigley predicts an age of conflict characterized by class struggle, war, irrationality, and declining progress. Obviously, we're there now.   

Rather than attack his sponsors, who are bringing us this New World Order, Quigley vents his frustration on the middle class.  Quigley touts the moral superiority of both the rich and poor, but he asserts that the middle class consists of poorly-informed, neurotic, bourgeois, radical-right Republicans. Worst of all, they have Puritanical attitudes toward sex. 

The many internal contradictions in this book indicate a confused mind or a shallow thinker.  The author's history is mostly stale propaganda, spiced up with occasional pro-government cheerleading or tales of government boondoggles. 

Maybe if Quigley had broken this monstrosity into several different books, he would have had something coherent to say.  In this book, Quigley's  conclusion is almost totally divorced from the rest of the book.  This effort spanned 20 years, and possibly senility was sneaking up on the author.   
