Having seen Ann Coulter once it is rather hard to catagorize this book, especially in view of how she acts in person and her "vocabulary" off camera. Since I generally review military books I will try to stick with that topic.


Ann devotes an entire chapter in this book, 206-218, to a rather bizarre comparison: how Max Cleland lost his limbs in Vietnam to Bush's "honorable" service in the National Guard. Yes it is true that Cleland lost his limbs through an accident. This accident rated some rather derisive comments from Bobby Muller, but that does not grant Coulter the right to do the same. I saw Cleland at hearings and he left much to be desired in my opinion, especially regarding veterans issues. I dealt directly with Cleland's office and they really never really cared. And it is true he always played the sainted one during hearings. For Coulter to equate a disabling injury in Vietnam to Fort Dix, as on page 208, shows how demented she is.


What Coulter does in this chapter is denigrate Cleland's service (through an accident) so as to pump up Bush's record in the National Guard. Anybody who served in Vietnam knows what NG service was all about. Coulter tries to lie about Bush not being AWOL, which is a simple fact. Interestingly, she likes to use the Boston Globe to help prove other points in her book, also regarding Cleland (see page 212). Since that is the case, why didn't she use the Globe's excellent and extended investigation, never refuted, which proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that Bush was indeed AWOL. And, for the record, just because somebody got an honorable discharge does not mean they never went AWOL. Indeed, my own father went AWOL before WWII, served 30 days, and received an honorable discharge in 1945 as a pilot. The only reason my father served 30 days and Bush did not is because the latter had a congressman for a father. 


In Chapter 7 I had to laugh over her comment about "slutty-girls" and this "is not how women talk". Okay, but that is how YOU talk off camera, Ann.


I would like to point to two other unrelated topics. On page 312 Ann makes a ridiculous argument against legalizing drugs. Prohibition was a failure for a number of reasons, not least of which was it created crime and corruption. I don't follow her circular logic at the bottom of the page. I also don't agree with her touting herself as a "conservative success story" on page 321. Her personal life is a mess, but she is a millionaire, and that is how she measures success.


My final comment to people like Ann and her followers is this: if you are so sure a group of Americans or "liberals" are ready to "surrender" to the terrorists, why don't you strap it on and join the fight? I would have more respect for you if you even joined the National Guard as a reporter for the Stars and Stripes, you know, kind of like what Al Gore did in Vietnam.
