This book, How the Other Half Lives by Jacob Riis, had several very distinct themes.  First, the life of immigrants to New York City in the late 1800s was deplorable while housing for others was splendid.  "To-day three fourths of its people live in the tenements, and the nineteenth century drift of the population to the cities is sending ever-increasing multitudes to crowd them" (Riis, p. 6) Sections of tenement houses were divided by streets and alleys which divided the nationalities.  "As emigration from east to west follows the latitude, so does the foreign influx in New York distribute itself along certain well-defined lines that waver and break only under the stronger pressure of a more gregarious race or the encroachments of inexorable business." (Riis, p. 21)  Each nationality had some very distinct characteristics but they also had some very great differences as well.
	The next theme to emerge was that of work.  In some sections of the city, it was acceptable for everyone to work while in other sections, only the men did physical work while the women "kept house" or there was even mention of the men just standing in doorways, streets and alleys.  "The men sit or stand in the streets, on trucks, or in the open doors of the saloons smoking black clay pipes, talking and gesticulating as if forever on the point of coming to blows." (Riis, p. 49)  Money was earned, at very small rates throughout the tenements, by someone in the family, if not multiple people.  "Often there are two, sometimes three, sets of sweaters on the job.  They work with the rest when they are not drumming up trade, driving their `hands' as they drive their machine, for all they are worth, and making a profit on their work, of course, though in most cases not nearly as extravagant a percentage, probably, as is often supposed.  If it resolves itself unto a margin of five or six cents, or even less, on a dozen pairs of boys' trousers, for instance, it is nevertheless enough to make the contractor with his thrifty instinct independent.  The workman growls, not at the hard labor or poor pay, but over the pennies another is coining out of his sweat, and on the first opportunity turns sweater himself, and takes his revenge by driving an even closer bargain than his rival tyrant, t his reducing his profits." (Riis, p 94)
	Finally, the third theme centered on bringing about change via real people, real stories and images of real life in the tenements.  "Riis made maximum use of photographs, however, not only to illustrate six of his books, but also as lantern slides to illustrate lectures he began giving in 1888 and continued until his death." (Riis, p. xvii)  People are drawn to real life situations to which they can relate.  The accounts, photographs and images of Riis bring real life accounts to the reader, sparking more interest, creating a deeper relationship between the characters in the story and the reader.  And by doing so, Riis encourages others to take action to remedy the sad situation.

	As the previous themes are analyzed, connections can be made between them and education and society of today.  It is important to first note that in today's society, there are still sections in certain towns and cities that are divided predominantly by ethnic diversity.  Not only is housing situations but also in educational systems the divisions are found, although it is encouraged that the lines be broken down.  "The many philanthropic efforts that have been made in the last few years to render less intolerable the lot of the tenants in the homes where many of them must continue to live, have undoubtedly had their effect in creating a disposition to accept better things, that will make plainer sailing for the future builders of model tenements.,  In many ways, as in the `College Settlement' of courageous girls, the Neighborhood Guilds, through the efforts of The King's Daughters, and numerous other schemes of practical mission work, the poor and the well-to-do have been brought closer together, in an every-day companionship that cannot but be productive of the best results, to the one who gives no less than tto the one who receives." (Riis, p. 207)  Obviously different locales call for difference measures of tolerance and defend certain levels of intolerance but the lines exist nonetheless.  "The experience of this landlord points directly to the remedy which the law failed to supply to the early reformers.  It has since been fully demonstrated that a competent agent on the premises, a man of the best and the highest stamp, who knows how to instruct and guide with a firm hand, is a prerequisite to the success of any reform tenement scheme." (Riis, p. 205)
	Secondly, work was important in this book. Riis did an excellent job of documenting the working conditions and who was responsible for certain jobs in the tenements in each section.  Just as Benjamin Franklin valued an honest day's work, so did the people of the tenements.  The biggest difference between those two accounts of work was who was actually responsible for the work.  Depending upon the culture of the area sometimes it was the men, women or children, or all three, that completed work to earn money or keep house.  "Men, women and children work together seven days in the week in these cheerless tenements to make a living for the family, from the break of day till far into the nights.  Often the wide is the original cigarmaker from the old home, the husband having adopted her trade here as a matter of necessity, because, knowing no word of English, he could get no other work." (Riis, p. 105)   But how did people in this situation become educated to work?  "The old question, what to do with the boy, assumes a new and serious phase in the tenements.  Under the best conditions found there, it is not easily answered.  In nine cases out of ten he would make an excellent mechanic, if trained early to work at a trade, for he is neither full nor slow, but the short-sighted despotism of the trades unions has practically closed that avenue to him.  Trade-schools, however excellent, cannot supply the opportunity thus denied him.  Home, the greatest factor of all in the training of the young, means nothing to him but a pigeon-hole in a coop along with so many other human animals.  Its influence is scarcely of the elevating kind, if it have any....With no steady hand to guide him, the boy takes naturally to idle ways." (Riis, p. 136)  
	Finally, it is important to note the third theme of bringing reality into the lives of the reader.  In education today, it is important to show real life application of concepts and ideas for learning to take place.  Riis was a pioneer in bringing photographs, real images and valid data to people to create a felt need for change and response.  Most photographs in the book are very dark and only add realism to the stories told.  For example, the photographs on pages 93, 104 appear very dark and the subjects unhappy.  The fact that Riis was probably standing, himself, in the darkest part of the room and photographing the lightest part of the room, near the windows, only tells the reader that even in the lightest part of the room, the darkness and dreariness ruled over the tenements.  "Riis's use of photography to point his words and flesh out his anecdotes is no less important, endowing an entire legacy of its own." (Riis, p. xiii) 

	I believe the intent of the author was to simply bring a big picture view to narrow minded people.  He very much accomplished his purpose.  By using stories of families, shocking details and everyday photographs of real people, he was able to bring people to understand the reality of life in their own city and encourage them to help make changes.  It is often said that a picture is worth a thousand words, and Riis is a prime example of this.  Not only are his accounts vivid and horrific, but also his images leave nothing to the imagination.  The reader can not be left to imagining a rosier picture than was intended.  The illustrations both verbal and nonverbal are graphic and moving.
	The appropriate audience for this book would have to be very broadly, mature, adult citizens of our world.  The language used in this book can be, at times, a bit complicated to comprehend; this is why I believe it appropriate for mature adults.  I also believe very firmly that adults are sometimes the most difficult to convince to take action to help those less fortunate or those in need.  When we read real life accounts and see pictures of people just like us in deplorable conditions, it is difficult for us to sit back and take no action.  I also believe it is important for citizens of our world to understand the underlying message of helping those less fortunate or those in need who may be right in our own back yard.  This book is a stunning example of one man giving factual accounts of events to produce concerned citizens ready to take action to improve conditions for fellow human beings. 
