After my older brother suddenly died of coronary artery disease at age 40 due to genetically high cholesterol, I needed to learn everything possible on the subject so that I could avoid suffering the same fate.  I read all the books on the shelf, among them Dr. Ornish's.  I disliked this book because it is rather narcissistic and is focused more on Dr. Ornish himself than on educating us about how to avoid heart disease.  Take a look at chapter 1 and you'll see what I mean: "I was trained to treat hypertension..."; "I first became interested in conducting research on heart disease in 1975..."; "I began to wonder..."; "I went to the medical library and began reading extensively"; "It seemed like an exciting opportunity, so in 1977 I decided to take a year off..."; "I hadn't had enough clinical experience to be jaded..."; "I was unwittingly giving many of them hope for the first time since their illness had been diagnosed"; "I went back to medical school and graduated in 1980"; "From 1981 to 1984, I completed my internship and medical residency in Boston."; "In July 1984, I moved to San Francisco..."  This is just the tedious first six pages.  Trust me, it goes on and on like this.  Do you want to learn about how the heart works?  You'll finally get a few sentences on that subject when you get to page 42, squeezed in between more "I did this and I did that."  You'll get a little info on LDL and HDL when you get to page 51.  Sure, there is useful information within the 672 pages of this book, but you'll be forced to become an expert on Dr. Ornish and his life story to find it.  And remember, this book is more than 15 years old.  Perhaps back in 1990 he needed to devote 300 pages to convincing people that he was correct in believing that diet, exercise, and stress affect your risk of heart disease, but that that is common knowledge and not controversial now.  The research is far more advanced in today's world.  If you are interested in Dr. Ornish personally and the history of the study of heart disease in the 1970s and 1980s, you'll probably enjoy this book.  But if you are serious about educating yourself on heart disease and how best to avoid it, I would recommend Dr. Robert Superko's "Before the Heart Attacks : A Revolutionary Approach to Detecting, Preventing, and Even Reversing Heart Disease" (2003) or Dr. Harlan M. Krumholz's "The Expert Guide to Beating Heart Disease: What You Absolutely Must Know" (2005).  These books are more up to date and provide far more useful information.
