I've been robbed.

I just spent $25 for this hard cover book, and now that I finished it - I feel like burning it! I feel like the authors have jerked me around, led me along so I spent my hard earned money on their three goldarned books - and for what?

Let me explain. When you start an alternative history book on any  era, you begin with a question.  "What would have happened if something had gone differently"  . Here the authors are free to pick from the hundreds of critical events and make a point of departure.

The authors choose a very interesting one. What if Lee have listened to Longstreets advice and made a massive flanking movement to the South at Gettysburg.

The first book of this trilogy covered these fictional events with not only a truely outstanding depth of knowlege of the era, but a breathtaking mastery of suspence and pacing. This was an adventure novel of the first water. A real page-turner with such detail that you felt you were present at actual events depicted in the book. Staying well within the bounds of the possible, it was utterly convincing - even to the knowledgeable reader.

The second novel was not quite as good as the first but it still had fire and held our interest well.

The end of the second novel left the Confederacy in possession of Baltimore - America's third largest city - with a large population (which about half were sympathitic to the Southern cause)and loaded with heavy industry and the technical craftsmen that the South so desperately needed. There was a major diplomatic initutive that won the French over to extending recognition to the Confederacy - there is even some exposition on the French Emperor deciding to dispatch not only troops but state-of-the-art sea going iron clad warships from the French Navy to aid the Confederates (and secure a firmer foot hold in Mexico, naturalmont).

There was an extensive dialogue with a leading Jewish intelectual in Baltimore where some broad hints were dropped about possible last ditch efforts to arm some of the Souths blacks to refil the depleated Confederate ranks.

The second novel ends August 22, 1963. We are left with all these interesting possibilities. All these interesting avenues for the alternate history author to explore.

I bought the third novel and rushed home to read it. As I turned the pages a growing sense of dread filled me - the authors were rushing things, closing off Confederate hopes with such obvious heavy handed partiallity. 

You always see this near the end of a cheap potboiler - the bad guys, who have previously been masterful and clever, quite suddenly become increadibly stupid and make mistake after mistake, while the good guys, who have struggled all the way through the book to put two and two together, are suddenly geniuses and have ever possible break falls their way.

So it was with this book. You have a stupid and drunken Southerner assigned to oversee the vitally stategic B&O railroad main yard. The crafty (and openly partison to the North) yard superintendant not only delays critical Southen supplies and troop movements, he orchestrates a major campaign of sabotage and even sends one of his men to inform the Union forces of these  critical Confederate plans - all without getting caught or even suspected by those dim wit southerners.

You could tell it was all a set up from there, the sense of credibility is gone. Everything and I mean everything goes wrong for those darn rebels. Once the authors partisonship is out in the open, it is clear that history will be repeating itself here.

The third book ends with the South's ignoble defeat- now note this carefully - Lee surrenders on August 30, 1863. 

THIS IS ONLY EIGHT DAYS AFTER THE END OF THE SECOND NOVEL ! You get what I mean by the authors rushing things. And that, friends, is not only straining credibility, it throws it to the winds.

 To use one typical example - the Noble Army of the Potomic which after its smashing defeat at Gettysburg took a full month to recover, somehow after an even more devistating defeat is able to rest, reorganize, resupply and move into position to attack Baltimore with 15,000 troops - after just 9 days - yea, right.

 The pathetic Confederates, somehow have not managed to make any improvements to Baltimore's existing fortificatins, can not seem to even delay a daylight amphibious landing, nor do they fight house to house nor deploy mobile artillery to delay the advance. On the other hand, the dashing Union calvalry, storms into Frederick, and in 3 hours whips up a bomb train to take out a stone bridge, while the stupid Confederates, who have been in full possession of Baltamore for a month, can not round up enough gunpowder to blow up a similar bridge. Thus Baltimore not only falls with hardly a shot, the entire infrastructure is intact!!??!!. Wow, what a break for the good guys ;-) 

This third book is a not just a total disapointment - it is a rip-off. Having raised all these interesting ideas and giving the South two absolutely smashing (if hard faught) victories - the authors whip out the climax - the totally collapse of the Southern armies like a cheap tent in just one week.

In case anyone has forgotten, even without those smashing victories and the possession of the critical city of Baltimore, the South managed to fight on - dispite General Grants best efforts until 1865 !

This book was a cruel disappointment. There was no follow up of all the interesting ideas raised in the second book. It seems like the authors lost interest and just slapped together a jury rigged ending to please the house.

Yep - the good guys won, (yawn).

One had hoped for more courage and intelectual honesty from the authors
