For me, Krazy Kat by Jay Cantor was the third in a sort-of trilogy of novels that retold the stories of various comic book type characters.  Zorro (maybe not a comic book hero, but definitely close in fashion) by Isabel Allende and It's Superman by Tom DeHaven were retellings that were faithful to the original characters and stories and both were delights to read.  Krazy Kat is not, but it's not the fact that it is revisionist that makes this book fail; instead it's the fact that it's a mess.

For those unfamiliar with Krazy Kat the comic strip, this book should definitely be avoided, as it would be like trying to watch a single episode of a serial and understanding instantly what's going on:  it just won't happen.  You need the history to get the present picture.  But for those who dare go in without this familiarity, I offer this brief description:  Krazy Kat was a comic strip that ran in the first half of the 20th century.  Krazy was the main character, who loved Ignatz the Mouse.  Ignatz did not return the feelings, instead choosing to constantly bean Krazy Kat in the head with a brick.  But Krazy only thought of this as a sign of affection.  The third character was Offisa Pup, who loved Krazy and would run Ignatz off to jail.  

It was a simple concept, but brilliantly executed, so through the decades, the strip remained fresh and is considered by some to be the best comic strip ever.  In particular, it was a favorite of various big name celebrities such as Walt Disney and Charlie Chaplin.  Even now, among its fans, Krazy Kat is considered more than a comic strip.  It is considered art.

Cantor's novel focuses on the premise that Krazy and Ignatz viewed the atomic bomb test in 1945 New Mexico.  For Krazy, this forced her (Krazy's gender tended to fluctuate in the strip) to accept reality in a way she never had before.  Suddenly, the bricks began to hurt.  Krazy retires from the strip and becomes something of a recluse.  Ignatz, who wants to get back to work, tries to cure her.

The novel is told in five sections:  the first section tells of the onset of Krazy's problems.  The second section deals with Ignatz's psychoanalysis.  The third has them getting involved with motion pictures; the fourth with them joining a revolutionary group and the final one deals with their "romance" in an off-beat manner.

I imagine that this novel would have a very limited appeal.  First of all, it would only be read by those familiar with Krazy Kat, but many of those people would be fans and would view this as a desecration of their favorite characters, especially in the last, mildly pornographic portion of the book.  So it would only possibly appeal to those who can take the abuse these characters will get.  Fan as I am of the strip, I'd still be willing to read something revisionist if it was done well, but here it isn't.

This book, as stated before, is a mess.  Cantor, in his attempt to be literary, often fails in his attempt to be readable.  This book was a bit of a chore to read, with barely enough quality to merit two stars.  The humor is either overly subtle or like that brick to the head.  This may be one of those books that gets better the more times it's read, but I don't know if it's worth the effort.  My recommendation is to skip this book and buy a collection of the original strips instead (many of which will cost almost the same).
