 It seems to me that there is FAR too little focas on the entireity of those who suffer from eatig disorders and self injurous behavior. I do mean suffer, because there is more to the whole picture than hurting themselves.
 It is very frustrating being a male who suffers from and seeks treatment for both eating disorders and self injurous behaviors,  seeing the myriad of the same stuff written up over and over by different people. Some of them have good things to say, the voice of experience in some cases; and there are many many more that works which are written for the sake of writting alone, or maybe their intentions are vaild, in wishing to further the public acknowledgement/awareness of such disorders.
 It is mildly vexing to read the summaries of books on ED and SI [Eating Disorder(s) and Self Injury respectively]and find that evry single title ive seen to date has been about young women. it IS true, sadly, that 2% of american women suffer from ED and/or SI while less than .02% of american men suffer from either, let alone both. Still, i think it is something that almost requires at the very least MORE attention. 
 That said, it is borderline offensive to read of these perfect people leading perfect lives and for whom either SI or ED or both have a minute if even quantifiable rule on even the most menial of day to day events. i cannot stress enough how large an impact such disorders have in one's own life, as wel as those around you.
 Most anything that perpetuates in anything but a negative light, the stereotypes causes problems. real and tangible problems. it unermines the legitimacy of those who knowingly or otherwise conform to said stereotypes, and additionally it creates a general callousness by means of saturation, on the part of the genral public, toward those who do suffer; creating a sort of "they dont deserve help 'cause they started because of a book/tv show/movie" mentality.
 On a more vitriolic note: nobody has business writting about or speaking with authority on any first-hand subject material, without having been there first hand to know whats going on where others cannot see. doing so is much much more damaging to the uninitiated getting a fair picture of a given situation than any out negative publicity because 'the most dangerous enemy may well be a trusted friend uninformed'
