The preceding two reviews are each from opposite camps, and are both equally useless.  One says the book is completely bad because of its religious bias, which I don't think is fair or accurate.  The other review says that the first reviewer is wrong good without any discussion of why.  This book is not useless, even to those outside it's target audience; neither is it particularly good even for that audience, and I dispute the implied claim that being written from a Christian perspective makes it inherently better than a similar secular book.  

What this book suffers from is not bad writing; it's a bad title and description.  This is NOT a secular book.  While it's an exaggeration to say that God or Jesus are mentioned in every line, this is quite clearly written by a Christian, for other Christians, and the entire work is steeped in biblical references.  

However, that doesn't make it a "piece of crap."  What it does make it is a poorly-titled and (at least here on Amazon) -marketed book.  This work should state its bias, if not in the title, then at least in the subtitle.  It is NOT a general guide on storytelling, which is what both its title and ad blurb appear to indicate.  It contains enough Christian references to distract even most Christians I know, never mind someone not from that religious tradition.  And that is exactly what Christianity is; a religious tradition.  It is NOT the one and only source of grace or divinity.

So, that statement ought to help you determine whether you can get any use from this book.  If you read that and said, "blasphemy," or regarded the statement as a one-way ticket south for my soul, this is probably right up your alley.  If you said, "hmmm. he may have a point," be wary of this book.  And if you said, "right on," or any permutation thereof, steer clear.

That said, it's not badly written, although there's nothing here you won't find in a half-dozen other books on storytelling.  In fact, unless non-biblical stories are patently offensive to you, I would say many of the others would probably serve you better (Ramon Ross' "Storyteller" is particularly good, as is Jack Maguire's "Creative Storytelling").  They contain more in the way of actual advice.

Basically, what this book has going for it is precisely what the marketing of it seems to have ignored; it's storytelling advice told from a Christian (and, while I don't know the author's background, I would guess somewhere far right at that; you know, the kind of folks who use the word "grace" regularly, and they're serious) perspective.

If that sounds like your cup of tea, you'll probably enjoy this book. 
