Since the previous reviews by prof. McCauley and Tim Beazley were so withering and detailed, I don't think I can improve on their superb critiques, so I thought I take a different approach in this review, showing how Creationism as a theory and "science" compares with more rational and scientific methods of analysis, and how it ultimately results from an unfortunate tendency of the human mind.

I was discussing religion vs. science recently with someone, and he remarked that although science may have no need of God, science isn't all there is to human thought. He said even though God's existence may be unprovable, that doesn't mean there aren't reasoned arguments in favor of it. So I thought I would discuss that a bit.

At least on the surface, he's correct. The whole field of Natural Theology attempts to deduce God's existence from his handiwork. I went to the trouble of reading a classic text on the subject used for Ph.D. programs in Theology once. And anyone who's read Thomas Aquinas's Summa Theologica can't fail to be impressed with what a great logician and mind he was. But although I was quite impressed on how much intellectual ingenuity and logical gymnastics had been expended to prove the existence of God, unfortunately the whole enterprise rests on a probably false premise--which is that God exists a priori and that it is the job of natural theology to therefore go look for proof of that fact.

So although I was impressed with the logical edifice the theologians had built, the whole house is constructed on a single and probably false premise of a foundation. And without that foundation the whole structure comes tumbling down.

But there's no doubt he was right when he said that science isn't all there is to human reasoning. I've read enough theology to know that, and I've read dozens of theologians back when I was educating myself on this topic, too many to list here. It's just that I find the whole field, unlike science, lacking in substance, lacking in demonstrable results, and likely based on false premises to begin with--which science is not.

He also said one other thing, which is that all science is tentative, and nothing is ever really settled, by definition. Why should God's existence have to meet a higher standard of proof than the theory of evolution through natural selection, for example?

There is some truth to the statement that everything in science is probably tentative. Philosophers have pointed out that science proves nothing and its conclusions are partial and its methods inferior to pure logic. The only truths exist in pure mathematics and formal logic--but that's because their proofs are really elaborate tautologies.

That being said, however, there are degrees of "tentative" in science. There is really a whole spectrum from tentative to quite well established, so characterizing all of science's conclusions as "tentative" is really oversimplifying. Some things are so well established and the amount of evidence is so extensive and massive that they're unlikely to be disproven at this point. Evolution is one of them. And I don't expect Newton's Law of Gravitation to be repealed anytime soon. 

And although no true scientist claims that the theory of evolution is complete, so much evidence exists for its validity and it explains so much that it is unlikely that the theory as a whole will ever be proven false. It is one of the simplest and most powerful scientific theories ever conceived, and in the last 100 years, the sciences of molecular genetics, population biology, cell biology, and others have given it an even more rigorous basis, which weren't around during Darwin's time.

This contrasts with the anti-evolution side of the debate, whose more philosophical, aesthetically oriented, politically motivated, and theologically based theories simply don't explain as much or are as well supported and rigorously thought out. Most don't even get to the level of respected and well validated theory status, which evolution achieves easily, as they are really more like partial and fragmentary hypotheses or explanations.

Take for example, the claim that intermediate species have never been observed, and therefore macroevolution is false. There are actually many intermediate species, such as eohippus and mesohippus in the case of the modern horse, and there is even more evidence of intermediate species in the case of primitive plants and trees, since their parts fossilize more easily. Anyone who doesn't believe this should read the great botanist, K.R. Sporne's book on paleobotany, The Morphology of Gymnosperms, one of the very fascinating botanical books on this subject. Because of this fact, for many gymnosperm genera (which is the group that contains pines, firs, spruce, larches, redwoods, sequoias, hemlock, etc.) we actually know of more extinct species than extant ones, making the evolutionary sequence much easier to see.

In any case, even if intermediate species didn't exist, we have species whose genes still contain intermediate developments, such as cetaceans which are occasionally born with a leg rather than a flipper or a fin. Evolution handles this easily, whereas the anti-evolutionary theories cannot, since cetaceans are thought to be land mammals that returned to the sea. They didn't lose the genes for legs and arms, however,; they were merely repressed, and sometimes something goes wrong in the gene transcription process and a leg is produced. This is one difficulty Creationism has never been able to overcome.

But getting back to the earlier question of truth vs. uncertainty in science, while the statement might be true on purely logical grounds, on practical grounds, the success and the superiority of experimental science over methods that still use armchair speculation and analysis, which is what theology and philosophy do, is there for all to see. Two thousand years ago, the systems that philosophers were creating from their armchairs made the science of the day seem quite humdrum and piecemeal by comparison.

However, this is now many centuries later, and although it took some time for all the details of the scientific method to be fully worked out and its power appreciated, there is no doubt at this point that science has far surpassed philosophy and theology in demonstrable results and knowledge, both practical and theoretical. And most of that knowledge has been gleaned in only the last 100 years. Contrast that with what has been achieved in the previous 4000 years of philosophy and theology. There's simply no comparison.

I had one last comment to make here. One of the odder and more unfortunate intellectual tendencies humans have (including very intelligent humans who should know better) is a fascination and apparent predilection for solipsistic forms of knowledge that give priority to the individual consciousness over that of empirical knowledge.

This tendency is especially strong in the west because of our traditional emphasis on the individual ego and individual consciousness, and it is to a great extent responsible for humans having a predilection for things like religion and theological speculation. If my own mind is the ultimate arbiter of truth, then my intuition or logical conclusions that God exists are all I need for proof.

While this is an interesting epistemological position (and has some small validity--emphasis on the word "small") and philosophers like Berkeley and Kant represent some of the best classical philosophical positions in this tradition, and Kuhn and Polanyi more recent versions, the problem is that all such theories are permeated by a systematic ghost of an illusion, because there is no strong connection to the external world anymore. And the way to keep that from happening is to stay close to the empirical evidence, however fragmentary and partial that may be, as science does, rather than attempting to deduce the entire nature of the cosmos (or God, for that matter), from what one's own individual consciousness is aware of. The success of science, and the failure of armchair methods of speculation, has shown that the psychological attractiveness of such methods is nothing more than a false hope and a potentially dangerous dream and illusion.

Anyway, just a few comments coming from perhaps a slightly different perspective on the science vs. creationism debate. I give the book two stars just for effort, but really, that's being generous due to all the errors, omissions, and problems with the book as a scientific explanation that are discussed very capably here by McCauley, Beazley, and others such as Covelli, Reynolds, and cynical_prophet
