I just recently took the CSET and will be anxiously awaiting the results.  But I can tell you first hand that this study guide alone will not prepare you for all the subtests.  There is simply too much information to know.  I agree with the posters here. The Cliffs guide is a rough, sketchy outline of the test.  The sample tests will not be like the ones you'll see on test day.

Recommended Resources:
1.  Official CSET website - download the practice multiple subject tests.  This is a must.  The outline of what is being tested should also be downloaded.  It guides you as to what you need to know.  It's a lot of topics, but you need to go through it and tough it out.
2.  Cliffs - not a bad idea to include this in your studies.  The history section is decent, but unfortunately you need to supplement the rest.
3.  Barrons - posters say that there are errors.  True, but I thought that the sample test were a little (slightly) better than the Cliffs.
4.  Hirsch's Series - 4th, 5th, 6th grade.  I found a few questions here were actually on the test!
5.  Everything You Need to Know books - subjects in history, math, science, geology, etc.  The colorful pictures can aid you on test day.  They are great if you are a visual learner.
6.  Do use the internet to supplement your studies.  Online searches, encyclopedias, etc.  Get your hands on other study guides to supplement your studies.  Cliffs is not the only one out there.
7.  Last resort, purchasing the recommended textbooks for each of the subtests.  This is a very costly one, as the recommended texts are rather expensive.


Not Recommended:
1.  CA Teaching Solutions - I agree with the poster here who had a negative review of this company.  I made the costly mistake of purchasing their CD.  Don't fall for this internet scam company as I hear they are being investigated.
2.  MoMedia - another poor product.  An e-book, c'mon guys.  Even you can make an e-book.  The math in there was not even on the CSET, and it really needed a lot of heavy editing to do.  Get yourself a real book.
3.  Ace the CSET - if you have extra money you want to spend, fine.  But I found that it was more of an entertaining purchase, rather than a serious, academic one.  The questions and quizzes were designed for kids, not students who are preparing to take the CSET.

If you do not agree with the "Recommended List," fine.  But please do not make the same mistakes I did with the "Not Recommended" list.  You will be flushing your money down the toilet and regretting it.  Don't do what I did.  

Purchasing Cliffs is a start, but surround yourself with other, better study guides, go through the recommended list and you should be prepared.  

