The most telling remark I can make about this book, which I picked up for about $5 off a "publishers' overstock" pile in a bookstore, is that I learned far more facts about Mencken from the brief, anonymous wikipedia.org entry than from the 432 leaden pages of character assassination found here.  And... that I wish I had my $5 back.

Teachout (whoever that is) seems to appreciate Mencken as a writer and despise him as a person.  There are two aspects to Mencken's character that can be best understood by noticing two stereotypes he fits into.  Teachout notices neither.  Let me illucidate: (1) Mencken fits into the familiar modern stereotype of "nerd"--- he lived with his mother for most of  his life, and did most of his work in the same bedroom he occupied as a small child.  He was a compulsive worker, tended to avoid entanglements with women, was overweight and out of shape... need I go on? He held at arm's length any female he knew who was interested in  sex (to judge by the contents of their surviving letters to him), only married after his mother died, and married an invalid whom doctors had (correctly) assured him could not live more than 5 years.  After her death, he immediately moved back to the old homestead, living now with his unmarried brother and two servants inherited from his brief married days.  (2) He was self-educated, and so never examined the received prejudices about "alien and inferior races and cultures" and the unworkability of "democratic" institutions he had absorbed as a small child.  The writer H. P. Lovecraft (whom Teachout might never have heard of, and who was also and not coincidentally an ur-nerd) invites very close comparison with Mencken in many, if not in all, such aspects.  Like Lovecraft, he wrote many public and private diatribes against the Jews in the abstract, yet had many close Jewish friends and associates. Like Lovecraft, he tended not to view with alarm the rise of fascism in Europe.

Mencken is still of great interest as a social and political critic, as a scholar of American english usage, and as the master of a prose style so forceful and vivid that it practically leaps off the page and strikes you between the eyes like a vaudeville slapstick. What Mencken needs is for more of his books to be brought back into print and adequately publicized.  Teachout, to his credit, has worked effectively to get more of Mencken into print, but still, on a recent visit to two large bookstores, one carrying new books and one used books, I was able to locate precisely ZERO works by Mencken on any topic.

Let me give HLM himself the last word: "As democracy is perfected, the office [of the President] represents more and more closely the inner soul of the people. We move toward a lofty ideal. On some great and glorious day the plain folks of the land will reach their heart's desire at last, and the White House will be adorned by a downright moron." [HLM in the Baltimore Sun, July 26, 1920.] We had to wait 80 more years, but...
