This book contains some useful historical information and some insights into the mass psychology of booms, bubbles, and busts.

Prechter should have left it at that.  Instead, he offers up predictions.  Big mistake.  This guy bases his forecasts on Fibonacci numbers and so-called Elliott "wave counts."   He labels all market patterns so that they fit the preordained Elliott Wave 5-up, 3-down pattern.  If you see more or fewer waves than he does in any given market move, you just don't understand that there can only be 5 waves to the top of a bull market.  He's imposing his theory on the market, but surprisingly enough, the market doesn't care.  It does whatever it wants, in however many waves it wants, and Bob has been very frustrated at the market's aberrant behavior lately.  He got lucky early in his career, but it seems he's been fairly consistently getting the market wrong since missing the '87 crash.  

Any superstitution can "seem" to work if you only look at its happenstance apparent accuracies and disregard its abundant failures.  Keep looking for certain numbers of waves and Fibonacci ratios and you'll find what you're looking for.  Pick any set of numbers or patterns or wave counts, and you'll find those too.  The market doesn't care about any of those things, though.  It's nothing more than an aggregation of billlions of individual choices, which are influenced by an infinite number of factors none of us can ever understand fully.  University studies of various investing methods have found that Elliott Wave, like most, is no better than random stock selection. 

If Prechter had chosen the random method, he and his followers would at least have a good chance of keeping pace with the market.  Unfortunately, he has been getting everything from the Dow, to oil (he thought it was going to $10), to gold (he didn't think it could break $400), to deflation (the "deflation" scare ended shortly after this book came out) WRONG in the past couple of years.  He apparently STILL believes that the Dow will go to 400 (not 4,000 but FOUR HUNDRED) because his charts tell him it should (they've been telling him that since about 1990, actually).  Prechter doesn't understand demographics or economics or markets or the monetary system, all of which render "Dow 400" among the goofiest of forecasting absurdities -- unless you believe a giant asteroid will hit and wipe out two thirds of the population (I don't think Prechter is counting on that).

Our debt-heavy economy may have a significant crisis soon, perhaps by the end of the decade.  It will most likely be spurred on by inflation and rising interest rates.  But it's not happening now and it's not happening in the way this author has been prematurely forecasting for over a decade.

This book came out near the bottom of the 2000-2002 stock bear market, just in time for a reader to short stocks as they began a new bull market.  How typical.  While promoting the book, Prechter said it was "definite" that stocks would "crash"
in 2003.  He said that 2003 would be "the best year yet" for bears (short sellers).  Late into 2003, when it was clear that the market had proven him wrong, Prechter declared on a radio show that by the end of 2004, the Dow would "certainly" fall below 5,000.  Wrong again!  Since his Fibonacci turn dates and Elliott wave counts fail to portend the future, maybe next he'll tell us he's found the secret code to the stock market from the text count of Nostradamus' writings.

Bob Prechter couldn't call the market if it was listed in the Yellow Pages.  This guy couldn't time the market if you gave him a stopwatch.  He's throwing out guesses and misleading people by describing them as "definite" and "certain."  He's either a liar or a true believer in his own irrational superstitions.  In either case, he's not credible.

Here's all you really need to know: Buy dividend stocks.  Buy short-term bonds.  Buy gold.  Hang on to them.  Do that and you'll do better than you will trying to follow the prognostications of market gurus.  Plus, you'll have a lot more time to devote to family, fun, and productive activities
