I'm fascinated by the rave reviews for this text. I used it for a community college stats course and once I was in the classroom with it, I became aware that I had some problems. It is true that it's written in a friendly style and has plenty of exercises, but I found it to be poor preparation for my students who will be going on to higher levels of statistics in behavioral science courses.

I found myself explaining, more times than I wish to recall, how formulas look different in other statistics books, and I was disconcerted at the lack of use of symbols that one usually sees in beginning statistics courses. Simple terms most commonly used in statistics were not introduced at all, and most statistical tests were not mentioned. Many students found it to be cumbersome and a bit overwhelming. 

It's my own fault, really. I did not spend enough time perusing texts. And my familiarity with statistics prevented me, when looking it over, from realizing how much was really missing. I realized that my students would enter bachelor's programs lacking some very basic information that is always used in statistics for the behavioral sciences. Most of my students plan to earn graduate degrees; I had to spend quite a bit of time preparing notes for them as well as lectures explaining formulas, symbols, and terminology that "some of" their higher courses might use. And with nary a mention of ANOVA or any other higher level tests, I felt I really had done my students a disservice.

I began to wonder - have I been out of school so long that things have changed this much and I'm not aware of it? But - as I am teaching at a state college, stats texts started trickling in from other publishers. I saw that it was not me. This massive text, costing my students $120, is lacking quite a bit that they should be exposed to - to better prepare them for future statistics studies in the behavioral sciences. This was certainly a bitter lesson for me! I had to waste far too much time putting together information that was missing just so my students would have the course they should have.

I recommend Sally Caldwell's text, "Statistics Unplugged" for beginning students - at least in behavioral sciences programs. It's a third the cost, a third the SIZE, and much more reader-friendly. And it contains the information that I had to supply to my students just so they would get what they paid for. 

I do not recommend this book. I'll certainly be much more careful in future when choosing textbooks
