This is the first book I've read on 7 card stud, and I found it helpful for giving me the basic concepts. It's easy to read and you can get through it in a few hours. The concepts aren't particularly deep. It's in "42 lessons" although some of the "lessons" are less useful than others: Lesson 1, for instance, is one page that says "It takes the right 'stuff' to win at poker".

Things do get better, but I found the concepts a bit high level and could have done with much more illustration. There is one lesson (17) that has some examples of 3rd street hands but it's not enough.

For a book published in its present form in 2004, I would have expected to see some mention at least of internet play, but it is entirely focused on live play. In fact only on live play in Las Vegas - no information how to adapt to European card rooms for example.

Another ommission (and maybe this is to prevent confusion, as starting hands are quire different), is there is no mention of Hi-lo, which is quite popular these days.

The book encourages you to play in a "straightforward" way at these limits (medium and low)... however this means that it doesn't tell you how really good players play. I found the advice fairly sound in the $1/2 room (the second lowest) on PartyPoker, but anything above that and the players are far more aggressive and you'll probably start losing. 

Importantly, there's little mention of how to vary your starting hand requirements depending on the size of the antes. This makes a big difference because for example on PartyPoker the antes are the same size on the $.5/1 tables as for $2/4 and you have to vary your play accordingly.

Editing is sloppy and I found quite a few glaring mistakes. For example in Lesson 8 it talks about an increase in antes from $1 to $3 and calls it a 300% increase (actually a 200% increase). And lesson 42 has 2 whole paragraphs from earlier in the chapter repeated at the end clearly by mistake.

Despite the ommissions and sloppy editing it does contain some good ideas and I'd recommend beginners read it. I haven't read any other books on the subject so I can't say if this is any better or worse. ;
