First the good points:

This book is quite well-written, and an excellent overview of many competing "therapies" for autistic children.  Both myself and my sister have worked extensively with autistic children, and we have family members who suffer from both autism and Asperger's syndrome.  But....

This book is EXTREMELY biased--and sadly, not altogether true.  The Lovaas method is praised as "recovering" children from autism, and though Mrs. Maurice repeatedly states that her children are "recovered," from the evidence she herself provides, it's fairly clear her children were not "autistic" to begin with.  It seems that while her daughter may have had some mild-to-moderate form of developmental disorder, she was obviously not autistic (and the idea that her daughter "recovered" in a matter of mere months is ludicrous).  Even sillier is the story of her youngest son, who does not seem to have developed any indications of autism beyond being a late talker.  It seems as if Mrs. Maurice found doctors who told her what she wanted to hear, and then became obssesed with "recovering" her children.  Clearly her daughter benefitted from the early intervention, but Maurice's story lacks credibility.  For those who have children with true autism, Mrs. Maurice's story of a "miracle cure" will prove more devastating than encouraging.  (A particularly tragic story of a woman named "Lucille" is appended to the book, who upended her family's life to enroll her autistic son in a Lovaas-based program--partly on Maurice's advice--and whose son has so far made little progress).  There are autistic children who do become very high-functioning, even mainstreamed, but deficits remain.  That Maurice's children "recovered" so fully and rapidly is proof that they were never autistic to begin with.  At her interview with her child's behavioral therapist, she states decisively, "Anne-Marie IS going to recover."  Of course--since she'd already decided in her mind that her daughter was autistic, it was easy enough to then declare her "recovered" a few months later.

Maurice seems not to understand that autism is a "spectrum" disorder, and she accepts as faith that it is a completely neurological disorder.  Much like depression, autism can have either biological or psychological causes, and the root cause is not always so clear.  At one point she notes "Failed bonding is a result of autism, not the cause"--but again, this isn't always true.

Even more biased is her presentation of the various alternative therapies for autism.  She rejects all medication therapy; various nutritional approaches (such as those for food allergies and Vitamin B) are briefly raised and then dismissed.  Her extreme prejudice towards holding therapy belies her own statement that she believe it to have some "real" if "limited" worth.  She paints Dr. Martha Welch as a dangerous flake, a gross libel.  Dr. Welch may well have been a bit New-Agey for her tastes, but I have seen children benefit enormously from it.  

Even more dishonestly, she viciously pans Virginia Axline's seminal "play therapy," which has stood the test of time and which, again, I have personally seen the benefits of.  It is true that behavioral therapy has an excellent track record in terms of helping children become higher-functioning, but no one therapy is a "magic bullet."  In my experience, children benefit from an integrated program which includes behavioral, speech, play, and nutritional therapy (and very often also medication, though the author does not explain her animosity toward it.)  

Lastly, though I am not indicting the author for being rich, she blithely ignores the fact that the average parents (not working on a Wall Street, not a nonworking wife who has a full-time nanny anyway, not living in a fancy Manhattan prewar co-op, etc.) cannot afford to have this type of intensive treatment brought into their homes, and must instead become advocates for their children within the local school system.  Maurice does supply some valuable information on the appeals process with schools  and HMOs.  But if you are the parent of an autistic child, think again before reading this book.  It will likely hurt your feelings, and what good information it provides is readily available elsewhere.     
