This book is terrible! It's horribly written complete with dialogue that is as trite and flat as a bad 80s sitcom. It starts off with a passive unemployed stay-at-home father whose wife appears to be having an affair. It then develops into a highly boring and implausible tale about nanoparticles trying to take over the world, or trying to eat us all, or something. I don't think Crichton ever really got that far in his thinking.

***possible spoilers below***

This book is very important in pinpointing a few useful life-rules:

1. Anyone who looks like they have lost weight/bulked up is dangerous! (Those nanoarticles are deadly, but boy, do they help ones' body image)

2. There is nothing much out-of-the-ordinary about a mother slapping her baby when she gets home from work. In fact, if anything, you should always be the one to apologise...it doesn't matter for what.

3. If you're trying to get a few crazy nanoparticles to rule the world, make sure the FIRST thing you do is call in the main guy who is able to destroy your whole big plan.

4. Nanoparticles bear a striking resemblance to sandflies. They say they're thousands of times small than a hairs' breadth...but don't worry, when they buzz around you'll see them no problems. They also have the ability to bite.

The whole things is so badly written from start to finish that it wasn't even a  guilty pleasure! The characters are all so one dimensional and the whole thing towards the end (Ricky and Julia being coated in nanoparticles?!?!) is just ridiculous. 

Plot holes are abound, for example, why on earth would this thing need to be transferred via saliva/kissing? They're nanoparticles! If they can buzz around and take differennt shapes etc, then surely they can fly into whatever or wherever they wish.

The BIGGEST surprise for me was that in the end, our 'hero' manages to save the world from these critters with explosions, a trusty sidekick, and some kind of virus that the plant has been haroburing all along.

If someone can give me back my 2 days that I spent reading this rubbish I'd be eternally grateful. I'd ask for my money back, but the book was given to me for free by a bookstore. Obviously they knew its true worth
