I first picked up on the Anita Blake series a little over a year ago. I was absolutely enthralled. Not only was the main character witty, intelligent, and kick-butt, but there was a memorable set of supporting characters to see her through. Who can forget Zerbrowski's antics (even in the worst of times) or the cold-hearted killing of everyone's favorite bounty hunter? After reading my share of the books and floating around to some of the other reviews here on Amazon, I am left wondering the same thing many of the other fans are: what happened?

I just finished Narcissus in Chains. Normally when I finish a book, I'm left with a sense of fulfillment, like I've accomplished something. Unfortunately, that was not the case. I've always found this series to capture me from the get-go, but trying to convince myself to read this one was hard. Not only was the plot rather weak, but Anita seemed to keep on debating the same situations over and over. Jean-Claude, Richard, Micah, and even Asher seem to plague her thoughts. And although she will do anything to save a member of her pard, or anyone else for that matter, her focus always seemed to drift back to the boys. And did anyone else notice the repetitiveness in the writing? Hamilton used the exact same wording for certain feelings or actions throughout the book. Unlike the earlier part of the series, the writing in Narcissus in Chains is less imaginative and less memorable. On top of it all, come the end of the book, we have this bad guy who I can't even remember where he came from in the first place!

My favorite part of the books has always been Anita's police work. I am honestly ten times more interested in her career than I am in her love life. I miss having a tight, intense plot that flows, instead of drifting around like some kid with a short attention span. And as pointed out in the book, the charming Anita Blake we used to know and love really has become a monster. A literary disaster of a monster.

Although the reviews for Cerulean Sins are probably just as grim as the reviews for Narcissus in Chains, I plan to go ahead and continue the series. I can't give up on something that has such great potential, and from the sound of it, this next one has a more recognizable plot. I can only hope. Unfortunately, I believe that Obsidian Butterfly was probably the last of one of the best series and best characters ever created
