I was so excited when a friend (knowing how much I'd loved "The Secret Life of Bees") sent me a copy of "The Mermaid Chair." That excitement was dampened a bit when I read the story synopsis-- as a Catholic, I'm heartily tired of stories involving monks, priests or nuns having illicit affairs. Deciding to give Kidd the benefit of the doubt, however, I plowed ahead and started reading.

My initial opinion of the writing was poor, and it remained as such throughout the tome. In "Bees," Kidd wrote magically-- her words were as almost as sweet as the honey she penned about. This mermaid tale, however, was a completely different animal-- the style was totally altered, almost as though it was written by another (and much less talented) author. Basically, it didn't flow; it moreorless limped from chapter to chapter.

I also found the main character very hard to like or root for. I didn't mind that she was having a midlife crisis-- some people have their most interesting experiences as a result of such inner conflict-- but her reaction to it was childish, petulant and ultimately harmful to her supposed loved ones. For example, instead of telling her husband what's on her mind (a husband who, incidentally, is described as nothing but genial and accommodating), she runs away and has an affair. I would've been much more inspired by this character if she'd channeled her passionate energies into something else, something bold and brave and true-- NOT avoiding her husband (as though he, not she, were the reason her artistic aspirations were frozen) and having sex with a monk.

And yes, my reservations about reading a story involving a religious having sex were not without merit. I was particularly disgusted when, during one of their romps together, she tasted "the wine" in his mouth left over from Mass. Catholics believe that during the course of Mass, the wine changes into Christ's blood, so you can understand why I found that passage really quite offensive and sacriligious. And maybe that's why, when I grimly finished the book shortly thereafter, I deposited it in the wastebasket rather than in a donation pile-- I would hate to pass such a story on.

All in all, I found nothing to praise in this book, nothing that inspired me as "Bees" did, nothing that made me nod and smile and feel enriched afterward. Instead, I was by turns bored, irritated and offended. I didn't expect a "Bees" copycat, but I did expect, when leafing through those pages, to feel the magic again. It just didn't happen
