If you love Alice (as I do) you'll have probably have a hard forgiving her for this one. Although the title is "Chocolate Holidays : Unforgettable Desserts for Every Season" this book (as mentioned in the Editorial Reviews above) is actually "A Year in Chocolate : Four Seasons of Unforgettable Desserts" in papberback form (the printing info states, "This book first appeared in hardcover as A Year in Chocolate : Four Seasons of Unforgettable Desserts"). If Alice was going to bless her fans with a reprint surely "Cocolat" would be the steller choice (esp. since it's been going for $100+ for very good copies on auction sites and third party reselling) but instead we're given a retitled book that (see reviews) isn't her signature work. 

I have both "Chocolate Holidays" and "A Year in Chocolate" and the main difference is that Alice dropped her editor and managing editor from the Acknowledgements :-) The number of pages hasn't changed (a good thing for the editor: the references still work :-) The "new" book claims to have "an extended section on ingredients, equipment, and decorative touches and detailed notes on how to customize the recipes to use the chocolate of your choice"... hmmm, let's see. Hey! "microplane" is now spelled "Microplane"! And the listings for Pastry Tips and Pastry Brushes have been flipped! Pastry Brushes goes first now!!

The only added feature (the aforementioned "detailed notes on how to customize the recipes to use the chocolate of your choice") is the "Chocolate Note" that appears on some (not all) of the recipies. Calling this feature "detailed" is a bit of a stretch, especially since many of these Notes consist primarily of "You can use any domestic bittersweet or semisweet chocolate that does not have a percentage on the label, or any boutique or imported brand marked 50 to 72 percent." Wow. Thanks. *Cough*

I love ya, Alice, but you could have done yourself (and your fans) a greater service by publishing this tome under its true title ("'A Year in Chocolate : Four Seasons of Unforgettable Desserts' Second edition, featuring a few cosmetic tweaks but the same pics") or, even better yet, given yourself full justice and treating us to another edition of "Cocolat: Extraordinary Chocolate Desserts" (a book that could be reissued without revision and still be worth rebuying 8-
