I was excited to read this book, as I have often thought about subscribing to the IBD (I've picked it up & read it several times at the library).

So I bought this book to try it out. I've lost all respect for this author & the IBD. Here are just a few of the problems:

(1) Frankly, it doesn't work: I picked 10 stocks & applied the CAN SLIM formula, and the portfolio did worse than my S&P 500 index fund.

(2) The method is deeply flawed: First he gives the steps to CAN SLIM, which is mostly common sense. "Increased trading activity indicates a stock may go up or down in the near future."  Duh. Next, he says the formula might not work in a Bull or Bear Market (which explains why my portfolio didn't work). Then, if you follow a footnote, you will read that it might not work in a Flat market either. !!! THEN he lists all these other caveats where the formula might not work. Excuse me? Just under what circumstance will this formula work? Full moon, on an even numbered month & odd numbered day, while sitting under a Sycamore tree? This is very fuzzy logic.

(3) It's terribly complicated: even if it did work, the daily research and effort to make your picks is not worth the payoff. There are much better books & newsletters out there, that make quarterly & annual recommendations that require much less research AND they pay off better. Try Bob Brinker's Marketimer, the book Dividends Don't Lie, or Adding to Your Financial Portfolio... by Christensen, et al.

(4) It's politically motivated (and naive): This guy actually thinks that Bush's economic policy is solid? It's difficult to find even a single Republican in the Congress who sincerely believes that a $6 trillion debt is a good idea. But William O'Neil not only believes Bush's overspending is a terrific idea, he applauds him for it & lobbies for Bush's economic policies. Amazing. 

And, if you follow this advice, you too may one day be in debt by $6 trillion.

Bottom line: look elsewhere. I had thought Investors Business Daily was a reputable publication, but now I know better. I don't know how the IBD manages to stay in business with this horribly simplistic advise
