First question: Did we really need another profile of Tony LaRussa, already the most over-exposed manager in major league baseball? Ever since he popped up in the early 80s, the media has fawned over his every move, evidently impressed by his ability to pull a double-switch and glower at the same time. Dude gets more ink than Brad and Angelina -- maybe they share the same publicist.

But if you're as big a baseball fan as I, it's only a matter of time before you succumb to the hype and purchase this universally praised account of (as the title suggests) three nights in August ... i.e., a feeble re-make of 'Nine Innings' spread out over three games so the writer won't have to concentrate as hard. I finished the book in two sittings, so I can't honestly sit here and say that it stank.

Or can I?

The central premise of the book is as obnoxious as its subject, namely the aforementioned manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, one Tony LaRussa -- attorney at law, in case you needed reminding. According to one Buzz Bissinger, LaRussa's an old-school throwback, a balls-out 'real man' in a baseball universe increasingly lorded over by timid 'thirtysomething' geeks who wouldn't know a jock strap from an iPod nano. Yeah man, those guys just sit in front of their computers all day, crunching numbers, but me, Tony L, I go by my gut! I've got 25 years of experience ovah heah, and I make my decisions the old-fashioned way! If the stats tell me to pull my starting pitcher, maybe I will, maybe I won't -- I'm going to walk to the mound and SMELL him first. Think those MBA Moneyball twerps know what a pitcher smells like? They don't even chew tobacco, mang.

Yeah, well, interesting theory. Trouble is, after taking cheap shots at such stat-head losers as Bill James and Theo Epstein, our man LaRussa gets praised for obsessively analyzing pitcher-hitter matchups. That's right -- the guy that every baseball writer hypes as a genius is making out his lineup cards based on some guy going 3-for-7 against Kerry Wood. What the *&^%? Per Bissinger, we shouldn't rely on statistics -- unless they're based on impossibly small sample sizes. 

Another flaw in this anti-number, pro-intangibles screed is that we never actually see LaRussa go *against* his statistics. Seriously. I mean, if the whole purpose of the book is to illustrate that you have to look beyond the numbers and size up the player himself, shouldn't there be some instances where Big Tony plays a hunch that goes against all logic and pays off huge? or where T straightens out a player with a bad attitude, or picks up a guy in a slump? You'd think so, wouldn't you? Yet such instances are strangely absent.

Why? Because LaRussa's an arrogant jerk who doesn't relate to his players. Hell, he doesn't relate to his *family* either, as one of the book's better storylines makes plain. The book confirms the prejudices held against LaRussa by his detractors: namely, that he's a paranoid madman who micromanages his teams to defeat. This negative nutcase appears deathly afraid of *not* making a move, of being second-guessed by the press... or by himself, perhaps? Bissinger relates his relentless fretting about the #8 hitter on the opposing team possibly getting a hit, thereby allowing them to have their #1 hitter lead off the following inning. It's a mildly instructive bit of insider baseball, but LaRussa treats the issue as if he's launching the Market Garden offensive. Dude, it's the fifth inning and there's still fifty games to go! Pop a Paxil or bolt down some Jim Beam -- you're begging for this guy to relax!

But Big Tony never relaxes -- and his players never will either. Bissinger notes approvingly that LaRussa routinely expects his guys to play as if it's the seventh game of the World Series throughout the 162-game season. As such, his players are forever under the gun, terrified their manager's going to freak out when they fail to advance the runner to third, even if they're playing the Pirates in June. His players will always press, and ultimately, they'll always lose. That's another major flaw in the book: The author presents LaRussa as the ultimate authority on all things baseball, while side-stepping the little matter of his failing to win the big one. He's managed for 25 years and has won the World Series exactly once; he's also lost it on three occasions, getting swept twice. Fittingly, he lost the 2004 series to a team that famously embraced the very stat-conscious maxims that Bissinger aims to debunk. Chew on that, Buzz. (Blaming the loss on a late flight into Boston? Sell it somewhere else, bub.)

The writing, you ask? Let's just say that Boswell and Angell can rest easy. Bissinger's swinging for the fences (!) on this one, desperately throwing in highbrow references regardless of whether they fit. A spate of ill-placed phrases ranging from the Maginot Line to the Hammurabi Code culminates in the downright bizarre description of a blooper as "the kind of existentialist hit that would keep Camus or Sartre in the money." Overwrought much? I half expected to spot Vladimir Lenin Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers behind home plate. Add in a surprisingly irritating decision to italicize the phrase HIT-AND-RUN each and every time it appears -- imagine a Neil Young biography that wrote about all his FOLK ROCK BALLADS or a book on Bush that discussed the WAR ON TERROR -- and you have a sad case of a writer getting in the way of his own story. Bad Buzz, Bad.

What was that story again? Oh right, here it is: Tony LaRussa's a genius because he doesn't rely on statistics like those other guys, except when he does, and you can tell he's sharp because he wins, except when he doesn't.

Did I mention the author gives LaRussa a pass on the issue of steroids, even though Tony's teams benefited disproportionately from turning a blind eye to the problem? It just goes to show you: Never read a book recommended by Tim Russert, the man who ate Mario Cuomo
