Just finished reading "Sweet Poison: How the World's Most Popular Artificial Sweetener Is Killing Us - My Story" by Janet Starr Hull.  It was truly horrible, the worst sort of fear mongering.  Worse than I could have even imagined.  

First off, Janet is maybe an 8th grade level writer, and on top of that much of the book read like a cheap romance novel.  She devotes many largely content-free pages to telling us what is going on inside her relatively empty head.  The book often reads like a comedic essay by S. J. Perelman, in which the main character gives the reader many clues that he is a buffoon, but is clearly unaware of it himself.  

Her peculiar form of logic is on display in the section where she traces her genetic background.  Before the contact with her birth mother, Janet wonders if there might actually be no connection between aspartame and her Grave's Disease.  This is maybe 3/4 of the way into the book, after she has laid out what she considers to be iron clad proof of the evils of aspartame.  Post contact, where she learned that there is no history of Grave's on her mom's side - but without checking into her real father's side of the family - she jumps back to the conclusion that it was aspartame all along.  Inane.  With logic like that, how can you trust anything that she writes?  Just about had me banging my head against a wall. 
 
In the fine tradition of other self help books, the symptoms she lists for aspartame toxicity range from brain tumors to bedwetting (I'm not kidding) and virtually everything in between.  Her evidence is thin and almost entirely anecdotal; and most of her facts are flat-out incorrect.  The scientific underpinnings of her argument are weak at best, dazzlingly wrong at worst.  After researching this issue on the web, it is clear to me that her negative claims regarding aspartame not only border but enter the area of innuendo and slander.  

Rather than convincing me of any bad health effects of aspartame, or the existence of a conspiracy to cover up said bad effects, I instead wonder if this is a metaphorical mortar lobbed at the aspartame industry from the maker or makers of a rival sweetener.  Stranger things have happened.  I am the last person to be an industry apologist, and can sport a tinfoil hat with the best, but aspartame has been researched to death, and I know of no studies that show that it is dangerous for anyone but those with phenylketonuria (1 in 15,000), hence the mandatory labeling.  Drink a beer or fruit juice you will end up with more methanol in your body than from a diet drink.  Ingest an egg, a hamburger, or a glass of milk and you will have much more phenylalanine.  But Janet says these foods are just fine.  It just doesn't follow.

She rags on her poor ex every chance she gets - very tacky.  Of course, she is busy being a mom (she beats the mom thing to death) and a Grave's "survivor" and a self proclaimed aspartame investigative reporter and lecturer, and admits that she neglected her marriage through all of this, but their breakup was due to his "distance" - uhh, OK.  And towards the end of the book she relates how she became a volunteer fire fighter - absolutely no connection to her aspartame harangue (and, quite frankly, who cares?).  There are a lot of these "look what I can do" moments in the book where the author is seems to be angling for a pat on the head or something.

I could go on and on about this book and author.  It's hard to believe it took her years to write it.  I could bat out something equally feeble in a weekend or two, but it would be a challenge to even approach the blindingly idiotic levels reached within it pages.  It's that bad
