In this book, Mr. Biggs does not discuss the fact that before he left Morgan Stanley he was unmasked as having fabricated comments used in his research reports (claimed to be from his plumber, Ron Valentine) [see NYT, May 21, 2000, Sec 3, p2]. Readers and potential readers of Hedgehogging should, however, remember. It explains the view smart investors have had of Mr. Biggs for some time: he is mildly entertaining, but not someone you should use for serious advice. And above all: never give him any money.

Hedgehogging won't challenge this conclusion for a number of reasons. First, it is about what the author does not say. Nowhere does Mr. Biggs actually detail his hedge fund's strategy or process. His discussion of losses from shorting oil are interesting, but only highlight his lack of thought. Is Mr. Biggs just the public face for Traxis, asking for money for no other reason than he has been around a long time?

It is also about what he does say. Several times Mr. Biggs talks about the "special magic" that it takes to be an investment superstar, most memorably when he talks of the "seeing eye" (p111).  This seems to be his core philosophy. Investment success is not made or created, it just happens to those who succeed. 

And it is about his actions. In the end, hedge funds can be judged by only one thing: performance. After initial success with Fairfield Partners, Mr. Biggs does not talk about their returns other than that Fairfield "survived the bear market of the 1970s." He left in 1973. We will all see how Traxis does.

Finally, an attempt to put names to pseudonyms. Most do not precisely match Mr. Biggs' "clues," but many of the details may not be true (remember Ron Valentine).
Superstar Ian (p11): J. Kevin Kenny, Jr., Emerging Sovereign Group
Grinning Gilbert (p15): Steven Cohen, SAC (fantasy amalgamated with Zalmon Gilbert Simmons)
Jock Robinson and Casino Resorts (p35): Robert Wilson and Resorts International
Jim the Trigger (p51): Janus alums ala Warren Lammert and Blaine Rollins
Peter the Great (p63): Henry Kravis, KKR
Tim (p96): Nicolas Roditi
The Bearded Prophet of the Apocalypse (p99): Douglas Kass, Seabreeze
Julian's Guy (p104): Tiger Cub cocktail with likes of Chase Coleman, Thomas Facciola
Dave (p133): David Marvin, Marvin & Palmer
Greg from Mega (p192): Leon Cooperman, Omega
Judson Thomas and his special Wall Street Journal (ch20):  When first written in 1971, the story was clearly fantasy. But today, it is remarkable how Barton has become Judson. "... a big, beefy middle-aged man, faintly disheveled, his shoes spotted. The face was good - strong, sturdy features arranged honestly - but the eyes had been shot away a long time ago and now there was nobody home a lot of the time... Jud knew all the big names in the game like Kingdon, Cooperman, and Druckenmiller, but they disdained him as a hack."
