Edelman's criticisms of index mutual funds are nonsense. Most blatantly, he sets up a false straw dummy, by saying that index funds are claimed to have ZERO trading costs. Rubbish! NO proponent of these has ever said that. Starting with the largest, Vanguard. All providers of index funds (and Exchange Traded Funds) assert that they have trading costs. Edelman surely knows this, yet he goes on to misrepresent index funds. In order to "refute" the "claim" by saying that they do indeed incur these costs. Neophyte readers without any background in financial matters might be taken in. It shows clearly the type of audience that he is aiming at.

Yes, index funds have trading costs. But so do actively managed funds. And the latter almost always do much higher trading. Reflected in the overheads. Index funds have expense ratios (overheads) of around 0.1-0.4%. Active funds are from 0.9-2% or more.

Another claim he makes is that index funds do mechanical buying and selling, without having a human actively consider these decisions. Yet this is a strength of index funds, not a weakness. When an active fund buys or sells, it could be right or wrong. It is not a given that the active fund will even be correct on average. And the current price of a stock reflects this give and take, across all active trading. 

Edelman also says that when you buy an index fund, you could get hit with capital gains, if the fund sells stocks with large gains. But the low trading (=long holding periods) of an index fund, mitigates against this. Active funds are more likely to hit you with capital gains, because they trade much more frequently.

The strongest point he makes about index funds is that in a market downturn, they should underperform active funds. Because index funds must stay fully invested, whereas an active fund can have a cash position that cushions the fall in its stocks.   Intellectually, this is the most plausible scenario for an active fund to outperform an index.

But hey, you know what? In the last US bear market, 2000-2, the main index funds still outperformed most of the large active funds. (Where both types invested across the market.) It turns out there is no guarantee that an active fund's cash position is sufficient to overcome a bad choice of stocks, whose prices fall more than the market averages. This 3rd edition was written in 2003, yet there is no reference to these events. Edelman did not update his remarks from the earlier editions. Sloppy.

He also quotes Forbes as deprecating on index funds. Wrong. Over the last 20 years, Forbes has consistently written favourably on these. Because the Forbes fund surveys and associated advice look approvingly on low overhead (expense ratio). As they have put it several times, the overhead is the most consistent thing you know about any fund, in bull or bear markets. Their surveys have shown that index funds outperform most active funds
