I have the hardcover edition of this book, and I've only tried the recipes in a bread machine.  I wanted to like this book. That said, every recipe I've tried has needed significantly (up to 25%) more liquid. It's not necessarily a reason to avoid the book, but these are not set-it-and-forget-it recipes. 

I wish she had given flour weights instead of just volumes. As we know, volume measurements can give significantly different ratios of dry to wet ingredients. (I admit I haven't gone back to see how she measures flour.)  Of course they can be adjusted, but you have to remember to weigh the ingredients and adjust the recipes whenever you try a new one.  She also measures the capacity of a machine in cups where most authors measure it in pounds of bread.

It's cool that she gives hand, mixer, food processor and bread machine variants for almost every recipe. I wonder if the developers tested every variant or made note of every adjustment made while kneading. 

She could have saved many, many pages by giving the directions for each method once at the beginning, and noting changes from the basics with each recipe -- most of the directions are identical, at least for bread machines. Three paragraphs could be one line, over and over and over again.

As someone else said, most of the recipes in this book are mostly white flour. In a US "whole grain" bread book I expected most recipes to be at least 50% whole grain, but the latest one I've tried (tonight) is 1/3 cup whole wheat flour to 2 1/3 cup white flour -- whole wheat flour is 13% of the total. My modern Norwegian cookbook's basic bread dough is 1/2 whole wheat and 1/2 rye flour -- it's ridiculous that in the US we think we can't make 100% whole-grain bread when the rest of the world does it every day (deliciously!)

Still, there are interesting variations on basic bread; perhaps they would turn out differently if made by hand or with a mixer; and many of the "sidebar" recipes sound tasty. I hoped for easy, healthy, bread-machine bread and didn't need the extras.

I'm sorry to rate it two stars, but I don't like inflating grades and I'm disappointed with the book. Had I known then what I know now, I would not have bought it.  It does not live up to its "whole grain" billing; the size of the book is inflated; and the recipes are inaccurate for bread machines and perhaps other methods.

I did get my Julekage recipe from this author, but from her Great Scandinavian Baking Book.  It is excellent!  Better than Betty Crocker.  Try Laurel's Bread Book and work out the machine equivalents if you want 100% whole grain bread
