A friend loaned me this book, and I found the premise intriguing and the promise of an escape-read appealing. Maybe you do have to be Southern to "get it," as another reviewer claims. 

Though I enjoyed the setting (which was well-described and interesting), a few of the characters (especially the preacher/candidate who gives it all up to God with something bordering right on lunacy), and the consistent battles with hot flashes (a subject I'm learning more about every day), I was brought up short by the offhand racism in both the attitude and characterization of this book. The main character, Lin, considers herself enlightened because she wants to bring water service to the poor black part of her small town, but she makes these kinds of observations: "An Oriental couple--Korean, Japanese, Vietnamese? I could never tell--hovered close to the register...A young black couple with a runny-nosed baby argued in some kind of an indecipherable rap jargon..."  Trust me, there's plenty of this to go around, including a loudly dressed hippy lesbian whose art is all concerned with the organs of reproduction, who (of course) makes Lin very, very nervous. 

Yes, maybe you do have to be Southern to find this amusing. I kept trying to like the book, and failing. I guess since I'm divorced, I am also supposed to be amused by Lin's hatred of men. No men are good, no woman has a happy marriage, any woman who is married is just putting a good face on the fact that her husband is messing around. Love does not exist outside the Breedlove family, apparently, and is only seen in self-sacrificing old white women who show Lin the meaning of real love (it involves forgiving a man everything and changing his Depends). Who does this character think she is, I wanted to ask? She hides a bunch of nice furniture paid for by her husband so the IRS won't get it, shoves it into a garage apartment, and thinks it's a triumph? 

Add in the mawkish conversations between Lin and her in-recovery brother where they sit on the porch and she says how badly she misjudged him and he tears up and says, "That means a lot coming from you, Lin," (this happens over and over and over again, or at least it feels as if it does) and the talky-talky-talky descriptions of corrupt city politics, and I really had to wonder how on earth I was going to finish it. 

Perhaps the most offensive part of the book it is the aborted romp between Grant and Lin. She knows exactly who he is and what he wants, and he goes to a great deal of trouble to treat her with gallantry, even though he is not offering her love. When they FINALLY get to bed, after too many descriptions of his legs and chest and spicy man-tang scent, she keeps laughing at him. When he becomes frustrated and lashes out, she erupts in hatred at the man. "Oh how dare he desire me and not love me! He should be thrashed, the scoundrel! Thank goodness I ate five brownies, got drunk and called a girlfriend rather than have some sex! I am a true Southern lady!" It's baffling, insulting, and representative of the huge ax-to-grind, chip-on-shoulder attitude of this main character. 

I finally had to admit that I found her loathsome and the book tedious, and skimmed about a hundred pages, just to say I finished it. No one else needs to bother.  
