I was a little bit disappointed with this book.
There are two reasons for that.
1This book mainly consists of innuendos and depictions about modern cultures. And there are only a few scientific evidences, which back up his theory.
2,Contrary to his assertion, there are already many scientific researches about modern culture. And those researches don't necessarily back up his theory. But it seems he ignored them. I don't think it's fair.
When we talk about this kind of controversial topic, what we need last is innuendo. But this book was made of that! Especially speculations about the brain had been terrible historically. A lot of scientists made the speculations about the brain and the real life, and they turned out to be garbage during the brain-imaging era. This book isn't different from the critics of modern culture, which he time and again criticized.
Maybe I expected too much. There are lots of researches and articles and reports about effects of modern culture to the brain. But there are few books,especially about the game. So I thought this book would surely offer people a lot of scientific knowledge  
But instead the evidences he cited were the Flynn effect (if you call it evidence), and a few other researches (some games' positive effects to spatial ability and gamers' positive character). which included NONE of the researches about films ,TV ,comics...
 But as far as I know, there are tons of researches, which scanned the brain activity, which was related to modern culture. And it's surprising that he didn't cite any of those in this era I suspect that's because they usually don't support his theory. 
For example, when people play games, their brain activities vary. But usually frontal lobe, which is thought to be the most important part of the high level brain, doesn't work. And even when it does, their activities decrease as players get used to the game. (Though one research indicates parietal lobe, which is related to spatial ability, is activated very much during some games, and that back up the positive effect of games to the spatial ability).
Other researches don't necessarily support his theory, either. Hard-core gamers show bad grades whatever the cause. Hard core gamers are worse at a circuit task, maze tests. Gamers are less logical than others, they don't show higher ability to use information, they aren't more social,  aren't more creative (contrary to the research he cited) though they have more audio-visual skills.. And in my country students' academic ability is worsening. The Flynn effect is O.K. but don't forget that the children's performance of  "GO or no GO task" is significantly worsening.

And researches about TV? Comics? Don't get me start it.
So the conclusion is this. This book consists of innuendos and depictions and a few evidences, which are convenient for him, and ignored all the evidences, which are not convenient for him. And clearly he is exploiting the readers' ignorance in his field.
What he wanted to show was that most modern cultures were good for the overall high level brain function, but the only thing what he showed was that some games were good for the spatial ability. Don't be deceived by his eloquent depictions. This book is a waste of time, if you want fact, not opinions.
