Donald Richie is an extraordinary interpreter of Japanese culture.  He has translated many great modern Japanese books and I'm certain his knowledge of Japanese language is incomparable.  Unfortunately, what he most certainly is not is a legitimate film critic. The damage he does to Kurosawa in this book is unwarranted and small-minded. More than I could take. Richie's understanding of film itself is completely inadequate, forcing him to resort to literary interpretive techniques in order to make up for his misunderstanding of cinematography and the nature of film in general. At the heart of it - he is incabable of "seeing" which is the foundation of Kurosawa's work. If you like wayward, stream-of-consciousness criticism masquerading as serious film criticism you'll certainly get your fill.  But most of what Richie does in this book is lob irrelevant pot-shots at Kurosawa, his personality, "mistakes" and the overriding theme (which becomes readily apparent towards the end) that his last films were just sentimental drivel. In fact I can't think of a single film covered in this book that Richie can bear to like wholeheartedly. Not without an uncomfortable juxtaposition of his true talent (literature) and film criticism - which I found to be completely inadequate. Another gaping hole is his obvious lack of understanding of the process of filmaking, or rather the way in which this process differs from writing in meaning and structure. His tone is pompous, downbeat and arrogant. For Ritchie - Kurosawa IS the film - and that is his greatest mistake - to turn the reader's attention to the "novel" of Kurosawa. Over and over he naggingly searches (pouring over grains of sand)for a continuity in Kurosawa's work that will bring a "literary" motif to everything he has done, that is to say, every disparity that exists between one film and the next is scrutinized under the lamp of literary criticism, and summarily dismissed. I can't imagine anything more inappropriate in a work of film criticism. All in all, this book comes off as a snotty jab at a master filmaker by a master spokesman for Japanese culture who simply does not understand film. I found reading it to be a wretched experience. And I hope you will too
