Let me start by saying that I would have given this book zero stars if I could.  The reviews I've read are all true.  This book is boring, extremely repetitive and a waste of time.  The only reason I finished it was because I paid for it.

I truly believe that Danielle Steel has lost her gift of writing.  She has not published a good book in a long time.  I also think that she's lost her editor, because to me, a good editor wouldn't let books like this be printed.

This story pretty much follows stories she's done before except it's told from the guy's point of view.  There's the rich guy, Charlie, who can't seem to find the "perfect" girl to marry.  He finds a flaw with every one he dates.  He lost his parents at a young age, his sister left school to raise him, and just before he graduated college, she died of a brain tumor.  So of course he's afraid that anyone he gets close to will die or leave him.

Then there's rich Adam, whose wife left him and took their two children with her.  It was a bitter divorce, so he has no desire to ever marry again.  He dates girls half his age and never stays with one long.  His parents blame him for the divorce.  Every time he visits them, his mother let's him know what a huge disappointment he is to the family.

The last of the trio is Gary, a struggling artist.  He has no desire to ever marry or date.

The three men spend the month of August each year on Charlie's yacht, partying and going on and on about how they don't want commitments.  Well of course, each one meets someone, they start to date, they argue, they break up, they have their epiphany and everyone lives happily ever after.  Same old story.

Danielle Steel should stop writing.  You can't tell me she doesn't have enough money to live on.  I for one will not read any more of her books, even a paperback, and I won't even bother renting them from the library.  I won't waste my time having to check the book out and worrying about getting it back on time.  There are better authors available and I'm going to read them
