It's hard to tell.  One manufactures his product out of leftover porcine odds and ends, and the other makes sausages.

John W. "Jimmy" Dean cranks the handle of his hard left Michael Moore-Molly Ivans-Al Franken sausage machine, and produces yet another mishmashed, facile, silly volume on what a bad guy the President is.  It reminds me of the old joke about prison inmates who call out numbers instead of telling the whole joke.  Maybe Jimmy could do something similar for political commentary, calling out "1" for Election 2000, "2" for WMDs, "3" for TANG, "4" for Carlyle Group and "5" for Halliburton, saving him the trouble of writing, and us the trouble of reading, the same old rehashed stuff.

Anyhow, let's examine the actual content of Jimmy Dean's sausage, to see if it consists of pure pork meat -- or tripe.  In his own words...

1.  "what I did not want to do: invent facts, appeal to emotions rather than intelligence, engage in vicious name-calling, and fail to provide documentation" (p xiv).

	A. "...invent facts..."

		i.  The Scooter Libby leak of Valerie Plame's name was "against the law" (p x).  It was?  Says who?  Certainly not Patrick Fitzgerald, who indicted Libby for the supposed cover-up, not the leak itself.  Jimmy even goes on to state that the leak was so deadly serious because of Ms Plame's "undercover status" (pp x, 159).  Ms Plame was undercover?  Says who?  Not Mr. Fitzgerald, who admitted that Ms Plame's cover was known outside the C.I.A.  Actually, Mr. Fitzgerald's exact words were that her status was "not widely known outside the intelligence community" (Fitzgerald press conference, Oct. 28, 2005) which is a lawyer's way of saying "people outside the intelligence community already knew she worked for the C.I.A. so I can't pin that one on Scooter."

		(Call me crazy, but if your wife's an undercover agent, it's not exactly the wisest course of action to write an op-ed in the largest U.S. newspaper announcing yourself as an agent of the U.S. Government. But that's just me, I'm obviously unschooled in the subtle ways of Foggy Bottom.)

		ii. Bush overspending means that there will simply be "no money available to pay for social programs after this Administration" (p xvi).  I'll put my response as tactfully as I can.  Any moron can make an outrageous claim about the cause of an event occurring in the past (e.g., Bush invaded Iraq to help Halliburton) and it's hard to definitively refute.  However, when a person makes a claim about the cause of a future event, well then, all you have to do is wait and see whether that person was correct, or a moron.  Something tells me that Jimmy Dean will be proven to be a moron when, on January 20, 2009, social programs still exist in America.

		iii. Bush removing war protesters from travel routes is an "obvious illegality" and an "unconstitutional" and "malevolent" practice (pp 64-5).  It is?  Says who?  Jimmy's endnotes refer to a lawsuit styled Acorn v. City of Philadelphia, CA 03-4312 (E.D.Pa. 2003).  The lawsuit was dismissed in May 2004.

		iv. David Gregory is "about as low-key television journalist as can be found" (p 71).  I swear I read stuff like this and wonder if it's in there just because the author felt like he needed a laugh.

		v. Bush supposedly announced the "end of hostilities in Iraq" (p 74) onboard USS Abraham Lincoln.  He did?  Actually, he announced the end of "major combat operations" such as mass sorties, cruise missile launches and strategic troop movements.  Exact words: "my fellow Americans, major combat operations in Iraq have ended" (CNN.com, May 1, 2003).

		vi. Relating to war and international law, "very soon" is not the same thing as "imminent" (p 153).  Who does Jimmy think he's fooling? 

		vii. L'affaire Plame shows evidence of a "criminal conspiracy" (pp 175-6).  It does?  Who has been indicted for conspiracy?

	B. "...appeal to emotions rather than intelligence..." 

		i. Bush is "demanding complete control over government information" (p xv).  Oh please.  What totally hyperbolic nonsense.  Has he canceled FOIA?  You know what stuff like this reminds me of?  It reminds me of the morons during the Clinton Administration who were always talking about Vince Foster and Mena Airport.

		ii. Bush tried to disrupt the Florida Election 2000 recount by flying in protesters "all to intimidate Florida election officials" (p 5).  Give me a break.  If Florida election officials can be intimidated by 20 preppies, they have serious emotional problems. 

		iii. Bush is not "Junior" (p 6).  To be a "junior" the son's names must match the father's.  Bush 41 is George Herbert Walker Bush, and Bush 43 is George Walker Bush.

		iv.  Jimmy presents a scenario where Tom DeLay becomes president and passes it off as a real possibility (p 41).

		v. Bush's flight suit is not a "pilot's costume" (p 74).  If Jimmy knew anything about the military, he'd know that it's required gear for safety reasons.

	C. "engage in vicious name-calling..."

		i. Regarding Bush: "no question he is mentally shallow, intellectually lazy, and incurious" (p 8).

		ii. Cheney takes pleasure in power like a "medieval warlord" (p 21).

		iii. The Bush v. Gore Supreme Court majority is called "the gang of five" (p 82).

	I guess these are examples of *non*-vicious name-calling.

	D. "...and fail to provide documentation."

		i. "History has shown that what our government does to others today, it will do to Americans tomorrow" (p 127).  Oh?  Is our government bombing us?  Are U.S. troops firing on us?  Jimmy, a liberal clich does not equal documentation!

		ii. Jimmy claims Karl Rove was responsible for a series of false accusations against McCain in the 2000 primaries (p 4).  The evidence?  Absolutely nothing.  Not a reference in the text, not a footnote, not an endnote.  This is pure character assassination.  Does anyone possibly think that if Jimmy had any hard evidence of Rove's role in Election 2000 dirty tricks, he wouldn't have presented it?

		iii. There is "widespread public opposition" to the Patriot Act (p 128).  There is?  What evidence do you have to support that, Jimmy?  How could it possibly be that the Act just got extended then?

		iv. "the rest of the world was strongly opposed" to the Iraq War (p 142).  Like a lot of liberals (and Frenchmen), Jimmy seems to think that "France" is synonymous with "the rest of the world."  I can assure him that's not the case, and the Brits, Aussies, Danes, Philippines and South Koreans might disagree with him as well.

		v. Bush's Niger yellowcake statement has been shown to be "untrue" from "[c]ountless news media accounts" (p 204).  In fact, the Butler Report confirmed the Brits' intelligence.  Also, the Senate Intelligence Committee Report of July 7, 2004 states: "[former Nigerien Prime Minister Ibrahim] Mayaki said...that in June 1999, [redacted] businessman, approached him and insisted that Mayaki meet with an Iraqi delegation to discuss `expanding commercial relations' between Niger and Iraq....Mayaki interpreted `expanding commercial relations' to mean that the delegation wanted to discuss uranium yellowcake sales" (Report p 42).  Jimmy fell into the classic trap, so common among Beltway insiders but especially of kneejerk liberals, of passing off something as true merely because it has been often repeated.

2. "Inconsistency is not a problem for political gossipmongers and mudslingers" (p 4).

		i. Jimmy claims Bush and Cheney have created "the most secretive presidency" of Jimmy's "lifetime" (p ix), but also states that Bush wants to -- but has not yet -- "turned the clock back to the pre-Watergate...unaccountable and extraconstitutional imperial presiden[cies]" (p ix).  Jimmy by his own words contradicts himself, by implication saying that every presidency prior to Nixon was unaccountable, extraconstitutional and imperial, and that Bush's is not. Go figure. With logic like that, it's no wonder the Nixon Administration got in so much trouble while Jimmy was counsel.

		ii. "by all prior standards" the public had a right to know Bush's medical history (pp 23-24).  Really?  And when did the public ever see Clinton's medical records?  So Jimmy blasts Bush but gives Clinton a pass for the same thing.  What a hack.

		iii. When Bush keeps facts to himself, it's obsessive secrecy; when other presidents do it, it's "better described as confidentiality or privacy" (p 13). In other words, when someone Jimmy likes is president, it's OK to be secretive, but otherwise no.

		iv. Liberals love leaks when the leaks benefit their agenda (pp 66, 69) (they're not leakers then, they're "whistleblowers"), but hate them when they don't (pp 157, 171).

		v. Jimmy actually claims "[s]candelmongering holds no appeal for me whatsoever..." then immediately afterwards goes on to cite eleven supposed scandals in loving detail (pp 189-91)
