I found this book very entertaining and interesting to read. Watts surely excels at presenting his work to as to make it appealing to large non-technical audiences. However, I happen to have a technical background, and while I cannot comment on the sociological value of the results of this new "science of networks," it seems fairly clear that there are no hard results of any significance in this work.

Watts claims to be a mathematician, but all he seems to have done is to construct some simple mathematical models and run computer simulations on these. What's wrong with that, you ask? Well, that is just... how should I put it delicately.. trivial work. No mathematics department would let him get away with a PhD for this... which doesn't really mean anything in and of itself, but this was all the book, written by a self-proclaimed mathematician, has in terms of hard facts or rigorous results. There's a lot of discussion and speculation and interpretation, which is all very interesting, but very little scientifically rigorous original work of any value. 

I noticed some other reviewers saying that this is not an easy read, but is worth the effort. I'm not being the least bit snobbish or arrogant about this, but I found the book fairly easy to read (as would anyone with some knowledge of mathematics), and wouldn't advise any laypeople to waste their time. Don't bother following Watts' intellectual travels as a researcher; it may not be easy to read, but there's not much there anyway.

I haven't said much about the actual content about the book, so here goes. Watts identifies the small world phenomenon, aka I can reach the president of the US through at most six steps, as occurring surprising frequently in the world around us. He sets out to understand the why and how of such a phenomenon. Now this is a rather hard problem to answer in a mathematical framework, because such real world networks are very difficult to model. 

Watts and his PhD advisor evidently realized this, but went ahead and constructed some very simple models of such networks, and tried to analyze these models. So far so good. But even these simple models proved too hard to analyze mathematically, so they had to resort to running computer simulations, and explain the results in qualitative, rather than quantitative, terms. They made some interesting observations, but frankly, this ain't no work of genius, or anything close. Running simulations when one can't analyze a mathematical model is something all too many graduate students in various engineering disciplines do on a regular basis, but most of them don't have the gift of writing and finding the right audience that Watts does. 

In my opinion, these toy models and simulations have nothing deep to say about anything in the real world. Further, in my opinion, this so called new science of networks, which seems to be attracting a fair bit of attention, will have absolutely nothing useful to contribute to any real world problems. In the words of Dennis Miller, that's just my opinion, and of course I could be wrong. But stay tuned, and we'll see
