Again we have some Christians trying to escape biblical and moral requirements.  We have a problem with religion today in that many want to be a Catholic for example but can not comply with the rules.  Each religion does have a moral path or rules of engagement. 

According to Lev. 18 it is a blasphemy for a man to lay with another man.  Jesus himself does not directly say that homosexuality is wrong but he does not attack most sin.  He does however make it clear to "keep my fathers laws".  There are 613 LAWS from G_d (the father) and Lev 18 is of course is part of them.   Christians seem to be occupied with homosexuality though there are many sins just as bad under the eyes of G_D. 

Christians have historically denied the commandment of Jesus to keep his fathers laws  and those two in Mark 12 28-32 and thus by history or culture refuse most of them. Examples of this are: Exodus 20 4th comm. SABBATH, Kosher food laws and many more.  Its as though Christianity was allowed (so it would seem) to pick and choose what G_d wanted.  

Jews look at this issue like this:  The laws were given to the "chosen" and therefore Gentiles must only follow the 7 laws of Noah in Genesis 9. The laws for the Gentiles (NOAH was the first GOYEM-Gentile)  These by the way are paraphrased in Mathew.  So, to a JEW its fine for a Christian to be gay as the laws of NOAH do not state homosexuality as a sin.

Now, there are Catholics and other denominations of Christianity who over the course of history have made sure that certain sins are still treated as such.  This is partly the influence of Paul and the Nicean Council.  If one is a Catholic and is also a homosexual then by the doctrine of this faith you must either repent or leave the faith.  I dont understand why so many try to justify loop holes.  If ones son for example is gay and they are Catholic or for that matter Orthodox Jew then they must be forgiven but...they can not be of that faith.  Rules of engagment.   I am a adult male and can not join the girl scouts becuase of my age and gender. Religions have rules too and if you are unable to follow them by the "book" then try one you can.  Its very simple.  Besides, why belong to a faith or any group that goes against your lifestyle?  Its like a JEW wanting to be a member of the KKK  or a gay man wanting to be Catholic. Rules are rules.  
