I like to find an author and read all their books, not necessarily in order. I find that I get a great liking/disliking for them and decide if I will continue. I found CC's books to be good with the first FBI book I read with Dane Carver. It was good. Damsel in distress and FBI agent friend falls in love with her and they marry all live happily ever after. Then there is the one with the detective, Ben. Guess what,  he falls in love with the damsel in distress and they get married. Then there is Mac and Quinlan, both FBI agent friends of Savich/Sherlock - they too fall madly in love with the women they are protecting/investigating and get married and live happily ever after. Now I am all for a nice romantic twist in a book but it happens in EVERY one. Don't forget the MAZE where Savich and Sherlock fall in love. I did not dislike any of those books but it did get a bit mundane when I started seeing the same outline for the plot there. A lot of the same use of dialogue and words starting popping off the page at me. Just not a lot of new material to hold the interest. 

HEMLOCK BAY was just too much to take. I like the characters Savich and Sherlock - they are certainly written as superagents and superparents. I even liked Lily and Simon in this one. BUT and here the big BUT, the plot! It was just too winding, too unrealistic (not even counting the unexplained supernatural things) and just too far fetched. I was disappointed with this read. Will I read more? Well I have one more of the FBI series here to finish the whole set so yes I will. I will not recommend many of them to friends. I think CC had a great thing going and just went off on a tangent as many of the best selling authors do such as Cornwell (was my favorite until the last few books become recipe plots as well), Grafton (who I had to read five to confirm they were as bad as I had thought on the first one) and Patterson (yes even the great one has some that were actual groaners).

I read a lot - a book every day and a half is what it works out to so I buy several at one time. I just found this to be a waste of my time and very depressing that a best selling author would consider this to be up to par. The recipe is now old and needs perked up. Time to change the ingredients and spice it up
