The premise for this book is quite simple: "They hate us because we are so wonderful"...for three hundred pages Timmerman sets out to assert that the modern terrorist phonomenon can't be attributed to anything the US has done, but rather is rooted entirely in Islamic jealousy for the success of the West

After all we are perfect; it only makes sense that the jealousy harbored by these Islamic barbarians boiled over into spectacular forms of violence...never mind the violence we have been perpetrating in the Middle East, indeed throughout the planet, for th last half century

The generalizations made about Arabs and Islam could be applied to any culture since every culture has hate, every culture has violence, every culture proports to be "superior" to the rest. 

However Timmerman expects us to believe that Islamic hatred is somehow different, somehow more evil, from Western or Jewish hatred.  That blowing up a bus is different than dropping bombs on apartment buildings. That the killing of an Israeli is inherently more evil, more sinful, than the killing of a Palestinian. 

After all our killings are justified, we are fighting a war on the terror! What difference does it make if a few (over 10,000 in Iraq and Afghanistan) Moslems get coaght in the cross fire? Remember, Moslems are bred to hate, why should we feel sorry for them? The Palestinians in particular should wake up every day and thank the Israelis for bulldozing their homes, stealing their resources, pushing them off their land and killing their sons and daughters...these barbaric Palestinians should consider themselves blessed just to be in the prescense of an Israeli...these Palestinians should thank Israel for telling them what to do...after all its for their own good, they are Moslems so they are just to stupid and hateful to think for themselves.

Of course the ethnic cleansing of 3 Million Palestinians from their homes in 1948, or the US support of oppressive Pigs in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Indonesia couldn't have anything to do with this hatred talked about by Zimmerman...no this would be simply to difficult to phathom. Everything can be attributed to jealousy and the purely Islamic phonomenon of anti-Semitism (never mind that Arabs speak a semetic language or that the barbarity of Christian anti-Semitism was the cause of the mass migration of Jews to Palestine). 

Timmerman asserts that the US came to power purely because of our inherent greatness, forget slavery, forger the Native Americans, forget the exploitation of nearly every country on earth...NO! America played by the rules, we are the chosen nation, we are moral people and thats why we are on top and thats why these hateful Moslems are so jealous of our greatness.

Conveniently, Zimmerman only chooses to focus on the most fanatical Moslems and uses them to guage the faith itself. He neglects to mention that similar words are spoken today in American churches and especially Israeli synagogues.  In Zimmermans world, "hate" can me measured with graphs, pie charts and statistics...somehow Islamic hatred is different than the hatred preached in other parts of the world.  

If you are willing to admit America's own mistakes than this book is going to be difficult to believe. I'd give this book 1 star instead of a flat zero because Zimmerman hesitates in calling for the total racial extermination of all Arabs and all Moslems.
