"Drawing  for the Absolute and Utter Beginner" 
 -Claire Watson  Garcia

    There does not seem to be a reason to recommend  this book.    

    The words  "ABSOLUTE  & UTTER  BEGINNER" can fool you.  This not a   "pre-beginner"  book.    This does not offer helpful instruction  that other books lack, at  an utterly basic  level,  but the terms ABSOLUTE  &  UTTER will lead you to think this book is helpful. There is no basic repetition of "absolute & utter"  beginning lessons.   The terms   "absolute"  &  "utter"    do not actually mean that the lessons here might be appropriate for somone  discouraged or intimidated by drawing books,   who might also buy  a book such as:  

"Drawing for Dummies"  or  "Drawing for the Complete Idiot"  or "Drawing for the Complete Klutz",   and so forth. 

     I have much sympathy for  frustrated  students of drawing.  Such wording is used to sell books,  much like the terms,  "complete guide to"  or "ultimate guide".    In every case where such terms are applied by publishers to DRAWING books,  the claims are unjustified.   These are marketing gimmicks, and the buyer should beware such terms as "hooks" to draw  in  the hesitant buyer.  Such is the case here.   

     The scenario reminds me of that Bill Murray movie,  "What About Bob"   where he  becomes fascinated with the idea of taking "BABY  STEPS"  to improve himself.  If only this book was about "BABY STEPS"   I would surely recommend it.  It is just another drawing book, not on a level with the best. 

    Moreover,  if we keep in mind that some "absolute and utter beginners"  are children and adolescents,  the lessons  would not be  a positive inducement for a parent to acquire this book in hopes that the lessons might be simple enough that a child would easily acquire skill.

    There might very well be a market for a "pre-beginner" book, and elsewhere I have recommended an ideal beginner book for children. This is not really that kind of book.   If I had to buy this book without actually thumbing through the pages,  the words "absolute and utter beginner"  would make me so trusting that I would buy it with high hopes. I have bought about several hundred books from Amazon in the past 7 years.  Boy,  would I be angry when the book arrived
