If you are still ignorant enough to believe the Crusades were a manifestation of Christian aggression, then this book might be more up your alley than that of true, dispassionate historians.  

The Crusades were not, by any means, a war of Christian aggression -- quite the contrary, they were carried out as a defensive (not offensive!) measure to combat Islamic aggression (let's not forget that Spain had already been swept over by Islamic aggression by the time of the First Crusade and now the Seljuk Turks were violently spreading and conquering, leading Alexius I, the Byzantine emperor, to ask the Pope in the West for help against this violent wave of Islamic aggression.)  In the past 20 years, serious scholars/historians have come to this conclusion (that the Crusades have been inaccurately labeled as a war of aggression when they were in fact a defensive measure).  And to think that I was taught in school that the aim of the Christians in the Crusades was to convert others and was taught nothing of the Islamic aggression of the time that directly led to (and justified!) the campaigns -- ridiculous!!

Unfortunately, due to a bizarre self-loathing, self-critical streak found only in Western Europe (starting in the Enlightenment) and America -- i.e., the left -- many scholars have consistently villified, and/or apologized for, the Crusades, wrongly sneering that these campaigns were driven by a motive for booty and territory.  Gee, are these historians demanding similar apologies for the violent spread of Islam in medieval Spain??  Back to my point, though: how the typical Crusader's selling off all of his possessions, to trek halfway across the world to a hot dessert region where the chance of surviving is about 2%, can be motivated by greed is beyond me...  

In actuality, the Crusades were motivated simply by a sincere belief in the need to halt Islamic aggression and make the area safe for Christian pilgrims and Christian inhabitants, as well as a belief that sacrificing for the glory of Christianity would earn forgiveness of sins.  Sure, the Crusaders conquered cities and towns -- but isn't that to expected in a military campaign???  Why are the Crusades singled out for achieving what every other successful military campaign achieves?  

The previous view of the Crusaders as bullies who cruelly sought to kill and take over land in some far-off desert region is a joke -- if anyone is to deserve the description of aggression-motivated-by-ambition-for-land-and-riches, it is the Muslims of the time.

I highly recommend Jonathan Riley-Smith's works on the Crusades.  He is the foremost authority on the subject and his work is not biased one way or the other (doesn't villify either side).  Steven Runciman is outdated and incorrect.  If one is interested in the Templars, I recommend Piers Paul Read's excellent, definitive work.  Lastly, stay away from that laughable "Hollywood history" of the Crusades (2005's Kingdom of Heaven) where Christian = wrong. 
