Not recommended.  This allegedly "contrarian" book argues that the hot trends of the last 6 years (outperformance by small and value stocks) will continue for the next 20.  I find any argument for the continuation of well-established trends inherently suspicious, but purchased this anyway to challenge my notion (based on other sources, mostly Morningstar) that large growth is attractively valued right now (even if French & Fama are right about small & value being best in the long run).

I didn't find much to challenge my view.  The author's argument seems to be based entirely on reversion to mean, without any consideration of current valuations (P/E, Price/Book, Price/Sales) of the different market segments.

Two aspects raise the specter of data mining.  First, the reversion analysis is based entirely on 20-year rolling data, but the grounds for picking 20 are thin.  He says it's a typical holding period, but so are 10 and 25; I see no curiosity displayed whether the results would hold if different periods were used.  Second, the stock picking rules laid out in Chapter 8, singled out for praise by another reviewer, give the appearance of having been selected from thousands of possible rules.  I can't tell if these were previously published and have worked since then, but the backtesting is ALWAYS spectacular, and if enough rules were tried then the success of these was just random chance.

The author's portfolio recommendations are all domestic equity, and compared to a strawman historically bad allocation.  Bonds are ultimately dismissed, although the chapter devoted to them contains some good information.  REIT's, international investing, and commodities are skipped over in favor of advice to hire an advisor (which the author happens to be).  The chapter on asset allocation should thus be called "My domestic stock picks," and contains no analysis of the benefits of rebalancing volatile asset classes.  It's almost surely a mistake to own more than ~80% stocks, but you'd never know that from reading this book.  

Another problem is the author's simultaneous praise at pp. 181 and 183-84 for the respective selection criteria of the Vanguard Value and Growth ETF's.  The MSCI indexes (on which these funds are based) are just the flip sides of a coin.  Of the 750 largest U.S. stocks, each index (and fund) contains only and exactly what the other does not.  Thus if one is good, the other is bad.  Ownership in both makes a simple cap-weighted index of the top 750 stocks (similar to  S&P 500 funds, which the author elsewhere condemns).

In fairness, there is some good information on the tech boom and bust, demographics, and 401(k)'s.  My bottom line, though, is that I got more out of both Richard Ferri's book on Asset Allocation, and William Bernstein's Four Pillars of Investing, even though it's out of date.  

One final nit: IBM did not create the first laptop computer, in 1986, as stated on p. 242.  That was Data General, in 1984.

