I bought an earlier edition of his books called "government giveaways" and learned the following the hard way.

Since he published new ones, I kept my mind open to what was new and I found out that I have this book in my local book store. I cracked it open and skimmed it. 

Lesko makes it seem from the advertising that all of these grant and loan programs are for everyone-this isn't the case. When you eliminate 49 other states and every city other city that you don't live in in your state, the book becomes very, very short. There are federal programs that do apply, but there isn't a lot.

Go to your local book store to take a peek at it. You will learn that only a few things will likely apply to what you're interested in, and it isn't likely going to be worth the price of the book.

I would however recommend to Lesko that he gets team of researcher's and writers covering programs in MORE detail for each state. Having a more local edition of his books with all the existing state government and city govenment programs would be much more informative. 
For example since I am interested in business financing, there is something called an SBA 7a loan. It would seem from the book that anyone can get it. But from the book you wouldn't know the following requirements:
1) You must be able to guarantee a portion of the loan yourself, with your real estate or other businesses. If you can't do this you don't qualify.
2) If you are an existing business, Your tax returns for the previous few years must have proof of cashflow. They won't guarantee a loan for business that doesn't show profit. SO DON't CHEAT ON YOUR TAXES!
3) Loan expenditures are only for tangible expenses, you can't pay rent, or people with the loan money.
4) If you are a new business, you must have Significant experience in the industry you plan on doing your business in.

Now why couldn't he just say that in his books!?!? It's because the book is written with a shotgun approach and isn't too detailed.

Good luck and happy free money hunting
