If I could give this review minus 100 stars I would. The authors are not only judgmental, they are hateful, and to top it off the book is full of inaccuracies. For one: Vivien Leigh's eyes were BLUE, not green. If they'd ever watched Gone With the Wind they would know that. True, in the BOOK Scarlett O'Hara's eyes were green, but that doesn't make Ms. Leigh's eyes change colors to suit. There are also numerous grammatical and spelling errors, as well as confusing errors in pronouns.

The authors announce that female actors should get Norplant and males should get vasectomies as soon as they get their Screen Actor Guild cards, as they have no right to have children (they also shouldn't adopt - and they shouldn't have abortions either!). They mention FOUR deaths by overdose or suicides of the children of Hollywood stars/producers, then ask the reader "Do YOU know of any suicides or death by overdoses?" Well, yeah, I do. Hollywood parents don't have a monopoly on bad parenting, as they seem happy to pronounce over and over here. Where have these guys been? 

They claim that stars have C-sections in order to avoid stretch marks. Excuse me, I think a woman's body is about as stretched as it's gonna get at that point. And that Steven Bing did NOT want to have a child with Liz Hurley (why'd he have sex with her then - and not get a vasectomy?) And since Bing knows Bill Clinton, he should call Hurley a slut. Huh? But the authors make sure to mention that Bing "offered" child support to Hurley. They fail to print that Hurley turned it down.

A whole chapter is devoted to how terrible Courtney Love is - I think we get the point. They call her daughter Frances Bean a "heroin baby". Tatum O'Neal's children are referred to as "spawn". Every time Tom Cruise's name is mentioned it has "the heterosexual" in front of it - about forty times. This is not cute or clever, this is childish. There's also something about an aluminum pan scam (the people selling it say it's not aluminum, but it is), and some girl who worked for AOL who communicated by email with not-to-be named stars. The authors make sure we know that they despise Hollywood's Liberal, Democratic politics.

If you have ever read People magazine or watched Entertainment tonight, you know everything in this book already. The rest is nothing but the authors' suppositions put forth as fact, including horrible (unsubstantiated) stories about famous TV & movie stars/producers/directors and you're just supposed to guess at their identities and take this as the gospel truth.
