After hearing and reading a number of astonishing things about this book, I had to give it a read.  What I found was not exactly what I expected.  While some sources have described the Dru character as a "sinister dictator", the truth is not quite so interesting.  The book itself is nowhere near as interesting.

Upon opening the book to the table of contents, one can't help but take notice of the number of chapters in this book.  There are 53 chapters in just 173 pages!  For those of you who don't have a math minor, that's a little over 3 pages per chapter.  And for some reason, many of the chapters are explicit continuations of the chapter before.  What was the point of this?  Why not keep the two chapters a single chapter?  
Needless to say, the writing here is atrocious.  The plot is paper-thin, the characters don't develop one iota, and a romance sub-plot rears its ugly head on the last two pages of the book!  How was this book published?  Why was it put into print?  Therein lies the intrigue.

While it was anonymously written at the time, it is today well-known that the author of this book was Colonel Edward Mandell House (he gives a little hint in the text when two characters meet at Mandell House [yeesh!]), who was the virtual co-president of the United States with Woodrow Wilson.  Wilson admitted time and again that House was his "alter ego", even to the point that House was given accomodations in the White House.  Why is all this important?

Philip Dru leads a revolution against the United States government.  Not a bad thing in and of itself, if the reasons had been more compelling.  What happens in the aftermath, however, brings shudders to students of history.  Philip Dru becomes dictator of the United States, without too much reservation.  He tosses out the national constitution, as well as the state constitutions, and has them rewritten.  He institutes a graduated income tax (which did not exist at that time in the U.S. because it was ruled unconstitutional;  however, with the "ratification" of the 16th amendment just a year or two after the publication of this book, we got one for the first time and have lived under it ever since), forces popular election of senators, nationalizes industry, and reorganizes the entire government at his whim.  And Dru is definitely portrayed as the friendly protagonist.  If the First Lady were to write a book calling for revolution, abolition of the constitution, and a unitary dictator, would we worry?  I sure hope so.  

But more worrisome is the fact that all of these thing eventually did come to pass in this country.  (Sure, the constitution wasn't abolished and rewritten.  However, the New Deal Supremee Court made rulings that effectively gave Congress carte-blanche to pass ANY law it felt like, even those that explicitly violate the constitution [see USA PATRIOT Act]).  Was House prescient?  Did he simply see the tides of popular opinion swarming over the masses?  Or was he simply one of the many manipulating the domestic policy of our republic behind the scenes?

The structure and execution of this book are amateurish at best, more likened to the writing of a 10th grader than any kind of real author.  Perhaps that is the point.  This book was clearly aimed at the unwashed masses.  Every piece of dialog in this book espouses the benefits of socialism and evil of capitalism.  But this effort is so transparent that it leaves us with nothing of any literary merit, and in its place only political ramblings of a clear Fabian socialist.  These ramblings, of course, entail bringing up relevant issues and injustices (female suffrage, corporate exploitation) and packaging them with solutions that involve only the addition and centralization of power in the federal government.  While those who educate themselves will see this work for what it is, the many people who read this book (not today, since people don't read, but back then there were probably more than a few) would end up buying into bad solutions for exaggerated problems.

There is absolutely no reason to buy this book.  The price simply doesn't justify it.  A reader will gain no enjoyment from it.  This book only redeems itself in its historical context:  it was written by a man who pushed Woodrow Wilson to sign the Federal Reserve Act, which destroyed our economy and continues to devalue our money to this day;  to lead us into World War I, despite his campaign promises not to (the Lusitania was carrying English munitions and was a valid military target); and to attempt to sacrifice the sovereignty of our nation to a world governing body in the League of Nations, which our Congress rightly rejected
