About three years ago, I purchased a copy of Richard Giles' masterful work, "Re-Pitching the Tent", quite possibly one of the best works on re-ordering church builidings I have seen in the last decade.  I frequently refer to it in my ministry, and have used that book many times for inspirations and ideas in liturgical quandries.  "Re-Pitching" was dignifed and respectful, and remains a wonderful read.

"Creating Uncommon Worship", however, would have been better suited to the title, "Kicking Out the Tent-Poles", because what was a wonderful beginning has now went sour.

First, let me highlight the strong points.  The photography is wonderful, and will fill the reader with food for thought.  The re-arrangment of the Philadelphia Cathedral depicted in the book is an excellent model for those seeking a return to basilican-style celebrations of the Eucharist.  The fonts were very readable, and the book has a wonderful layout.  Did I mention that the photographs were nice?

Now, for the remainder of my comments.  Rev. Giles' attitide towards those who love older forms of the liturgy is inexcusable.  At one point, Giles blasts away at a church in New England where the pastor celebrated the Eucharist ad orientem (facing 'east').  He makes many comments that suggest blatantly ignoring the rubrics of the liturgy, and even challenges (at points) the authority of the bishop.  Such an attitude on the part of a priest is inexcusable, and publishing it in such a manner as to encourage such behavior in other places is horrifying.

What Giles is commending to modern usage is the abandonment of, in essence, all tradition that he does not see befitting of the 'modern' Church.  

Sadly, in his strive to be relavant, Giles misses out on the entire point of the Liturgy... to teach the truth.  His regular rampages about 'blurring the lines' between cleric and laity seem to indicate a raging anti-clericalisim, which is strange given the fact that he is an ordained priest of the Church of England and is functioning in the United States as the dean of a cathedral.

Please, don't get me wrong, there are plenty of gems in this book for consideration - though most of the theology is, in my opinion, at best contrived - yet generally rubbish.  Giles' main intent in writing this book seems to be his desire to further irritate those who are loyal to their ordination oaths and the rubrics of their liturgies.

In reading the book, I became so disgusted with Giles' attitude that I was tempted to go to the Church and shove the Altar back up against the wall and celebrate with my back to the people.

I sincerely hope that, in any further books, Giles would refrain from such an attitude display.  He has some good food for thought (his section on the Eucharistic Prayer, while still filled with jibes and barbs, is quite insightful), plowing through the weeds and brambles is too much work for me.

"Creating Uncommon Worship" will take up a not-so-honored place on my shelf for the time being, until I finally can justify selling it to someone else
