This book does offer some helpful suggestions, such as establishing a regular eating schedule, keeping track of what you eat and finding alternatives to bingeing.  But I found its explanations unsatisfying on the answers to pertinent questions such as, "What causes bingeing?"  The author talks about factors like gender and social class and the prevalence of dieting, but I was looking for an explanation on the physiological level, which this book does not provide.

Fairburn also dismisses the idea of carbohydrate craving as a "myth," and mentions a colleague's research that proposes fat, not carbohydrate, as the substance that binge eaters actually go for.  Well, if that were true, then why don't binge eaters eat a pound of butter or drink olive oil when they binge?  As a former binge eater, I can tell you that I have never done that.  In fact, I have never binged on anything that was not full of simple carbohydrates such as sugar or white flour.  But I have binged on lots of stuff that had no fat.  I find this author to be too dismissive of a phenomenon that many people have experienced.  It's like going to the doctor and having him or her tell you "it's all in your head."

The author also dismisses the idea that there is such a thing as food addiction by attempting to refute the statements of Overeaters Anonymous.  Now, I have been to OA and, while the group support can be helpful, the overall approach is a failure.  The OA Board itself has held meetings to try to figure out why the 12-step approach doesn't have a greater success rate with binge eaters.  But Fairburn marries the concept of food addiction with OA and, through convoluted and not entirely convincing arguments, throws them both out.  And we've all heard that story of the baby and the bathwater.

Finally, he says repeatedly that food avoidance causes bingeing and therefore no foods should be avoided.  The point is well taken, but, considering how much stuff being sold in the grocery store is only masquerading as food, why in the world would you not avoid "Frankenfoods" that are full of sodium nitrite, artificial flavors and coloring, hydrogenated fats and so on?  There is a difference between avoiding pork skins and avoiding fresh produce.

I just think this book leaves a lot to be desired.  Maybe it will help some anorexics and bulimics, but it was not much help to me as a binge eater.  I would recommend a book that I read just after this one called "The Schwarzbein Principle," by Diana Schwarzbein, M.D., which does give real answers on a physiological level.  It also validates the carb cravings which so many, including myself, have experienced, as well as showing how to defeat them.  Dr. Schwarzbein's approach has worked very well for me, whereas Fairburn's did not.

