This book makes some decent statements. However, Korten goes way overboard on his assault, and in doing so ends up "throwing the baby out with the bath water".

What I wish Korten would write is "WARNING - if we are not careful, corporations and the short term goals that they inspire CAN and WILL ruin not only the planet, but your life and life as we know it". But so will any organization that is left unchecked (think of 1984 and/or Brave New World for excessive examples of both). Korten warns that corporations have the potential to be excessive in their quest for greed, and that is true. However, corporations are made of people, and if people decide to give their lives over to greed, then yes, there will be consequences. Korten never really says this, but it is obvious -- life is more than just work, and it is every person's individual responsibility to think about the values of life beyond just simple greed. This means (I think) sharing a healthy passion for improving your position economically in life, but also balancing it with other equally important needs - love, family, friends, environmental balance, love for your neighbor (regardless of territorial boundaries), etc...

Korten's attack on corporations is excessive and looks at the worst case scenario in every sense, and then finds a way to place the blame on business. He tells you about all the people that he has seen misplaced over the years due to terrible economic corporate greed. However, is it just corporations that are at fault here, or could it also be politicians, local police, warlords, lack of execution, or any other things that could have made a situation bad. Korten decides that it is the fault of corporations and leaves it at that.

Korten also likes to talk about all of the failures of capitalist societies and how evil greed and pro business leaders caused all of this pain. I agree with him that there is no government in the world that is perfect, and the US (the leader of corporate society) has many skeletons in the closet of history, but the US history is also one of constant improvement, relentlessly seeking to improve the balance between companies, individuals, and the different elements that make up all of life. The "Robber Barons" was a chapter of US history that was excessive, but it was also one that was ultimately fixed (or balanced), and after this was done the US not only emerged as one of the strongest economic powers, but also a place that immigrants loaded onto boats by the thousands to come to. And yes, this was a CHOICE that they made - no corporation forced them to come.

Korten (as well as the first review of this book) goes into talking about how even Adam Smith was opposed to large corporations. To quote, (page 81) "Smith... opposed any form of economic concentration on the ground that it distorts the market's natural ability to establish a price that provides a fair return on land, labor, and capital". This is incorrect. What Smith opposed was any economic force that led to COLLUSION or MANIPULATION of the markets away from their free workings. Today free market principles are espoused and they should be. When they are not, and often times they are not, we are dependent on the courts and our elected officials to rectify the problem. Sometimes this works and sometimes it does not, but simply saying that corporations are bad (and Adam Smith says so too) is just wrong. Free market capitalism is a work in progress...

I could go on, but I will give one last example of Korten's excess. On page 76, he talks about the beliefs of free market ideologues. He writes "These beliefs are based on a number of explicit, underlying assumptions... (1) Humans are motivated by self interest, which is expressed primarily through the quest for financial gain. (2) The action that yields the greatest financial return to the individual or firm yields the most benefit to society. (3) Competitive behavior is more rational for the individual that cooperative behavior and ultimately more beneficial for society. (4) Human progress and improvements in well-being are best measured by increases in the aggregate market value of economic input."  OK, fair enough - this seems to be a fair statement in general. However, Kurton then puts his EXPERT OPINION on things to work. He then interprets all of this in the next paragraph when he says "To put it in harsher language, these idealogical doctrines assume that: (1) People are by nature motivated only by greed. (2) The drive to acquire is the highest expression of what it means to be human. (3) The relentless pursuit of greed and acquisition lead to socially optimal outcomes. (4) The interests of human societies are best served by encouraging, honoring, and rewarding the above values." This jump to "harsher langauge" is absurd.

Reading this, I just cannot see how Korten is looking at this with any sort of objective lens. To reinterpret the first set of thoughts into the second is just a ridiculous leap and assumes that all people in large corporations must be Gordon Geckos. This type of comparison is made time and time again in this book and is the reason I don't think his arguments can truly hold much weight other that one off examples of corporate ills.

In the end, Korten does have some points. If you, or society, or the world, cannot understand the difference between economic growth and happiness/quality of life, then we are all in trouble. However, I give the world more credit than that. It is not a perfect world to say the least, but just because there are some problems in certain areas, we should not be totally against that area. While throwing out the bathwater of economic growth and improving qualities of life, let's make sure to hold on to the baby that we are trying to take care of
