In "Epicenter" Joel Rosenberg provides the background information that drives his novels about the Middle East and the end times.  This nonfiction book will grab readers' attention due to its analysis of current events through the lenses of politics and economics.  However, Rosenberg insists that a third lens of biblical prophecy is necessary in order to truly understand what is happening in the Middle East today.  But is Rosenberg's third lens properly focused?  Has he understood Ezekiel's prophecies correctly?

It should first be recognized that Rosenberg's approach to biblical prophecy is nothing new; he follows the general outline of end time events that have been taught for years by dispensational premillennialists.  All the Bible scholars that he relies upon fall within that school of prophetic interpretation.  They include C.I. Scofield, John Walvoord, and Hal Lindsey.  He refers to Tim LaHaye as "arguably the world's preeminent prophecy expert" (p. 288).

During the thirty-seven years since my conversion and the twenty-eight years in which I have pastored an evangelical Christian church, I have studied both the biblical prophecies and the modern-day prophecy teachers.  At the beginning of my Christian life I was convinced that the prophecy teachers had the future figured out, but I have learned over time that they are less than reliable.  For example, Lindsey suggested in "The Late Great Planet Earth" that Christ would return in 1988.  In the first edition of "The Beginning of the End," LaHaye said that World War I was the first sign of the end times, but in the 1991 revision of the book he changed that first sign to the founding of the modern nation of Israel in 1948.  So I approached Rosenberg's book with caution.

"Epicenter" gives the impression that Ezekiel 38 and 39 are easy to understand.  Rosenberg does not mention that evangelical scholars disagree.  Peter Craigie says, "The series of prophecies concerning Gog . . . are among the most difficult parts of the entire book of Ezekiel to interpret."  Even dispensational premillennialists cannot agree on when Ezekiel 38 and 39 are going to be fulfilled.  Will it be before, during, or after the tribulation?  Or will it be after the millennium?  Advocates for each position can be found.

Rosenberg also skips over what Ezekiel 37 meant to Ezekiel's contemporaries.  Since they were living in exile in Babylon when Ezekiel delivered his prophecies, wouldn't they naturally have thought that the divine promise of return to the land referred to them?  But Rosenberg doesn't even mention that possibility.  Instead he takes a hermeneutical leap and immediately applies the prophecy to modern Israel's founding in 1948.

The biggest error comes from Rosenberg's reliance upon a nineteenth century scholar's teaching that in Ezekiel 38:3 "rosh" refers to Russia (pp. 85-86).  Even dispensational premillennialists like Charles Dyer and Ralph Alexander reject that interpretation.  What about "Meshech" and "Tubal"?  In his novels Rosenberg readily identifies them as Moscow and Tobolosk, but in "Epicenter" he briefly mentions that questions have been raised about those identifications.  Scholars today understand those terms to be names of tribes that lived in the area of modern-day Turkey.  Why does Rosenberg prefer outdated scholarship?

It's worth noting how the author deals with the other nations mentioned in Ezekiel 38.  By the amount of emphasis he places on events in Persia (or modern Iran), he implies that it will be the major ally of Russia in its attack on Israel.  But is that suggestion derived from the text itself, or is that an interpretation Rosenberg imposes on the text in light of current events?  Ezekiel himself does not highlight Persia any more than Cush or Put.

Rosenberg points out that Egypt is not mentioned in Ezekiel 38 as an ally of Russia (p. 132).  That, he suggests, is evidence of Ezekiel's remarkable accuracy since Egypt currently has a peace treaty with Israel.  But in 1970 Hal Lindsey identified Egypt as a key member of Russia's ally called "the King of the South" in Daniel 11.  How can two prophecy experts come to such contradictory conclusions?

Paul Boyer observed in his excellent book, "When Time Shall Be No More."  "While the core structure of the premillennial scenario remained remarkably stable for 150 years, new events were continually elevated to the status of `prophetic fulfillments' or `end-time signs' while individuals or events that failed to live up to their expected role were quietly dropped . . . The historian, reading hundreds of prophecy books published over a two-hundred-year period, can readily see this process of inserting current events into an archaic belief system.  The average believer, encountering the genre for the first time, may be stunned by the uncanny contemporaneity of the prophecies."

Timothy Weber likewise writes in "Living in the Shadow of the Second Coming," "In retrospect, premillennialists had shown more enthusiasm than accuracy in their interpretations . . .  Their leaders were confident that biblical prophecy was being fulfilled, but events kept forcing them to reevaluate their interpretations of how it was being fulfilled.  One is struck by how forgiving and forgetful the premillennialist rank and file must have been during this period.  They stuck by their leaders even when they misread the signs of the times.  The leaders themselves seemed little deterred by their mistakes.  Events were changing so quickly that they had little time for apologies."

While "Epicenter" may become a bestseller, I'm afraid that it will eventually prove to be just another prophetic disappointment.
