In Lieu of a Review
What follows is a slightly edited letter sent via e-mail over a year ago to Ben Corbett, author of This is Cuba, an Outlaw Culture Survives. It has not been answered.  

Ben: 
A recent newspaper article about the tattoo business in Cuba mentioned your book, reminding me that I had meant to let you know what I thought of it.
By way of introduction, I met your friend M several months ago. She is a friend of L and our meeting was set up largely because I am a partisan of the Cuban revolution. We had what I thought was a good discussion.
I don't think the Cubans you portrayed are very representative of the country. In your book I met tourist-hustlers, prostitutes, a pensioner or two, and some of the unemployed hanging out in the park. No cane-cutters or factory workers. None of the hundreds of thousands of veterans of military missions to Angola, Ethiopia, or other countries, or of the teachers, health professionals and construction workers that have worked all over the underdeveloped world.
Even when you introduce a member of the Communist Party, she's an art professor who is also a Seventh Day Adventist! And deliberately contravening policy about crowding into the capital, "just to be there."
In your defense of civil liberties in the Cuban "police state," I got the impression you were defending the "pickpockets, purse-snatchers and burglars" that were preying on tourists. Are they some sort of "entrepreneurs" to you?
Your infatuation with "outlaw culture" (obviously influenced by "anti-establishment" sentiments here, but radically out of place in the very different society in Cuba) leads you to glorify some very negative elements. The story of the "extra" bags of rice is indicative:
A warehouse administrator, a truck driver & and an enterprising black-marketeer combine to steal a few bags of rice from a government shipment. And sell their take privately, for a highly inflated price (to cover everyone's cut and a "fair" profit, of course).
You seem to see this as an example of some sort of resourcefulness. What I see are people who have either given up on the revolution (very likely, I will grant you, due to its hardships) or who never were part of it. They are "looking out for No. 1." 
These are the kind of people who formed the social basis for the rise of the Stalinist bureaucracy in the Soviet Union. The first step is securing a privileged position for yourself and a small group of similar types. The need for a police state flows from the defense of those privileges against the rest of the people. There are lots of people like that in Cuba. Thankfully, government leaders and most of the members of the Communist Party fight them as best they can. Kind of a vicious circle, don't you see? Underdevelopment, poverty and scarcity (in large part due to the US embargo) encourage such "underground" forms of economic activity. At the same time, such "siphoning off" of resources multiplies the difficulties in getting needed supplies to the mass of the population. 
The urge, on the part of a minority in a position to aprovechar (to profit or take advantage) grows at the same time as demands mount by the rest of the people to crack down on thievery and privilege. Is there tension at times between "the people" and the Communist Party and the government?
Yes. It grows out of the conflict between the mass and those bureaucrats that seek to form a privileged caste.
There is also tension within the party and the government between revolutionaries and bureaucrats. There is a constant fight going on. Some of the flashpoints have been the Escalante affairs in the `60s, the "rectification campaign" and Ochoa affair in the `80s, and the entire "Special Period" since the disappearance of Soviet aid. I think the revolutionaries should be supported in this fight.
Do you really think that if the handful of Cubans you seem to think are so repressed were allowed to run home-restaurants and mango-juice businesses unimpeded, life would improve for the vast majority? I think it would lead to the institutionalization of privilege based on wealth. From there you go to Stalinist-style repression to defend said privilege or to a restoration of capitalism (which would mean a return to neocolonial status, as there is no Cuban capitalist class with the wherewithal to hold off penetration by US capital).
The majority of Cuban workers and farmers rightly see no prospects for themselves in either alternative. It's not repression by the government that keeps people away from the so-called dissidents and hustlers, it's the realization of the horrors they would be subject to if the revolution were overthrown. 
Ben, I doubt that you think US society is the highpoint of human civilization. I am sure that you object to the commercial venality, inequality, violence and dog-eat-dog character of our existence here. Your book, however, seems to idealize those Cubans most disposed towards the economic system that gives rise to those problems. Class biases shine through your writing. By that I mean you come across (I believe that any book, no matter its subject, is really about its author) as a late 20th-century white middle-class American.
A particularly glaring example: Your jinotero (hustler) buddy, Juan, is busted for the last time and given the choice of jail or job training (what a police state!). So now he's an apprentice brick mason. "Deep down he doesn't like it. He's an intelligent businessman, not a slave laborer."
I'm not sure if that's his thought or yours, possibly a shared view. But, do you know how insulting that is to the vast majority of the people, not just of Cuba, but of the US and the rest of the world?
"Businessmen" have no more native intelligence than any wageworkers, farmers or landless laborers. "Being your own boss" is a petit bourgeois fantasy, born of desires to ape the lifestyle of "one's betters." Accidents of birth, access to capital, and, yes a little luck have a lot more to do with "entrepreneurial success," than "intelligence" and "hard work." In the US, I doubt if you view grasping, cheating "cockroach capitalists" as leading the charge for significant social change. Their noses are too firmly pressed to the asses of the wealthiest "intelligent businessmen" to see where they or society are going.
What makes you think their Cuban imitators are any better? I don't think Cuba's interference with the capitalist law of value is repression. It's a pre-condition for turning society away from selfishness and (unfair) competition, toward human solidarity and cooperation.
You seem a little weak on Marxist theory: "...communism is...based on the principle that `each person receives equally according to his need.' The principles of Socialism say that `each person receives according to his labors.' The current Cuban reality and the super-human standards of Communist dogma, however, are rarely in harmony."
The actual quote from Marx, "...from each according to his ability, to each according to his need," expresses relations within a communist system. Communism, though, is based on advanced technology and material abundance: "...slavery cannot be abolished without the steam-engine and the mule jenny, serfdom cannot be abolished without improved agriculture, and...in general, people cannot be liberated as long as they are unable to obtain food and drink, housing and clothing in adequate quality and quantity."
Socialism is transitional to communism. Short of full material abundance, what is received must be limited, "to each according to his labor." It's supposed to be temporary. Trouble is, the anti-capitalist revolutions we know have taken place in underdeveloped and/or war-shattered countries. 
Combining that with fierce capitalist resistance, the "development of productive forces" that Marx called the "absolutely necessary practical premise" of communism has yet to be established. And he pointed out the danger that "without it privation, want is merely made general again, and all the filthy business would necessarily be restored." (the Marx quotes are from The German Ideology and Critique of the Gotha Program). The difference between the Cuban revolution and all the others we saw in the 20th century is that it has a leadership that resists the "filthy business." The heroes of "This is Cuba" are part of the problem, not part of the solution.
I found it galling that you let the United States completely off the hook for any problems existent in Cuba. No discussion of 60 years of neocolonialism, the theft of resources and wealth, or the repressive regimes sponsored to oversee all that. No discussion of Giron, the October Crisis, The Torrecelli and Helms-Burton Acts, or the Cuban Adjustment Act. In your view, the embargo is a political hobbyhorse of Fidel's. 
Your idealization of "the global market economy," of "a full dollar economy" as solutions betrays a middle class bias toward the accumulation of wealth by a few as the answer to social problems. Look at what's going on in Latin America: Argentina, Bolivia, Venezuela, Nicaragua, Mexico. Would you claim that the mass of people of those countries is better off after a decade or more of "globalization" and "neo-liberal capitalism?" Cubans are better off now than in 1991 and '92. While they were forced to legalize the dollar, entice foreign investors, and open wide to tourism, with the inequalities and problems attendant to all that, their government did not sell off any national industries. Hospitals and neighborhood clinics did not close. Free education continued. Daycare centers and libraries stayed open. While there may not be a lot more than beans and rice, the malnutrition endemic throughout Latin America is absent from Cuba.
If Fidel is a "dictator," he shows an inordinate fondness for the social well being of his country, a rather uncommon trait among caudillos (Latin American Spanish for political boss). 
Actually, I thought your treatment of Fidel and your speculations about Cuba after his death the weakest parts of your book: a melange of bourgeois journalism, State Department estimates, leaked "intelligence reports," Miami Mafia gossip, and wishful thinking of Havana's chattering class. 
Remember, in Miami back in '91 and '92, they were practically dancing in the streets, predicting the fall of the "puppet" due to the collapse of the Soviet Union. If the "opposition" was ever going to advance beyond the circles of hangers-on of the US Interests Section and economic privateers, that was the time to do it.
Nothing happened.
I have no "inside dope" on what plans or preparations, outside of the provisions of the Cuban constitution, exist for the inevitable transition, but I am sanguine, as are I believe most Cubans, that there won't be any big problems. Time, as always, will tell.
Anyway, thank you for an interesting and challenging book, tommyboy544@yahoo.com
 
