If you are reading this review...that is how most reviews start out. But this is a book worht the used or new price. The only thing I warn is that you should be advised...wait...I mean warned that it is geared towards someone who knows jaanese intermediately. 

As a beginner to japanese and teaching myself at home in my spare time...I enjoyed it. It will not be that useful to me now sitting in a rural town where there has not been a japanese person evere. but I am digressing. It is good to read through and gives you some knowledge that if you do not use now, you can in the future.

You might ask "so waht?". Well you are rght. This book really is a side track for those who learn languages. It is not osmehting that will teach you much, but it gives you something to waste time on. it's funny and just like the usa. It might work. The cheesy lines in here. Depends on if the guy or girl likes you or not. 

The other reviewers who said it worked on their "japanese wife". Are really just trying to sell you their used book. If you think this book is going to get you a japanese mate...I'm sorry to say you are wasting your time. but if you feel like you have the extra few bucks to burn. It could be an interesting way to spend some time.

If you know japanese and want to make some osrt of a phrase expansion mentally. This could be a total waste of time, because in english I have never said any of the things in this book and can't see why anyone would in japanes. It is just too structured and fake.

It is one of those "help you get a japanese mate" books. And it comes out of the early 90s late 80s . A time when people would fall for such dating books. 

I actually grew up with ERika geers the author of this book. It is her sense of humor,a nd do not take it seriously. If you are in a good financial position this book can give you some laughs. If you are on a tight budget or younger than 30 don't waste your money...unless you want to.

hey, it's up to you.

Good Luck with your language studies. 

Enjoy
