This book started out very promising as most other reviewers have rightly said. But somewhere along the way Lisa Kleypas must have lost her muse. There was no substancial plot mechanisms that kept you interested, and though well crafted-despite the hero's lapse in character after he revealed his true age--I didn't walk away from the novel feeling particularly fond of either Jack or Amanda. That doesn't mean I didn't like them ... I did, but there was just that little something missing, that little spark that would make you fall in love with them. 

I think what annoyed me the most about the book was not even so much its lack of good plotting or the characters, but the premise on which the book was built. This book was set in 1836, yet it felt surprisingly contemporary, like the characters were actually from today's era only we were told that it's 1836. I found myself raising my eyebrows about a lot things.

1.The love scene where Jack suggested they act out some of the activities in the madam's book. I'm no historical expert, but I've done my share of research from 19th century to as far back as 14th century England, and I find it hard to believe that sex books which included oral activities were so widely accepted and sold to the masses. 

2.I found it difficult to believe that Amanda, as a spinster, would be living by herself, unchaperoned, not even in the country, but in the city! Even though it may not sound all that long ago, let's remember that this was a time in which women were threated like total nitwits with no capabilities of their own, and a so-called well-bred young lady did not go off living by herself in a notorious city such as London. While this sort of activity is quite the norm for us today, this was practically unheard of even up until the early 20th century, let alone 1836. Even though she had servants, it would have been more believable and accurate to the times had she lived with a relative, even if that relative usually left her up to her own devices and allowed her to be as independent and ambitious as she wanted. But living independently, as a modern woman would, alone in a big, cosmopolitian city when the backbone of 19th century society was a woman's enemy ... it just wasn't believeable. 

3.To make matters worst this thing about Jack being younger also had me shaking my head even more in disgust. Don't get me wrong, it's not the fact that he was younger that bothered me (my husband is 3 years my junior). What bothered me is that it was so obvious that Kleypas was trying to convince her readers that these people lived and believed in the same values as we do today. And probably a lot of them did, but I am fairly sure that society was not yet wont to such practices. The older woman/younger man thing is so 'in' right now, isn't it? I suppose in some way we all look for ideas, historical and otherwise, to validate and merit the behaviours, actions and practices of our times. But I'm just sick of it. This wave in our society today is not about love, it's about proving silly points that in many ways--in my opinion--disgraces a woman rather than honours her. But, I'm not about to get political. I guess what I'm basically trying to say is that if people are going to write historical novels write historical novels. I srongly believe that if one is imaginative enough, one can come up with a vast amount of original plotlines that are appropriate to the period without having to restore to poor adaptions of current cliched popular culture. If I should begin to list the names of authors who have accomplished this, the names would have been numerous and the irony of it all is that, Lisa Kleypas would have been at the top of the list.  

4.And finally, what put me off perhaps the most were the loves scenes, and this might shock and enrage the feminists amoung us, but still ... All the love scenes were all about Jack pleasuring Amanda. That's all good and well, I'm not going to deny the poor woman her well-deserved pleasure, but what about Jack? This is suppose to be a romance between two people who love each other, yet I felt that Jack's sole purpose in the book was to be Amanda's pleasure horse rather than an equal partner. There was no romance, just a lot of sex with the undertones of a woman rebelling against the confines of convention. There's nothing wrong with that, but this is suppose to be about the romance. Lisa Kleypas's books are books that celebrate women and the liberation of women, that's one of the reasons why I read her books, but while all of us may like to read about a woman being thoroughly pleasured, I personally like when that pleasuring is reciporated between the hero and the heroine, and I don't think I'm alone on this matter. It is never a good thing when any one thing is overdone. For me the heart of the romance between two people comes alive when both parties are desperately in love with each other and are equally invested and committed. They are made to give and take equally of each other. Okay, I may be an idealist, but this is afterall fiction ... where matters of the heart are concerned, things can be stretched a little. I didn't feel anything in this book, no heartfelt romance, not even real passion ... just a lot of raw lust and sex, no real making of love. That's always a disappointment when there's a lack of romance in a romance novel. 

This has gotten overly long, but I guess what I did like about this book was Amanda's pragmatism. I won't say I understood the circumstances that led up to her brief encounter with Hartley, but I did relate to her fears and it was a sensible and necessary plot mechanism ... the only one actually. Overall, the only reason why I kept reading this book was because I said to myself that I was reading a Lisa Kleypas novel and things will certainly get better in the next chapter. Needless to say, it didn't. A lot of stuff just went downhill after Chapter 3 and by the time I finally reached the end of the book, I was quite relieved. 

If I were you, I'd take the advice of the many reviewers of this book and not start with Suddenly You if it will be your first Lisa Kleypass novel. For more seasoned fans, get this one at the library or at best a used bookstore, but don't waste your money on a brand new copy. It's not terribly, terribly bad but you'll feel cheated if at the end of the day you're 7/16 dollars poorer and sorely disappointed in this book.
