Rashid Khalidi's book is supposed to be about the attempts of Arabs to achieve independence.  However, I think the story is actually about the struggle of some Arabs to deny independence and human rights to nearby Jews, a minority that some people felt the Arabs had a Right and Duty to oppress.

The 1939 White Paper was one of the most evil acts of the twentieth century, given that it condemned hundreds of thousands or more Jews and others to death at the hands of the Axis powers, in violation of British promises to the League of Nations.  But the author merely appears to praise it.  Nor does he seem to realize that the White Paper was responsible for the creation of the state of Israel (albeit an Israel vastly weakened by the loss of millions of European Jews in World War Two).

We've seen a continuing Arab-Israeli conflict, and Khalidi incorrectly blames it on the Jews.

The author's discussion of Deir Yassin is a good example of the problems we can see in this book.  Khalidi starts by saying that not 250 to 300 people died there but around 100.  That's true.  He does not mention the fact that a few of these deaths were of Jewish combatants in the battle, but he does say that of the 100 deaths, 75 were "children, women, and the elderly."  That may or may not be an exaggeration on Khalidi's part, of course.

But then we're treated to this:

"Some of the survivors were paraded through Jerusalem before being taken back to the village and shot."

What?

That's blood libel.

Yes, it is like casually stating that the Jews kill little Christian kids so that they can use the blood of these kids to make cookies (or that the Jews poison the wells).  Even before one investigates such charges in detail, one should realize that they are virtually certain to be false.  And, in fact, when numerous claims of the cookie blood libel were investigated in detail (even by rather hostile investigators), none were ever confirmed.   

Let's get Khalidi's claim straight.  Is he trying to tell us that almost all of those who died in the battle for Deir Yassin were Arab women, children and elderly, with most of the Arab fighters being captured and disarmed, only to be paraded in broad daylight through Jerusalem before being taken back to Deir Yassin to be murdered in cold blood?  Or is he trying to imply that a goodly number of those children, women, and elderly were the ones who were paraded around and then murdered?  Either way, it looks like a very dubious claim.  If such a thing had actually happened, we'd see plenty of serious discussion regarding it in the literature, including comments from Jews who tried to boast about it or deny it or explain it or rationalize it.  And I don't see anything of the sort.

But my point is not merely that Khalidi has told or repeated a few very unflattering and misleading untruths about the Jews here.  It is that this book is unscholarly and cheap propaganda.

An actual scholar would not make such a remark as casually as Khalidi did.  Such a person would be aware that outrageous and astonishing claims require enormous evidence.  A scholar would also be wary of implying that such behavior by Jews could be thought of as typical (or at least unsurprising).  

In fact, even the actual Arab deaths in the battle for Deir Yassin drew a huge negative response from a big majority of Levantine Jews.  That response clearly shows that the majority of the Jews considered even these Arab deaths in battle in very negative manner (as well as highly unusual), but Khalidi does not say this.

In addition, if an actual scholar truly believed that such cold-blooded murders had actually occurred after the battle, after the victims had been disarmed and paraded through Jerusalem, that scholar would not have implied that this is common, generally accepted knowledge.  Instead, a scholar would explain that a huge number of people did not believe it, both due to the lack of motivation for such a crime and due to the lack of evidence for it having happened.  And then, that scholar would have given the evidence for it being true anyway.  Khalidi certainly does nothing of the sort.  And that clearly shows that we're not dealing with a scholarly work here, but with rather worthless and counterproductive propaganda.

I think there is a need for truth and scholarship in this field.  I do not recommend this book.
