To start off with, I want to say that I really loved Ilium, and had very high hopes for Olympos. But I was ultimately dissapointed. There are a number of flaws I found in the book, most of which I'll mention here.

Like another reviewer, I was hoping the focus of Olympos would be the war between the united Greeks and Trojans against the gods. To avoid spoilers I won't say much other than there is very little time given to this conflict, which I found very dissapointing.

As many other reviewers have mentioned, the book seems to build for a long time, to what the reader hopes will be some sort of epic intense conclusion, but ultimately there is barely a climax at all. Also, not all mysteries set up by the book are explained (though overall a great deal will become more clear, there are a number of unexplained bits that annoy me). Along with unexplained mysteries, there are a few points in which the motivations of characters do not make much sense.

Also, one specific conflict we are essentially promised at the end of Ilium, and is foreshadowed a number of times in Olympos, never actually occurs. The reader is supposed to accept that this sort of showdown will probably happen at some point after the events of the book. 

Olympos also lacks the intensity and action of Ilium. I remember reading the last 300 pages of Ilium in one sitting because  I was so enthralled. Olympos never reaches this level. In fact, by the end I was already dissapointed enough that I practically had to force myself to finish it.

One final thing that bothered me were a number of anti-Islam and homophobic bits that really add nothing to the story. They were essentially purposeless, yet they were there. At one point near the end homosexuality is described as if it was just some psychological disease existing only in the 21st century. This passage comes from nowhere, and like I said, serves no purpose. 

While I still think Ilium was an amazing book, this sequal did not come close to meeting its promise
