.....tries to explain hyper dimensions. 
Like other disappointed reviwers, I should have paid heed to the negative reviews. I first saw the book on 'Charlie Rose', the subject sounded intriguing and that tipped the balance in the book's favor. I often try to keep abreast of scientific breakthroughs and regularly read popular science books. 
When reading books, I value good skill in literary writing. Randall sorely lacks the panache to keep a reader glued to the book. Her literary style is dry and uninspired. The prose is awkwardly punctuated with lame attempts at humor.The humor feels more cursory and forced than natural and effortless. And I absolutely agree with some of the other reviwers about the vignettes, they are embarrasingly hackneyed. The pedestrian, pop culture imagery that the vignettes project clashes with the transcendental nature of the subject at hand.
Like many others, I was seduced by the exotic nature of hyper dimensions. I still am. But as a theoretical physicist of such repute, one would expect Randall to be perceptive enough to know her limitations as a literary author. Explaining hyper dimensions must be a daunting task for anyone, more so when explaining it to the layman.Randall's mundane analogies when explaining dimensions and branes coupled with her lack of prosaic skills do not help matters. I personally think, no corporeal analogy can fittingly conceptualize an extra dimension. Hyper dimensions are by nature beyond human perception. Hyper dimensions were not a direct product of empirical thought process, but a consequence of mathematical equations. I am not even sure if theoretical physicsts can really visualize or perceive hyper dimensions without a mathematical crutch.

What Randall's purpose is in writing this book is not clear. She dedicates multiple pages in the book to people who helped her write this book, people she calls her friends, people who helped her edit the book and proof read it. If these people are her truly her friends, they should have stopped her from putting such an ill-conceived book out in the market.
The 2 stars that I give this book are for effort. Randall did spend time and effort in putting this book together, as amtuerish as it is.
There are many other books that tackle the same subect with aplomb. One important thing I learned from this experience, do not trust talk show hosts' literary recommendations!!
