The topic of suburban Christianity is one that deserves attention and thought. And I do agree with the premise of the book--that Christians must not give up on the suburbs. But although this book was well researched, it lacked a fundamental passion to really inspire and encourage the love of God in suburbia. Perhaps that was not the intent, but that is the book we really need to find!

What you are left with is some dry sociological information, mild commentary and a few tentative suggestions like "walk more" or "practice hospitality" or "simplify your life" or "remember how the other half lives" that any non-Christian book about the topic might suggest. I can and do get that type of social commentary from David Brooks. And generally he is more humorous about it too. 

God can radically change suburbia through each of us. If we don't believe this, what are we discussing anyway? I believe what is going to get suburban Christians to make eye contact with people and invest in them is a love of God and God's love for people. If we don't care about our neighborhood barista then all the short-term weekend trips to urban missions are more about us than about the people we are suppose to be helping. If we are simplifying our lives to consume less (and save money) but not giving over and above our tithe to charity--again the benefit goes all to us. Ditto for our taking more walks if we don't end up actually talking to anyone new while walking! It's not all about you (or me) the suburban Christian. 

To be fair I would probably be less critical of this book if the blurb from whoever Lauren Winner is didn't claim it would be "Provocative...even prophetic." That is what it is precisely NOT. Not provocative enough and not prophetic enough. Bill Hybels' new book "A Walk Across the Room," which talks about making personal connections, is a better guide book for bringing Jesus into your suburb. And as for passion, you can't beat Brennan Manning's "Ruthless Trust" or almost any other book he has written. If you care about this topic, suggest you read Manning to get the passion, pray hard, then do what Hybels says
