Some of the articles are well argued, insightful, historically grounded, and modest in their assertions, but those are the exceptions rather than the rule.

The main problem I have with this book is that it offers no caveats about the ACTUAL complexity of American society. Many of the essays are personal stories and although true they are only a handful of stories among many. Students who have lived a privileged, sheltered life usually don't have the personal experience to know that life at the bottom may not always be as it is described in the book.

One example that comes to life is the story of a gay man's experiences of homophobia in Catholic schools. I was in a very similar situation when I went to Catholic schools so I was interested to see what his experience was. It turns out he had it quite a bit harsher than I ever did. I thought it might just be that my classmates were nicer people or something naive and implausible like that. Then I checked the publishing date. The essay was published in 1985 and this guy was looking back at his life. My estimate is that he went to high school in the sixties. When it comes to sexual orientation a lot has changed in since then but you would never know that from reading this book. No mention is ever made of the historical context behind any of the essays. A significant portion of the essays on sexual orientation and specifically homophobia were written YEARS ago, before gays started to become more open and accepted in the mid to late nineties. Anybody reading this book without a critical eye can be easily misled. 

Most of the problem with this book though is with what I don't know. I don't know the political background of most of the writers. I don't know how rigorous their method was. I don't know if their representation of poverty in America accurately represents lived reality. It would be too easy slip in some very misleading stuff and have most people not notice it. After all, what do a bunch of upper-middle class mostly white students know about welfare? The book becomes particularly suspicious when every thing in it fits nicely into a narrow lowest common denominator left-wing view of the world.

Should I believe much of anything out of this book? I don't know but I honestly doubt it
