The Moviegoer is a book about a 30 year, disaffected businessman.  He's successful and liked, from a rich New Orleans family, but bored with life. He doesn't know what he wants, and doesn't know what to do about it.

This description, however, sounds like Binx Bolling, the main character, is actually doing something to figure out what's wrong.  Unfortunately, the book just follows him around through his life over the course of a week and describes his boredom and dissatisfaction with the things around him.  While interesting from a theoretical, philosophical, existential point of view, it makes for boring reading.

In addition, the book, released in 1960 feels badly dated, about a time and place that no longer exists, so while I have experienced my own bouts of existential angst, Binx's problems are not mine and the book is not written in a way to help sympathize with his plight. This is in stark contrast to Kafka, for example, whose stories of frustration and nothingness from 19th century Prague can bring me to tears.  

While the novel is set in New Orleans, there is little description to make the unique setting visible other than the names of a few streets.
Similarly, Binx remains a faceless everyman, and the women he dates so interchangeable that Binx himself can barely keep them distinct.

The title, too, is misleading.  "The Moviegoer" made me expect a story about a person who lived his life through characters in the movies.  While Binx does attend movies regularly and describes people in terms of long forgotten actors, I have to assume the title refers to Binx's problem of watching life around him without participating the same way as we watch a movie.  

Like the existential play "Waiting for Godot" this story is mostly about the lack of a story, and though things happen, there is little sense of suspense or caring to carry the narrative forward. 

If you're looking for an existential novel, I'd strongly recommend Kafka's The Castle or The Trial instead.  And if you're looking for an enjoyable novel that truly distills the distinctiveness of New Orleans with a truly memorable set of characters, A Confederacy of Dunces (John Kennedy Toole) (which Walker Percy was instrumental in having published after the suicide of the author) is among the best novels of our times.  But The Moviegoer is a hard slog for little payoff.

