

Beware!  If you read this book, know that it misrepresents the Minoans terribly.  

Let's begin with the cover.  The vast majority of humans depicted in Minoan art are women.  Furthermore, for every man shown in a (possible) leadership position, there are thirty Minoan women shown in such positions.  Most scholars concede that the political leader of the Minoans could very well have been a woman.  So what does Castleden plaster on the front of his book?  Not only a man, but the only male figure that's ever been suggested as a remotely  possible leader. If this isn't blatant dishonesty of the worst kind, I don't know what is.  

And who is Castleden, anyway?  I've looked high and low, and can't find credentials for him.  There are none listed in (or on) his book.  He isn't an archaeologist.  He doesn't seem to be a scientist or academic. He doesn't seem to have any training in anything.  Did he even graduate from high school?  If so, no one's saying.

As the Library Journal reviewer above points out, Castleden spends quite a bit of time blasting "traditional" theories about the Minoans.  In his mind, almost every "traditional" theory is a "wrong" theory.  But as the the LJ reviewer also notes, Castleden offers little or no evidence to support his "new and improved" theories.  

Take for example the Anemospilia data.  Not every archaeologist agrees that "human sacrifice" happened at this Minoan site.  Yet Castleden assures us that he KNOWS it did, and, furthermore, that this translates into the Minoans generally practicing human sacrifice (!)  He knows they did, by golly!  He, the "expert" with the mystery credentials, tells us point blank that "the archaeological evidence is not susceptible of any other interpretation" (p. 171, 1994 edn).  Excuse me, Mr. C., but have you read the imminent archaeologist Nanno Marinatos?!?  No?  I thought not.  Marinatos gives that "other interpretation" you so haughtily assure us does not exist.   

And then there's war.  The traditional view is that the Minoans maintained peace for 1000 years unbroken.  So of course Mr. C. knows this has to be wrong.  Again Mr. C. refrains from mentioning that not all experts (of which he is not one) agree with him here.  He passes the Minoans off as confirmed warriors (in certain time periods at least), and himself as one with the credentials to know.  

I wholeheartedly agree with the Library Journal reviewer: "Castleden frequently proposes scenarios drawn more from psychosocial inference than evidence, yielding arguments less compelling than the originals. A nation of addicts could scarcely have had the energy to execute drug-induced creativity, much less to develop the commercial empire that was ancient Crete under the Minoans...."  

Lastly, nothing in this book is referenced -- the first mark of an insecure amateur.    We are forced to rely on Castleden's honesty and integrity about almost every thing he says.  And we've already seen that his honesty is questionable. 


