Your book is very biased. It only applies to those mothers and pregnant mothers all of whom have never experienced Infant or Pregnancy loss. Ask any mother who has experienced Infant or Pregnancy Loss and they will tell you that their first concern is just that they will bring this baby home alive. As a mother who already had two "normal" pregnancies and delievered 2 healthy babies, when I lost my third son at 20 weeks and 5 days due to SPROM (spontaneous premature rupture of membranes), I joined an exclusive club with a membership that I didn't ask for or want. I joined the community of Infant and Pregnancy Loss. I like so many others joined the club of parents who have experienced the loss of a child. I was shocked that I was also forced to grieve in silence and find underground communities where I could get support. It sickens me that in the year 2005 it is more acceptable and understood for people to grieve for someone they never even met...Elvis, Princess Di, JFK Jr., but that I am told to move on and get over the loss of my child. There is something really wrong with that. Yes, there have been great strides to bring awareness to Pregnancy and Infanct loss, we have October 15 and we have our online communities and support groups, but what we want most is for others to acknoweledge our losses. I have spoken to 100's of women that have experienced a first, second, or third semester loss and they will all tell you the same thing... that they just want to bring a baby home ALIVE. I had two "normal" pregnancies that gave me my two beautiful boys prior to experiencing my loss of my third son. My boys were 5 and 10 at the time and they to were forced to realize that not all babies come home. When they hear of another family member getting pregnant they ask will this baby come home or will this baby go to heaven? When I sit in my OB's office after my loss, I listen to the petty concerns of pregnant women that have not experienced a loss. They complain about their backs, having to get up to use the bathroom all night, that their husband doesn't have the nursery done, what sex the baby will be, when their baby shower is, etc. I just want to scream that NOT ALL BABIES COME HOME, however, I have to understand that they haven't lost what I lost and what so many other women have lost. I lost more than my son when he was born. I lost the ability to take things in life for granted. I too was once like those women in my OB's office. I had 2 healthy and normal pregnancies before my loss and until I experienced Pregnancy Loss first hand I too didn't know that it does and still happens in the year 2005. When I first lost my son, I needed support more than anything and at times even after almost 2 years after my loss I still do. It hurts even more that finding the support was so difficult. There are no cards at Hallmark for our kind of loss. You can buy a card for someone who lost a dog, but try to find a card for someone who has lost a baby! There are hundreds of moms that will panic and will continue to worry until they get to bring a baby home alive, not if they should pump gas or use a cell phone while pregnant. Why not write an book about that! There is no such thing as a "Fearless Pregnancy" to a mom or dad that has experienced Pregnancy and Infant Loss. Your ignorance is dangerous to women that might or even will experience a complicaion or a pregnancy loss. I never thought I would having had 2 "normal" births before. I assumed that I would get to bring another baby home. I am sick to my stomach that you are doing such a disservice to women everywhere and that you are making money from it. I also supposed that had your pregnancy not gone so well that you might have written a different kind of book. Maybe you should check out a pregnancy and infant loss community and read the stories of our losses and then maybe you can understand the Fear of pregnancy.
