I'm currently only up to page 175, and for the first time in recent memory, I'm giving up on a book. I've wasted way too much time on this piece of utter garbage. I have to thank the other knowledgeable and discerning reviewers here on Amazon for making me realize that there's just no point in continuing with this thing.

From what I've actually managed to get through, it's clear that Yudkoff is many things, but, first and foremost, he's a bad writer. No, strike that: He's a horrible writer. One thing I've always felt is important with biographies is accuracy. Not Yudkoff. He seems to value contradictions and poor research. How poor? I just read the section about HUAC, and he expressed great disdain for director Leo McCarey. He had several paragraphs about him, and mentioned his name numerous times. Now, if you're going to mention someone over and over in your book, one would think that you would at least research him enough to get his name right. Yudkoff calls him Leo McCrary.

The inaccuracies aren't the worst part of the book, by far. Yudkoff seems to be a Communist sympathizer, and that viewpoint is one of the main thrusts of his book. A couple years ago, I read Myrna Loy's autobiography. She was one of those who let her politics run her life, instead of the other way around, and every opinion, encounter and experience was tinged/tainted by her political view. She seemed to have a desire to bed every man in Hollywood, but only if they were a "good Democrat." As awash with politics as her book was, though, it pales in comparison to the hammer and sickle-waving contempt for all things right of Lennin found here. Combined with the glaring inaccuracies (not to mention the outright libel in some passages--Yudkoff takes courage from Cary Grant being in the grave to state his rumored homosexuality as fact), it's impossible to take this book seriously, and nearly impossible to take it at all.

One thing that's essential when reading a biography is trust: you have to be able to trust the author and his account of the person's life, otherwise it's a wasted effort. Very little of what Yudkoff writes--outside of direct quotes (and even those are suspect based on his glaringly poor fact-checking)--can be accepted as fact. This book was clearly written with an agenda, but unfortunately, that agenda doesn't seem to include an accurate retelling of Kelly's life. Avoid this like the bird flu
