Paul Johnson's History of the Jews seems to start well: to a layman, at least, there is a sense of balance - but then it is hard to take the uprising against Zedekiah personally, and while of course it could, under duress, be made to read as a trope for various political tendencies, the author wisely shows little interest in giving the incident a partisan colour. Modern history, however, gets a far different treatment. 

The Ashkenazim were often characterized by anti-Semites as "cunning"; recent scholarship shows that, in fact, the isolation and other unusual conditions to which they were subject over generations inclined them not only towards certain diseases (almost 60% of Ashkenazi suffer from genetically-linked alleles) but also towards higher intelligence than other European males: almost 15 IQ points above the average verbal and mathematical scores, although they tend to have visuospacial scores slightly below the average (see "Natural History of Ashkenazi Intelligence", Journal of Biosocial Science, June 2005). Little wonder, then, that Jews were enthusiastic participants in the explosion of new ideas that followed the Enlightenment. 

These Jews, from Spinoza on, are given increasingly heavy-handed treatment. While it is normal for an author to have his personal preference - in Johnson's case, for the religious over the secular, the moderate over the radical, and the conservative over the progressive - Johnson's Jew is the product of a dangerously nostalgic mis-remembering. Can it be anything other than deeply and insultingly patronizing for a Gentile author to engage, albeit from some supposedly philo-Semitic motive, in the taxonomy of Jews into self-hating and non-? It is a meaningless exercise at best; would anyone ever think to call Luther a self-hating Catholic? Or Galileo? 

At worst, it belies the very philo-Semitism it supposedly characterizes. Why is Rosa Luxembourg a self-hating Jew? Because her politics don't match Johnson's own? Or, more disturbingly, because she doesn't match his image of the meek and dutiful Jew, happily occupied with his scrolls and his flat bread? This stereotypical Jew is sometimes known, in my (admittedly assimilated) circles, as the Williamsburg Jew because, although people imagine they will find him in Brooklyn, in fact he is unlikely to exist outside the implications of the Virginia tourist attraction of the same name. 

Luxembourg's statement, on which Johnson hangs the self-hating epithet, that she is only as concerned about the troubles of Jews as she is about the troubles of all oppressed peoples, is obviously Communist in its inspiration - and therefore anathema to the author - but it is nonetheless completely rational and, it should be pointed out, not incompatible with the Jewish mission to serve as an example. Why is a rational Jew self-hating - because he might make trouble for the Goyim? There is something of the minstrel show about Johnson's model of the modern Jew, something that undermines irretrievably the book as a whole
