This book is based off of a complete misconception of the truth, it has no founding nor fact in our Fathers word and just goes to show how far people using their own imagination can go.

If you like fiction read this book. But remember its just that fiction.

If you would like truth, read and understand our Fathers word. 

To get you on your way. Take any King James version of the Bible and read Mark 13. You will see the two tribulations that Christ defines there. Notice verse 14 defines the fake Christ and verse 24 defines the return of the true Christ. Also note how Christ defines the deception of the fake Christ in verse 19.

Also read 2Thessalonians chapter 2 verses 2-4 , you will see Satan must be worshipped as if he were Christ, right there in Our Fathers temple, before the True Christ returns.

Read revelation chapter 12 verses 7-9, you will see Satan is kicked out of heaven to Earth where he will war with the saints. Note he was kick out with his angles, he's not going to let some man be part of his show. No united nations chief will play the role of the fake christ...thats just complete stupidity.

Read Daniel chapter 7, Revelation chapter 7, Revelation chapter 13, and Revelation 17, You will find the truth in these verses about Satans beast (one world) system that he will use to deceive 99.8% of mankind with. 
Heck ... Revelation 12:3 tells you he did it to us before. Further Revelation 13:11 tells us he will look just like Christ (the lamb of God) but he speaks like satan (the dragon). 

Revelation 13:13-14 tells us he does great miracles and can make fire come down from heaven in the sight of men, and he uses this power to deceive most of the people...Now I don't know about you but I have never seen anyone leading the united nations that has this type of supernatural power...Have you?  

Don't be deceived its Christs #1 warning in Mark 13. The very first warning he gives "Take heed lest any MAN deceive you"  So don't be deceived by this book...its not the word of our Father...its just fiction from the minds of men, not truth from the word of God
