In his book Four Spiritualities, Peter T. Richardson tells us that, "Before history, there was generally a golden age of a perfect social order...dissolution and chaos entered in through disobedience and unfaithfulness."

It is true that the world became a better place because of the influence of a handful of wise men, prophets, and gurus, those who managed to overcome the handicap of our subjective, self-conscious state, in which we are limited to seeing only what is good for us at the moment.  

Insight brings foresight, and both are the products of reasoning.  Building a philosophy using Jung's theory is leaving out what Jung left out-the factors that make both introverts and extroverts see the world through distorted lenses.

The way to enlightenment is not through the methods that put us in the dark-reacting irrationally through fear (emotionally), or reacting irrationally through anger (instinctively).  Nor is the way to enlightenment listening to that which keeps us in the dark-the ego.

Upon becoming enlightened what our wise men, prophets, and gurus saw was that the prevailing religions and political systems were not bringing about peace and equality.  They were bringing about dissolution and chaos.  

The masses were not to follow blindly, that is, aiding and abetting corrupt leaders, nor were they to pick up the sword against injustices coming from the top.  They were to seek enlightenment from within.  

If Jesus were to appear on the scene today he would encourage disobedience to the reigning warlords and false prophets, which would make him an enemy of both the state and the church.

It is true that our religions have passed on the words of the enlightened, but it is also true that the unenlightened, or those who have fallen back, have passed on distorted interpretations.

We know we have reached our goal when we are overcome with happiness just knowing we are alive, when following the Golden Rule is no longer a struggle but an added pleasure, and when we stop killing the messenger.

Richardson's ecumenical outlook is laudable, as it advances the cause of peace.  But by failing to get to the root of the problem he offers only half-truths that lead to dead-ends.   

