FIVE STARS, NOT TWO....F.F. Bruce is well known and respected far and wide for his honesty as a Christian scholar and apologist. This slim volume, 123 pgs, is true to form despite that as a Christian Bruce has a pre-ordained agenda to defend. Consider his painful honesty in this statement: "indeed, it may be we know nothing certain about the teacher into whose mouth the narrative is put; the story of Jesus as it has come down to us may be myth or legend, but the teaching ascribed to him, whether he was actually responsible for it or not, has a value all its own." How unlike the rabid fundamentalists who insist ever word is inspired of God, error free. He touches on many problem areas, but unfortunately does not develop them as he could have. Some areas not touched are more developed in his contributions to the book "Hard Sayings of the Bible", but even there, some elementary obvious problems, such as the two differing birth accounts of Jesus in Matthew vs. Luke, or the differences in the passion week account of John vs. the synoptics are mentioned in passing, but not developed. "The N.T. documents;are they reliable" thus introduces one to the existence of such areas of controversy, but that is all. It does more to establish the historicity of the accounts as being in the general time period they claim, particularly via Luke, with no less than eighteen historic contemporaries to challenge the reader to test the account validity. He reviews traditional Christian arguments to establish the accounts reliability such as what caused Paul to take such a direct about face from intense persecution to being a foremost leader in Christianity, yet acknowledging in the same chapter that Paul, whose writings are prior to the gospels, is only mentioned in Luke/Acts. Thus while doing a good job to establish the historicity of the New Testament accounts, Bruce also does not hedge on the internal problems of consistency of theology and event accuracy in reporting. He also acknowledges Mark being almost entirely incorporated into Matthew & Luke, and the Q document. Very recommendable due to it's honesty, and a good book for those beginning the subject, but lacking in development in looking at some of the specific events mentioned.   
