This book is a pathetic example of a radical left-wing professor as he rewrites history and political thought before you very eyes. There are numerous errors throughout the book but probably the most egregious is the authors link of Fascism to the right wing. While this may be the political fantasy of any and all true socialists it is far from the truth.  But let's get into the debate immediately and see if we can bring some Fact to this work of fiction.

First of all the author incorrectly calls the German Nazi's a fascist party. This is so absurd that it is easily rebuffed here, but first let me give a little history. The term NAZI was a nickname given to the members of the National Socialist German Workers Party (Socialist is the operative word here.) This is of course Hitler's outfit, which formed the core of the Third Reich. National Socialists are just another variation on the theme of Socialism and they acquired their nickname though a cartoon character, "Ignaz", nicknamed "Nazi" who was the stereotypical Jew. Before the horror of the reality set in, it seemed a good joke on the posturing, parading, clearly anti-Semitic national socialists to share a nickname with a Jewish cartoon character. Later, Stalin thought up the switch of the applying the Italian "fascist" designation to German national socialist in order to erase from memory that the Nazis were, in fact, socialist.

Fascist just for you information, refers to members of an Italian political party, founded and led by Benito Mussolini, who was expelled from the Socialist Party of Italy and went on to start his own. The structure was a copy, the concept a variant of other socialist parties. "Fasces," a bundle of twigs with an ax, were carried before consuls of ancient Rome. Mussolini adopted the symbol, hence the name "fascist."

Other popular names of Socialist parties are Bolshevik's and Communists. It is interesting to note that in Hungary alone, the communist party went through four complete name changes during its tenure. It is an integral part of socialist operational methodology to make an instant switch once a label has been tainted with "mistakes" (such as too many atrocities), or when a new compendium of deceptions is about to be announced.

Regardless of the name that a socialist party chooses they all have the same elements in common. They are as follows:

1. Restriction of Individual Freedom
2. A strong central authority
3. The usurpation of legislative and judicial prerogative by the executive branch of the government
4. Some suspension of property rights.

Since Hitler's party and the Mussolini's party both urged the people to go along with all four of the above premises, both the fascist and the Nazi's (National Socialist German Workers Party) was in reality a Socialistic endeavor. To label it conservative is a glaringly illogical deduction.

Since the author's main conclusion are drawn from such falsehoods the whole book is suspect and can be passed by and nothing but a propaganda front for the new-socialist and their continuing ploy to tar the conservatives with the atrocities of their political kin. 
