Sorry to say, I did judge this book by its cover, which is very attractive and eyecatching. After looking over several Narnia Guides, that was my determining factor in choosing this title.

But, ohmigosh! As another reviewer had mentioned redundancy, I'll try to find another word - and that would be tedious. Fully, LOTR is mentioned... well I stopped counting at 40 times, and that's not including the utterances of each of the trilogy's subtitles. I wasn't at all interested in comparison, and had I not already read the Tolkien series, and seen the movies, it would have been way-off base.

Think: "African elephants are like Indian elephants, they have different ears, which makes them alike, since they both have ears, but they are different, seeing one is not enough evidence to state one has actually seen an elephant which is strongly endorsed to be one or the other".

Sorry for the bad example, but it really reads like this. The last perhaps third of the book is dedicated to the collectibles and comments from WETA Wookshop, responsible for making the pictured items. Oddly enough, the items range in price from $150 to $300, and this is in a book written for children. Not including the back matter, the "guide" really stops on page 110 or so, but the next 70 pages contains theaspects of recorded versions, movie critique and the aforementioned trinkets for sale. 

This, and the enthusiastic approach to the Disney version, and charms and jewelry only add to the commercial overtones of the book. I'm sorry, I wanted more content, less trivia and chit-chat.

There was a bright spot, however, and that is the great list of other resources, including websites and reading materials. I do wish he had gone into a bit more detail of how so many of the C. S. Lewis papers and the Wardrobe ended up in of all places, Wheaton, Illinois - so far from the Kilns, and England itself.

Truthfully, the disclaimer about the book not being prepared, endorsed or authorized by C. S. Lewis Pte Ltd, or any associated entity should have been the tip-off that perhaps there are others more suited to what I was looking for.

I bought this for a gift. Sadly, after reading through it myself on Christmas Day, I was disappointed. If, as the author says in his own review, that future editions will address some of the problems, what good is that to those who have already bought it
