This book had some really wonderful authors in it and yet I found it lacking. 

I have to say that whoever wrote the back cover description made these stories sound more interesting than they really were.
~The first story is set in Hamilton's Antia Blake series inbetween "Blue Moon" and "Obsidian Butterfly". There was a plot and a halfway decent one, but it really went no where. It seemed it all was resolved while Anita was messing around with Jean-Claude. That's really what this story was centered around, sexual tension between Anita and Jean-Claude.
~The second story was set in Harris's Sookie Stockhouse series. I've never read any books from this series, so that might be why I couldn't get into this story. It really wasn't all that interesting. The characters sat around in a circle and had a chat and it all was just kinda boring. These first two stories, seemed like the authors just plopped them out, so the book could have thier names on it and be sure that die hard fans of the two popular series would buy it.
~The third story was set in Davidson's Undead series and I have to say that I actually enjoyed this one. Like all of Davidson's works it was a light and fun read. You don't have to of read any of her Undead series to follow it.
~The fourth story was one of Knight's and it was set in the same world as her story in the "Hot Blooded" anthology. I actually liked this story, but several people who I talked to didn't like it. They had trouble adjusting to the setting. I have to admit that the story in "Hot Blooded" was much better and was one of my favorites in that book. Because I read that story I could easily slip into this story. It's set with Arthurian characters as vampires and sounds utterly stupid, but I got into it.
~The last story was by Taylor who is an author I had never heard of. This story was alright. Nothing too thrilling and wasn't horrible to read and didn't leave you with a "well that was pointless" feeling at the end. The plot was interesting and acutally went somewhere. The characters were well developed. I think this was probably one of the better written stories in the book
