The authors set out on what *appeared* to be an interesting project. How could philosophy be reconstructed in order to be made compatible with the "results" of second-generation cognitive science? Yet Philosophy is not fundamentally an empirical enterprise. Empirical results, while interesting, do not often help to answer philosophical questions. Knowing that we conceptualize time as moving does little to tell us whether the A theory or the B theory of time is true. One of them must be, for they are mutually exclusive alternatives. Is space-time kind of substance, or is it merely a system of relations? Are propositions about the future true *now*? Nothing in this book will give you an inkling. The authors seem confused between a thing and and our conceptualization of it, and the majority of this book just seems like a long ad hominem circumstantial. Even if everyone who ever believed in God was absolutely insane, that would do nothing to settle the *philosophical* issue of whether or not God actually exists. The fact that we conceptualize time spatially tells us nothing about whether or not time is really like space. It might be, and it might not be, the fact that we conceptualize it thus is entirely irrelevant to the issue. The problem lies in their calling these cognitive mechanisms "metaphors", since calling them such presupposes that they cannot be literally true. Since the authors treat them as metaphors, they win by default, and there's simply no argument to be had. For example, they call "time is space" a metaphor. But is it really? The past does not seem to be co-located with the future. They do not interpenetrate each other, and this presupposes that they are indeed "separated" some quasi-spatial sense. It would have been better if the authors examine these "metaphors" as they went along to decide whether they were true or false, instead of postulating a priori that all conceptualizations must be nonliteral. For a whopping 600 pages the content is remarkably sparse. Their shallow analysis of philosophical theories is more likely to inspire laughter than serious reconsideration. Their theory of truth is also very deficient. If whatever is true is true "according to an understanding" how is it that anything ever turns out to be false? Suppose I have two patches of color that are almost exactly the same shade of red, but not quite. Let's call them red #96 and red #97. Suppose further that they look indistinguishable. Then I propose to you that the two patches are the same shade. You look at them and (mis)percieve that they are the same shade. So the proposition is true "according to your understanding". But it is in fact false. Truth fundamentally involves a relation between the asserting mind and the fact asserted, and all the cognitive science in the world cannot change that. I give this wasted exercise two stars
