The book Worth is about a poor farming family trying to survive in Nebraska.  After Nate crushed his leg in a farming accident, he was unable to help out around the farm. His father went to the orphan train, which was a train that brought homeless children from the East to find new homes, to get a boy to help with the farm work that Nate could no longer do. The boy's name was John Worth. Nate's father's actions hurt his feelings because he felt like he was being replaced by John.  He became very jealous of John.  John grew up in New York City, so he was not used to farm work.  His entire family died in a fire, so like Nate, he had his own problems to deal with.  The story follows the relationship between the two boys.  The ongoing battle between the ranchers and the farmers connect the two boys as they try to save the farms in the area.  

	In my opinion the book was not great because it was not a happy story. I didn't like the fact that there was a lot of talk of death in it. John was always talking about how his family died in a fire, and Nate was always talking about how his little sister, Missy, choked on some bread. I also didn't like the fact that the book didn't use proper English. It was written in an uneducated, rural Nebraska manner, so it was hard to read and understand at times.   In one sentence Nate says "Didn't do me no good" when he was describing how he was trying to keep up with the pain he was feeling.

	At the end, the book started getting better. Nate and John were stopping the fence cutters, who were people who cut fences to let the cattle out.  They went to help Widow Kerensky, a customer of John's parents', by chasing away the fence cutters. Widow Kerensky pulled a gun on John thinking he was a fence cutter, but then took the gun away when she saw Nate because she knew him.  I liked this part because it was filled with action and I felt like I was hiding in the grass there, watching them.  


	The book Worth was not one of my favorite books. I would not want to read the book again, but I would recommend it to anyone looking for a historical fiction book. Although I learned a lot about the hardships of living on a farm, it did not have enough action to hold my attention.  All in all I didn't really like the book.        
