Amy Welborn has written a kind of book that I find hard to believe exists at all: A book written specifically in reaction to another book, with the intention of debunking it. The funny thing is, that other book is a fiction thriller novel. Anyone else find this odd?

Catholic apologists have been bashing Dan Brown's peculiarly popular DaVinci Code for the past few years, apparently because their faith is threatened by it. It escapes me why any devout Catholic (or any Christian for that matter) would feel the least bit unnerved by a fiction novel but since several books have been written in attempt to destroy the DaVinci code, I must comment on them. 

I found the DaVinci Code to be a slick, fast-paced thriller which uses Catholic themes and history to drive a fictional (yes, FICTIONAL) tale of murder, codes, art, etc. Little did I know when I read the book that some people would be so affected by it that they would go on to write books of their own, leeching off of Dan Brown's success and generally using the old "But I heard that..." approach to debate and of course failing miserably.

The fact that a number of books have been published that basically attack Dan Brown's work is distressing, the same way that Michael Moore is distressing: I'm no fan of widely-published, personal attacks on others. In this case Catholics are writing to defend their faith like holy crusaders against a fiction novel which has been bolstered in popularity, not weakened, by the Church's jihad against it. This shows a prime weakness of the Chuch: They use their book (the Bible, and subsequent liturgy) to bash someone else's book. 

I love a good argument, but Welborn's book (and the other attacks on DaVinci Code) is a classic "I'm right because my beliefs and my church say I am. THIS is the truth, don't believe that other guy" ploy. The obvious spectacular degree of arrogance shown here only furthers the divide between rational readers (like those who read the DaVinci Code and enjoyed it because it was a fun fiction thriller and nothing more) and those who would go out of their way to make a huge crying fit over a novel that happens to use the Church as the basis for fiction.

Don't waste your time with a book like De-Coding Da Vinci. It's a subjective assault on a popular novel, a book intended to encourage Catholics (and others that have been swept up on the controversy surrounding DaVinci Code) to bash the book every chance they get, as opposed to simply accepting its popularity and not believing its fiction if they don't wish to. Of course not everything in The DaVinci Code is true. Everyone else seems to understand this. There is no need to write a book about it, unless one's own insecurity about their personal faith and religion is so complete that it becomes necessary. In that case, be my guest.


