This is another in a long history of books written by blind men describing the elephant's trunk. Other great books and essays in this tradition include "Free to Choose" by Milton and Rose Friedman, "The Law" by Frederick Bastiat, and "Economics in One Lesson" by Henry Hazlitt. All these books are quite good at describing the trunk (or a tree), but miss the elephant (or the woods) in the process.

For what it covers, it is a fine book.

However, Sowell forgets to apply all of his principles to the most influential business organization in the market, the corporation. The corporation has the perpetual life, limited liability and personhood. The qualities of limited liability and personhood could not be reproduced without government intervention in the market. Yet, limited liability and personhood are ignored so that he can focus on rent control or price controls. Are rent controls really more important to the economy than a corporation?

Before the libertarians and conservatives that are reading this get their [...] bunched over a corporation being able to be created without government intervention, think about a third party being hurt by a corporate action. If a corporation mistakenly dumps toxic waste on land that you own then goes out of business, who is responsible? Answer: No one. You made no contract with the offending corporation, neither explicitly nor implicitly. You are left paying for the mistake that others made because the government granted limited liability (or limited irresponsibility) to corporate investors.

Is limited liability so trivial that it can be ignored? If yes, then let's get rid if it. No more limited liability. If no, why doesn't Sowell explore the unintended consequences of this government intervention?

I suggest you take Sowell's advice and think about the secondary and tertiary consequences of corporate limited liability and personhood. Now that could make a good book. Does limited liability change incentives? Does the gathering of capital through limited liability have an impact on political campaigns and lobbying (and through lobbying, changes in the law)?

This book is just more stuff, on a pile of stuff that was better written
