     This book has some interesting hypotheses but I don't believe it makes the case for the "Rape is the Last-Resort Reproductive Strategy" hypothesis as well as the Ghiglieri book does.  It is known that rape is widespread throughout the animal kingdom, or something resembling mating by forceful coercion at any rate.  I expected to see more of that kind of discussion than just a bunch of old statistics regarding us boring old homo sapiens.  Keep in mind, though, that among humans the majority of rapists are men in their sexually peak years, and the majority of victims are those women in their peak reproductive stages as well.  Sure, there are super-psychos that rape old women, kids or men, for example, but the mere existance of those datapoints do nothing to blunt the force of the evidence in favor of the theory that rape is the last-resort reproductive strategy.  In fact, it is well-known that the majority of rapes that occur: a) are date rapes! and b) an overwhelming number of the victims tend to be college aged women!  Also, let me say that explaining why something happens is NOT the same as justifying it.  Given that Thornhill's wife is actually a rape counselor (!) it would be quite odd if he wrote a book justifying it, to say the least.  What Thornhill and Palmer seek to do is take something that is a norm (yes, a norm!) of human culture, and try and figure out why the hell it's been going on for as long as anybody knows, and why it still is!  
     I do not believe that there is much scientists or anthropologists can say about a human nature: but they can say that men enjoy forming groups of men to go and kill 'outsiders' (however they may be so designated) (aka "war"); that many youngish men don't mind raping women, and in fact studies have shown that many men are turned on by depictions of rape in movies, magazines, etc; that most men are turned on by lesbian sex, and most women are NOT generally turned on by homosexual sex (i.e., men-on-men); and, finally that people like to congregate in coastal areas to consume cheap alchololic beverages when they have spare time (aka "vacation").  That's about all that can be said about a 'human nature.'  
     Let me end by noting that even if rape is a reproductive strategy for the lowest of the low- who have no other chance to mate- well, it is a very very UNSUCCESSFUL strategy when compared to normal one of picking up some tramp in a bar; or say, meeting a women around town and having an actual relationship with her, or meeting a girl in HS or college perhaps.  Whatever the case may be, rape is seldom successful in impregnating women, that's why most men don't do it!  In one behavioral ecology study, if I recall correctly, a study on scorpion flies, it was observed that out of 74 scorpion fly 'rapes', or matings that appeared to be forced, only 2 resulted in female scorpion flies being successfully impregnated!  Dung flies also engage some brutal tactics, every bit as brutal as some scumbag beating a women or drugging her drink at a bar or something.
     I by no means intend this review to be comprehensive, but only to convey the fact that there is some substance to Thornhill and Palmer's claims, but they do a poor poor job for making their case.  All in all, I wouldn't recommend buying this book, buy Ghiglieri's instead and read Alcock's The Triumph of Sociobiology to get an overall better feel for Thornhill and Palmer's argument.  Finally, however, I believe that one thing that helps us humans out is that we can actually critically evaluate our thoughts and actions: if somebody says, "I couldn't help raping so-and-so, (or maybe just 'random woman')," then I would simply reply: "Take some bloody responsibilty for your actions, of course you could help yourself!"  A dung fly may not be able to decide, based on complex cognitive functions, to not rape a female dung fly, but a man can certainly decide not to rape a woman. 
