William Dembski is one of the great names in the Intelligent Design-movement.  He holds a Ph.D. in mathematics and philosophy, and have earned grades in theology an psychology. When such a man writes a book and call it "Intelligent Design - The bridge between science & theology" I had great expectations that he had succeeded in making this important bridge.

I think  you can read this book in at least two ways.  One, as an introduction to how the leading people behind this movement think, and for such a presentation I give the book 4 stars.  Dembski is very good at using interesting parables to illustrate his arguments.

But as a bridge between science and theology it is totally failing.  And that is sad because the probability for Intelligent Design is in fact high as Dembski shows us, but Dembski mess it up through most of his book.  As science I give this book 1 star and end up with a compromise at 2 stars.

Dembski uses much space to general logic.  As to show that if you have two similar books containing the same Shakespeare-play, these two books doesn't have any more information together than one of the books alone.  OK. And so what?  After pages with such stuff you begin to be impatience and wonder how and when will all this logical stuff be used to prove Intelligent Design?  And then, as you have waited and waited, Dembski finally writes that it is not space in this chapter (and not in other chapters either)to explain the Big Bang by his Intelligent Design theories.  What a disappointment.  Couldn't he instead have skipped some of the logic?  But after a while you understand that Dembski actually lacks any intentions to reveal the most basic things that normally should have concerned Intelligent Design.  He claims that intelligence leaves behind a characteristic signature in nature, and that these signatures are observable.  Why can't he tell us what this observable signatures are? He writes that God's fingerprints in nature are imperically detectible. But how? Why wont he tell us? 

Dembski writes that something is made by intelligence when it can show both complexity and specification.  Ink spelt on a paper can show some complexity in pattern, but it is not specified before the ink spells letters and words with meaning.  He then uses this criteria for intelligent design in nature, and call it science and a proof of Intelligent Design when nature is both complex and specified. But can you prove God this way?  I think you only can believe in Intelligent Design, and that a strong probability for God never fully can prove Him anyway. Dembski does not try to prove God either, he just confirm that God exists because he have seen him in nature as the result of intelligent design.  No one can criticise you for believing in an intelligent designer, but if you want to make this belief into science, it is not enough just to call it science, as Dembski does.  You have to fullfill certain criteria and rules to call something science.  Dembski dosen't follow these rules at all.  

Dembski spend much of his time in this book to criticise others for not being scientific, often just because they don't accept Intelligent Design as science.  He says that naturalism is metaphysic, and not science based on evidence.  If he had used his own definitions he uses on others, the Intelligent Design he presents wouldn't either be scientific.    

He neither seems to remember what he wrote some pages earlier. After "proving" that Christ was the Logo by which the world was created, he later writes that Intelligent Design not necessarily must have originated from any specifically god at all. Are you confused like me?

An interesting objection to the kind of Intelligent Design that Dembski presents, namely that God interacts and design the nature all the time, is why then He design crippled people, hiv-virus an so on all the time?  Dembski just brush those with such objections off by calling them unscientific. If Dembski instead had advocated that God started it all by "shooting a billiard ball" with a very precision, that interacted with other "balls" that fine-tuned the universe and started the evolution that eventually ended up with the complicated human being, Dembski could have accepted naturalism as well as Intelligent Design, and then nature could have been responsible, at least in some way, for it's mishaps instead of blaming God, as Dembskis theories leads towards, though he denies it.

In this book Dembski claims to represent, among others, the 90 % of the people in the United States who believe that some kind of transcendent force created the world. I believe the same, but fear that books like this more destroy than helps to make a bridge between science and theology. 
