A review states the Mark Noll "loves God and loves academics".  In spite of his very impressive collection of books on religion, I feel he loves academics more.  This book is lifeless and seems to lack respect for 19th century religion and religious thought.  The prose is for academicians.  At no time will the author use a ten-letter word when he can find a twenty-letter one.

This is a book about religious intellectuals, saying very little about how the people felt or what they were hearing at services.  We move from one essays or debate or article to another, with little development or effort to access the impact of the item.  A problem could be that these items did not make a real impact, being nothing more than talking points on the road to war.  The author interjects his views and beliefs constantly, which seem very 21st century and totally out of place.

In an effort to "be inclusive" Catholics, Jews, Mormons and free Black churches are included.  This is interesting but the majority of America belong to four or five major churches where the crisis takes place.  Do we really care that the Mormons feel the failure to elect their leader President in 1856, brought on the Civil War?  This information and justification of the idea consumes about 1% of the book's text.

A good point is the discussion of the Biblical justification of slavery and the response of the abolitionists.   This helps understand how in an anti-slavery society, the abolitionists were still not accepted.  Their response was seen by the majority of Christians to reject the Bible's teachings.  This very important point if completely developed would have been a major contribution to the value of the book.

A real missed opportunity was to have a frank discussion of race in the years leading up to the war.  "The negro question" chapter never takes the "gloves off".  While suggested, the pervasive racial discrimination of 19th century America gets glossed over.  Little is said about the idea of colonization or the laws preventing Negros from living where they wished.  The author deals with slavery but refuses to detail the racism that is its' foundation.  Doing so, would have required a frank discussion of the plight of the Irish and Germans during this time.

Having just read Woodworth's excellent book on religion may color my view about this one.  The difference in approach, historical information and readability is remarkable.
