When I read Medicine Woman I taken aback at how it possibly could have convinced anyone that it was anything other than a mildly absurd romance.  Still, not being a native person or living in Manitoba, where the events of the novel take place, I thought it presumptuous of me to offer judgement on the events related in this work.  A quick search on-line lead to me the Canadian Journal of Native Studies, who reviewed Andrews' work when it first came out,  but here is a small taste of what the Manitoba native community thought of her work:

'... the novel reaches its misinformed heights when the narrator arrives in Canada.  True to a Californian's perception of Manitoba, the narrator steps off a plane in Winnipeg and sets off across " the Canadian tundra."  The time is year is supposedly spring, yet Andrews describes the "grand rolling fields" where "green grasses twisted and curled in the wind" (p.21)  Prairie grass does not get long enough to blow in the breeze until July, which means that the narrator either does not know what season it is, or believes that it is cold enough on the "tundra" at all seasons to justify her "sweaters, wool socks, and flannel pajamas."
	Andrews' first encounter with the Cree in Crowley typifies her misguided and often insulting perception of native people.  Throughout the book, the natives treat her with indifference, insult, or degradation, and the narrator is either too slow-witted, or too taken with the esoteric nature of her experiences to realize it.  Although supposedly a reserve town, Crowley is just like all the Western towns in Hollywood movies.  It consists of some houses and a "Trading Post" full of "brown round-faced children eating Hostess cupcakes."  All the adults are dressed in cowboy clothes because they are roping cattle at a Rodeo down the road.  The Manitoba Cree undoubtedly practice cattle roping during the summer when their trap lines are inactive, although Andrews has not suggested what they would use for cattle in the black spruce and muskeg marsh lands in which most of them live.'
	The directions which Andrews obtains from the Indians at the Trading Post are sufficiently vague so that she does not know whether to follow the road or to search for Agnes Whistling Elk up on the "Black Mesa."  It is not surprising, therefore, that Andrews is unable to find either Agnes or a geographical feature which does not exist in Manitoba.'[...]

