A neighbor gave me this book to read.  I have read the DaVinci Code and I thought it was good fiction mixed with some fact.  Of Course Dan Brown strings together many unrelated truths half truths and fabrications to make his story interesting, so it is quite easy to write an expose showing where he stepped over the line.  This critique of The DaVinci Code goes too far the other way trying to spin "Orthodox" Christianity as the only true religion and the "Orthodox" point of view the only "true" history of the last 2000 years.  The authors have dumbed down the subject matter, omitted information and scholarship contrary to their point of view, and created a book that borders on propaganda.  One part of the book that I found very annoying was the failure to address the historical excesses of institutional or "Orthodox" Christianity.  The Authors criticise Brown for writing that the Church (both Catholic and Protestant) Burned or otherwise murdered "Millions" of heretics.  The authors concede that the number is closer to 50 or 60 thousand.  So which is worse?  Making a mistake concerning the number of heretics murdered?  Or defending the institution that actually murdered thousands of people?  (And I would assume if we add in the Crusades both against the Muslims and the "heretics" we'd probably get a lot closer to the million than thousand figure.)  Another spin made by the authors actually caused me to laugh out loud.  You should read how these "Orthodox" scholars are spinning the female responsibility for the fall/oppression of females nexus.  Here's what they say.  The original sin in the Bible was Adam not working hard enough to spiritually protect his family.  This is a very "unorthodox" and "unbiblical spin designed to distract you from the fact that Judaism, Islam and Christianity have for centuries oppressed women because Eve ate the Fruit First.  What does Brother Paul say about it   

11 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.

12 But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp* authority over the man, but to be in silence*.

13 For Adam was first formed, then Eve.

14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression.

15 Notwithstanding she* shall be saved in childbearing, if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety 

I think Paul would be very angry reading the Author's attempt to put a "new age" spin the scripture to fit a more modern interpretation of the story.  This spin also flies in the face of Christian History.  And I do not feel any better about it even though the Authors point out that pagan cultures have abused women as well.  So what?  Do two wrongs make a right? If Orthodox Christianity is "true" why did it take the institution almost 2000 years to figure out that men and women were equal and figure out that the story in Genesis and Paul's exposition of it were wrong? 

Ultimately this book fails because it is plain dishonest.  Yes it points out some issues where Dan Brown obviously inflates the truth, or even creates it out of nothing.  Brown's book has historical errors and it does have a point of view and an agenda.  However, this does not excuse the propaganda and misdirection contained in "Cracking Da Vinci's Code."
