I was reading the other reviews and wondered if I was reading the same book.  I even checked the cover to make sure.  Yep, I read the same book but didn't get the same information out of it than other people had.  In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if all of the other reviews were from Ryan Allis' mother, neighbors, and friends just to boost the book's credibility.

Here's the deal:  I've actually built and sold my company and didn't do it the way Ryan Allis suggested.  Not even close.  Okay, so maybe he has a different method, right?  I just don't see how it's possible to build a company the way he outlines, then to sell it?

I think that he's trying to cover way too much information in this book.  That's the first problem.

The second problem is this:  He tries to "fluff out" the book by adding extraneous information like "globalization" and why there was the "dot bomb crash" in the late 90s.  WHO CARES?  It's like he purposely adds useless information to either make himself seem more intelligent, confuse his readers, mask that he doesn't know what he's talking about or add pages to what would otherwise be a 50-page book.

Another issue I have is that he has his readers do an "opportunity recognition and evaluation" of a company that they would like to start.  Such companies he was able to "brainstorm" are making oxygen tanks so dogs and cats can go diving, flavored straws, sonar for blind people, a teddy bear with sensors and small computer inside that would talk to infants/toddlers and encourage good behavior or tell them a bedtime story (then what are parents for?), restaurants for dogs and cats and a variety of other SUPER LAME business ideas.

I have a lot of business experience under my belt and, if you are considering starting a business, here's my advice:  Don't reinvent the wheel.  Take a concept that someone else is doing very successfully, add your own twist to it, and your product or service through direct response (direct mail, Internet, etc.).  And that's it.

What's with the oxygen tanks for dogs and cats so they can go diving?  Is this guy out of his [CENSORED] mind?  I love my pets too much to subject them to something that would freak them out like underwater diving.  And doesn't he know that cats HATE THE WATER?

This is precisely why I like the book Multiple Streams of Income by Robert Allen so much.  He gives the BEST business ideas with actual step-by-step plans to go with it.  No guessing, reinventing the wheel, inventing some lame-brain product that is destined to fail, and pushing people in the wrong business direction.

If you are thinking of starting a business, don't buy this book.  If you have a business and would like to sell it, don't buy this book.  In fact, I can't think of ANY reason to buy this book
