
If you wish to own a book produced with the customary competence of HBS Press, nice paper and all, this book is certainly worth it. If you wish to purchase a book that provides some information about the history of economics then too it is worth it. But if you are looking for what the author pretends this book to be then you would be sorely disappointed.

The key theme of this book is that there is a new field of Complexity Economics, the preserve of the Santa Fe Institute, which is so revolutionary that it would lead mankind to truly, finally understand the Origins of Wealth. Well, in the excitement that that promise held, I actually ended up reading the whole tome. It helped me recall and recollect some tried and true ideas of economics, a refresher course of sorts, but left me with an aweful, disappointing feeling as well.

First, and foremost, the author simply lacks the intellect to cover and comprehend the complexity he is attempting to simplify for us. He can hardly hold the attention of the reader on a single page, on a single theory, let alone do so across conflicting ideas, or across the whole 500 pages. Many of his understandings are so superlous that he misses the essence of some of the key economists of history. His quotes are always unknown and irrelevant ones, and one is left to think why he chose them, not so many more relevant and applicable ones.

Second, the phrase complexity economics may be new but the idea that economics is complex or interdependent or organic is as old as the field itself. Behaviorial economics has already won a Nobel Prize, and investor irrationality two more, which prizes are awarded decades after the original contribution. Even John Keynes had written extensively about investor rationality decades ago.

Third, one is constantly fed the party line of the Santa Fe Institute, which is part pop-culture, part academic, part baloney and part intellectual theft. That the author is a McKinsey advisor does help one commisurate as a reader with the poor effort, after all their hot air is best left for short reports not full books.

Fourth, most importantly, the book takes off the title from Charles Darwin's Origin of Species. Oops. There is no attempt to address why economics is an organic field, or how that theory of complexity about a living system has any relevance whatsoever. Here the book is not even a history book for it is stunningly unfamiliar with the literature on the subject. There is a mention here or there but which leaves one thinking of what he has missed, not what he has covered. The area claimed by complexity economics has been covered by so many fields and so many writers, that even old Nobel laureates like Herbert Simon were hardly revolutionary.

Fifth, the second half of the book just collapses into garbled garbage. There are chapters about finance and the random walk hypothesis, leaving one to wonder what the author is even selling and why. Is the economy so complex as to be a random walk, which the author rejects (explicitly), or is the complexity by design, which too the author rejects (implicitly).
Recall the early part of the book where the author says it is by design but there is no designer. OK? and what has that got to do with complexity economics, or behavioral economics or random walk theories.

Sixth, the book is no more than the scrapbook of an overly hyperactive but terribly undertrained mind. Nothing captures this book better than the scene in which top scientists and top economists are brought together (by John Reed of Citibank I think, or else why is he mentioned so much in a book about economics). The author talks the usual mumbo jumbo, even citing scientists ridiculing economists. Well complexity economics rests on all the slippery slopes that traditional economics does. One cannot get out of that conumdrum by living within it.

Seventh, any author that cites John Reed of Citibank has no idea what he is talking about. John was a technologist and an engineer who revolutionized Citibanks back office, and blew it three times. He does not in any sense have any understanding of any financial system, other than as a manager of a company in which his tasks to the end were technological or personnel. Also any author that cites Malthus again and again should be condemned to the same failure as Malthus was. What Edsel was to the auto industry, Malthus (and this author, if he was any good) are to economics.  

Finally, no economist can ever escape the limitations of economics without conceding that finance or economics are like medicine (not chemistry) and law (not laws of physics). They are in their nature inherently practical pursuits, not science in any sense. Just like the sideeffects of a particular medicine can never be predicted for every individual, ever, economics can never predict perfectly. Every great economist, including Adam Smith, Von Mises, Keynes and Milton Friedman have been moral philosophers, who wrote books on social, political and philosophical issues in their spare time. Each thus understood how small an area they truly knew. So the hope of the author of leading humanity to some new threshold of revolution is a trumpet that has been sounded since the dawn of economics, and will alas, be trumpeted again and again by the economist turned seer turned consultant turned author.

RANDOM HOUSE WAS RIGHT TO DUMP THE AUTHOR, FOR THE AMAZON RECORDS SHOW IT WAS THE ORIGINAL PUBLISHER WHO ANNOUNCED THE BOOK, ALHOUGH HBS PRESS WALKS ON WATER TOO. WRONG CHOICE THIS TIME THOUGH.  



