I got a copy of Sundown Towns, after a guy that I occasionally walk with in the early morning told me about the book.  When I went to check the book out, I discussed it in part with the library clerk and another woman. The clerk stated our small town was mentioned in Sundown Towns, and thought the book had been incorrectly researched. Since I'm one of those people that still believe non-fiction should be told as correctly (and truthfully) as possible, I immediately started reading.
First page, Chapter One, had me wondering right off the bat.  Having read Professor Loewen's credentials, I must say I was a bit disappointed.  And if he relied only on information he obtained from a convenience store clerk, then he and I haven't gotten off on the right foot. In order not to confuse anyone that might happen to read this review, let me quote Loewen's conversation with the clerk:

	Is it true that `ANNA' stands for `Ain't No Niggers Allowed?" I asked at the 
	convenience store in Anna, Illinois, where I had stopped to buy coffee.
		"Yes," the clerk replied.  "That's sad, isn't it," she added, distancing
	herself from the policy.  And she went on to assure me, "That all happened
	a long time ago."
		"I understand [racial exclusion] is still going on?" I asked.
		"Yes," she replied.  "That's sad."

NOW, from the HISTORY of ALEXANDER, UNION AND PULASKI COUNTIES, ILLINOIS on page 371-72 of Part II, Chapter XIV, clearly states how Anna, Illinois came to be named ANNA, which reads:

	During the year of 1853, Winstead Davie, who then owned the most of the land which is now the site of the city of Anna, and Col. Lewis W. Ashley, Division Engineer, who had come into possession of a portion of the same tract, determined to lay out a town at this point.  The proper surveys were made by Francis H. Brown, the County Surveyor, and lots were laid out on both sides of Main Street and the railroad.  Mr. Davie decided to name the town in honor of his beloved wife, ANNA, and under this name, the plat was entered upon the county records on March 3, 1854.
	
To include such a statement that Loewen used to begin his non-fiction book, I would have definitely sought a more reliable source of information than a convenience store clerk, who may or may not have known the correct answer to his question in the first place, but didn't want to appear stupid, especially if he had bothered to introduce himself. 
And that's enough said about this part of Sundown Towns.
I then went to the book's index and looked up the small town where I live.  I turned to page 187 and there it was, in black and white.  Loewen writes that "according to Robyn Williams, a nearby teacher, Eldorado sported a sundown sign until the 1980s. (Unfamiliar with the term `nearby teacher', I assume a NEARBY teacher is one that does not teach in Eldorado, but in a NEARBY town). 
Again, I discussed this statement with other life-long residents, and to the best of everyone's recollection, no such `sundown town' sign existed in the 50s, 60s, 70s, or 80s.  I was, however, told by my mother (another life-long resident) that once upon a time, such a sign was displayed on the edge of Eldorado. When it was removed, I cannot say for sure. But certainly, it was not sported until the 1980s, as Loewen has written, or a nearby teacher stated.
Eldorado is a small, close knit town, where very little happens that goes unnoticed.  I won't dispute Loewen's next statement about a white couple adopting a biracial child, and then had raw sewage thrown on their lawn, and other problems that caused them to leave town shortly thereafter.  BUT, I've never heard that story before either. There is a couple that adopted two African American children a long time ago. They still live in Eldorado, the children attended the local schools for twelve years, and to my knowledge they were never mistreated.
If Loewen is intent on writing about how the white man has, over the years, mistreated those of a different color and ethnicity, then perhaps he should rely more on the history books that have already been written, instead of consulting convenience store clerks and nearby teachers, who are probably either too young to know, too far removed, or else too ignorant of the facts to comment one way or the other. But no matter what he writes, and God knows he must have spent a great deal of time putting this book together, he should be more certain of the facts. There's enough racial dissension in the world today without authors like Loewen writing books that could possibly create more. 	     	      This type of writing makes southern Illinois look bad enough, but for someone who has never lived here and isn't familiar with the area, to write incorrectly about it, then I guess that really bothers me.  No doubt, my sentiments show in this review. History has painted a very unfavorable picture of the white man's treatment of African Americans and other minority groups, and it is quite sad.  But what, if anything, can we hope to gain if we continue to "pour salt in the wounds", expressing that this very situation still exists today.  Then again, there was a Hurricane Katrina. 	
