Derrida gets 2 stars for FINALLY coming around to writing about social and political issues. The book itself is interesting, but the fact of the matter is, it's not good Marxism. He's remained ambiguous even since the 1968 French University protests of 1968. His only discussions of Marx revolved around his critique of Hegel, and I believed he dropped Lenin's name a few times in &quot;Positions&quot;. Still, Derrida's entry into Marxism is a disappointing one. While he never claims to be a Marxist, one would expect him to be aware of the basic tenents of Marxism. The problem with Derrida's book is it's fetishism of the spirit. The specter takes precedence over the material. Ultimately, Derrida misses the point of historical materialism completely. History is ALWAYS present...there is no specter. In Marx's view we are always creating our own history, as part of our nature as human beings. Furthermore, Derrida's dialectics in the book is far from dialectical materialism. Despite what he claims to be a thorough reading of the German Ideology, he falls into the same traps of the Young Hegelians Marx critiques. His dialectics posits an a priori state, beyond history, language, and everything. Derrida claims he doesnt but this &quot;presence non-presence&quot; of the specter applies something beyond both the material and memory. Regardless, neither of these options suit Marx.  Consciousness (das Basswussein I believe?) is the life-blood of the human being, and her/his existence. It is material in and of itself. There is no to come, it is always in process, always becoming, it is in transition. It is not a state of being as &quot;to&quot; implies...it IS being. Anyone who wants a refutation of Derrida need merely read the &quot;camera obscura&quot; passage of the German Ideology. Furthermore, had Derrida read MORE early Marx, and paid attention to the seminal importance of the &quot;Grundrisse&quot; in linking humanism to the political critique and the economic critique, he might've been more clear on what dialecitcal and historical materialism entail. We see how historical materialism is a humanism. (If anyone notices a similarity to the Sartre essay &quot;Existentialism is a Humanism&quot;, kudos...it has a purpose. I think Derrida (and even Marx himself) would've benefited from Sartre's reading of Marx. Anyone who would like a nice concise exposition of that reading that has some familiarity with Marx need only read Sartre's &quot;Search for a Method&quot;).  Derrida's clear misreading of Marx will make the book a confusing and misleading read for anyone not already familair with Marx, so I recommend read the Econ./Phil. Manuscripts, Chapters 1, 5, 6, 7, 19, 25 of Capital, , the 1st 15 pages of the Ger. Ideo., and the intro to the Grundrisse and the intro to the Contribution to the Critique of Pol. Econ. or at least SOME of the above writings by Marx. (Another complaint not related to Derrida's reading of Marx is his statement that justice is undeconstructible. Why? The quasi-universal cop out is annoying. Thats a contradiction in terms...I think Derrida needs to stop with the Heideggerian wordplay and make up his mind about foundationalism and deconstruction.) Still, Derrida writes some startlingly beautiful passages about social justice (the part that talks about how &quot;never even the histroy of the world have their been more people starved, killed, and disenfranchised at the hands of a government or should I say empire&quot; or something like that. But flashy rhetoric and Derrida's impeccable, yet esoteric writing style cannot save him from the fact that ultimately his own lack of theoretical grounding, practicality, and activism prevents one from acheiving any praxis from this book. Its merely another interesting exposition of Derrida's thought (mental masturbation). It's a Coney island sideshow...seductive and alluring at first glance, but it looes its luster, interest and shock after repeated visits. Specters of Marx is more frustrating than it is fresh
