I can remember years ago when Kathryn Harrison appeared on Irish TV to be interviewed by Gay Byrne. The studio audience - unlike that of many other shows - were allowed to ask the guest questions, and they seemed to be singularly unimpressed with her. One could almost hear their collective bored sigh as the stereotype clicked into place. Here, in short, was yet another loopy American with no sense of privacy and no grasp of propriety.

Harrison's story, in a nutshell, was that she was 'seduced' by a 'powerful' father at the age of 20, carried on an affair with him for years, and she was now trying to exorcise this episode of her life with this book.

Here's the first problem. In every society (including even in Ms. Harrison's California), there is a wholly uncontroversial taboo against incest, and the normal, *human* reaction from anyone involved in it is shame, especially when they are the victim. The *abnormal* reaction is to swiftly write a potboiler, spare the reader no details, hire an agent, and do the rounds of the talks shows. Please spare me the usual bromides about having 'courage' or undergoing 'catharsis' - someone who suffers the mortification of having been involved in incest simply lacks the indecency required to self-promote in *any* form.

Here's the second problem. Harrison was not some helpless eight-year old. Rather, she was 20 at the time of her affair, and was therefore a consenting adult. Her whole argument throughout is that she was seduced by an overpoweringly dominant male when she was in a friable emotional state. She couldn't have just said No? Her willful self-weakening fails to convince: rather it conjures up the author as a pitiful rather than pitiable figure. It's just too convenient, I'm afraid, that the 'strong victimizer / weak victim' alibi is the *only* story which would exonerate her from what is plainly a voluntary act of depravity. Harrison seems to have credited herself with zero accountability for what she got herself involved in. Is the reader to assume that she had no choice at any point during the years in which this affair dragged on? To swallow this interpretation is asking rather too much.

Here's the third problem. Usually when books like this come out they break some kind of taboo, and shine a bright (and useful) light into a hitherto unexplored problem in society. But what adult ever faces the agonising decision of whether or not to sleep with their Dad? And oddly enough, Ms. Harrison's lubricious revelations have yet to draw forth an army of anguished parent-bonkers from any walk of life. Could it be that she's the only one? I hesitate to use the first word in the term 'freak occurrence', but that's what comes to mind. She certainly seems to be the only one with a publicist
