(2.5 Stars) When I first began reading WH, I was turned around a bit on the chracters as well some language styles, so I decided to cheat and check out the list of characters that was in the back. I soon realized how unhelpful it was and very disappointed by its lack of contributing nothing more than the obvious. What I mean is, instead of helping me deciphor who was who and in relation to one antoher, in which a geneology would have been better, they merely gave very short snippets of description that was actually in the text itself. I got through all the relations by my friend who supplied me with a genology chart.

There were also endnotes that state the obvious as well and it was very tedious to have to keep flipping back to see if they would clarify anything. One character speaks in special Englilsh dialect that was difficult to read and understand. The author suggests that you just need to read it aloud and you'll understand it. Granted, that's true, but a translation in the endnotes would have been nice too. 

There is a timeline at the beginning, which is nice but I'm not sure what the point of it was and it seemed randomly placed. At the back again, there is a short discussion on the motifs/themes of the book. It was somewhat enlightening but they point out things the reader would have picked up anyway. But, one thing that was really interesting was that there was a short essay on how the book was received from Bronte's time as well into modern times. The short bio at the beginning was done well though.

The overall language of the book was modernized while still keeping certain dialec and stylistic elements of Bronte that didn't really work well. It was very awkward at times but nevertheless, very readable. 

Someone who wants a less intimidating introduction to Bronte or any classical works will find this book helpful (& others in this series). But for those of you who are used to a more strict classical interpretation with a more academic flavor, this is NOT the book for you. You will find it somewhat dull, unchallenging and tedious. The language is not very sophisticated nor reminiscent of the linguistic era (which I enjoy, you may not, so...)

The STORY of WH was fascinating. I both hated it and loved it. There were times when I just wanted to chuck the book across the room because I found it SO vile, the charcters so enraged and violent, selfish and horrible. I haven't feld that way since I read Ann Rice's 'Memnoch the Devil'. I've never read a more passionate and fierceer book; and while I read, I was both dreading it yet couldn't wait to see what happened. 

I read this several days ago and I'm still buzzing from it. The confusion of the names is a very interesting device, clever and sly. Bronte was ahead of her time, fusing both the gothic novel with supernatural, dramatic and tragic styles. The evolution of 3 generations was so complex yet the progression of each was so vivid and stand out on their own. I haven't decided if I hate or love Heathcliff and Catherine, if even I can forgive them for their nature. And the wonderful way that Bronte wrote was not just the language of words but in the way she used the wilderness of the moors as a description of their wild selves. 
