"River Run Red" is a retelling of tired old lies.

In 1871 a Congressional investigation cleared Nathan Bedford Forrest not only of his alleged involvement with the KKK but also reinvestigated the "Ft. Pillow Massacre" and found that were that while there was evidence that there were isolated incidents along the riverbank Forrest personally stopped them as soon as he arrived on-scene.

If there was so much "proof" of a "massacre" why was Forrest not charged with a crime even after an in-depth Congressional investigation?

Forrest took 39 United States Colored Troops (USCT) as prisoner and, according the Federal Official Records, also turned over the 14 most severely wounded USCT to the Acting Master of the U.S. Steamer Silver Cloud.  These were hardly acts consistent with a "massacre."

Forrest was accused of ordering the burning of Union barracks with wounded Union soldiers inside.  In the Federal Official Records Lieutenant Daniel Van Horn, Sixth U.S. Colored Heavy Artillery, reported, "Lieutenant John D. Hill, Sixth U. S. Heavy Artillery, was ordered outside the fort to burn some barracks, which he, with the assistance of a citizen who accompanied him, succeeded in effecting."

Mr. Ward wrote that, "When Union Gen. William H. Bradford's soldiers, white and black, finally put up their hands, most, perhaps 400 or more, were cut down."

Lieutenant Van Horn also reported that, "There never was a surrender of the fort, both officers and men declaring they never would surrender or ask for quarter."

Who would know better whether or not there was a surrender - an author with no reservations about lying or a Union officer who was an eyewitness participant writing his report only days after the fact?

Since the author apparently could not find fundamental references commonly used by real historians - the Federal Official Records and the Congressional records - we must question how such a book could possibly be considered to be "meticulously researched" unless the author "meticulously researched" only those records which supported his position.

During the War 45 Black men rode with Forrest as servants, teamsters, foragers, scouts, and even as his personal armed bodyguards.  Convinced he would die in battle, the freed them in 1863 and ALL remained with him through the War and beyond.

In 1875 Forrest gave a speech in Memphis to a Black political and social group.  His speech included the following:  "We were born on the same soil, breathe the same air, live in the same land, and why should we not be brothers and sisters . . . Although we differ in color, we should not differ in sentiment . . . I thank you for the flowers, and assure you that I am with you in heart and hand."

Hardly the words of "racist mind-set" as Andrew Ward alleged.  It is clear that the "racist mind-set" is possessed by Mr. Ward, not Forrest.  It is irresponsible to promote Mr. Ward's litany of hate without questioning his motivations or methodology.

"The first law of the historian is that he shall never dare utter an untruth.  The second is that he shall suppress nothing that is true.  Moreover, there shall be no suspicion of partiality in his writing, or of malice." - Cicero (106-43 B.C.)

We simply ask that all act upon the facts of history.  We invite your questions.


Your Obedient Servant,

Colonel Michael Kelley, CSA
Commanding, 37th Texas Cavalry (Terrell's)
Technical Advisor/Historical Consultant, "Forgotten Men"
[...]
"We are a band of brothers!
