The theories and practice recommended by Rainbow Green Live-Food Cuisine miss the mark.

Like so many, I have health challenges.  I visited the Tree of Life, a wonderful and beautiful place, and saw Dr. Cousens.  I followed his suggestions, which included the no-sweet-fruit diet (phase I of RGLC) and many expensive supplements.  I followed the diet for over a year -- strictly.

At first, I felt well.  But after a while it became obvious that the program wasn't working: I felt weak, was unfocused, and had tremendous cravings for heavy, fatty foods.  (And I have been on a high raw/all raw diet for many years, so this was not just detox.)  This program simply does not provide the energy required to function, leading to cravings for dense foods, and most of the calories consumed *by far* come from fat.  This is extremely unhealthy!  Most world health experts recommend that fewer than 10-15% of calories come from fat.  While I haven't checked the actual quantities in any of the recipes, it is clear that all or almost all of them FAR exceed those guidelines.  I gained weight and was not thriving, as a person eating a healthful raw diet should.  The diet recommended by this book is unsustainable.

Many of the recipes in this book taste good, but again, they are extremely high in fat.

As to the "science" presented here, the wrong conclusions seem to have been drawn.  Many of those whose blood was tested by Dr. Cousens may have been people who were not eating a healthful raw food diet at the time, but the quality of the subjects' diets is never shared with the reader.  Was it considered?  A typical cooked food diet is extremely acid forming in the body and creates the ideal breeding ground for candida, fungal infections, and the mycosis, as Dr. Cousens describes it.  If someone is eating this type of diet, then it's true that adding high glycemic foods of any kind may be a poor idea.

Dr. Cousens states that an acid diet, junk food, dried fruits, high glycemic foods, and low oxygen levels in the body contribute to this mycosis, or "internal composting," as he calls it.  Most of what he lists *is* unhealthy; however, some of the fruits he considers to be "high glycemic" are extremely healthful and valuable foods.

Even if Dr. Cousens' blood test subjects were eating a raw diet, as most raw food diets contain much too much fat, it is likely that all subjects, whether eating a cooked or a raw food diet, had pre-existing conditions of candida and fungal overgrowth.  Fat in the bloodstream prevents insulin from effectively transporting sugar to cells; naturally-present (in small amounts in the healthy person) candida feeds on the sugar in the blood to prevent prolonged high blood sugar levels, and it blooms.

Did Dr. Cousens consider the lifestyles of the people whose blood he tested?  It's not clear.  Also, it's true that cancer cells grow on sugar solution.  Most cells do!  But avoiding fruit is not the answer.  Getting healthy is.

We are designed to function on simple sugars such as those found in fruits, not on the high fat vegetable diet espoused in this book.  A healthful diet that is primarily fruit-based, with sufficient quantities of greens but little fat allows the body to rid itself of candida overgrowth very quickly.  It also provides enough nutrients and energy for the individual to be healthy and vibrant.  I have started to get well by living this way, and I know I am now on the right path to heal.  But it is a simple way, not one that leans toward complex recipes and dietary supplementation.

If you are interested in seeking health and a healthful eating program, please try a low fat raw vegan diet that is fruit-based but also contains substantial quantities of greens and green vegetables with limited fat, such as the one recommended by Dr. Douglas Graham.  See also "The Raw Secrets" by Frederic Patenaude.

I truly believe that Dr. Cousens is a kind man who wants to help others.  But I cannot recommend this book.

Please be cautious
