This book is a compendium of works that Harrison has written over the years on the theme, "what is it like at the end of time when even reality isn't sure what it is". OK, have you got that staight.  If you haven't or can't then you'll will be one of those people who actually see greatness in these stories.

Now don't get me wrong, the first novelette, "The Pastel City" is intriguing in a odd fellowship, fantasy, bad acid dream kind of way.  The characters and the mileau are interesting as is the story of the "War of the Two Queens" (no, one of them isn't Freddy Mercury, smartass).   

The second novellete, "A Storm of Wings", is so overblown, overwrought, overwritten with a psychedelic prose style that made me feel like I was back in a 60's disco surrounded by Grace Slick the Airplane and the White Rabbit.  Is there a point to this?

The third novellette, "In Viriconium", is a love story, I think but at this point, who knows and does anyone care.  The characters are so innocuous, that it's hard to fathom their story much less why it matters.  At this point you may notice that some characters (with different names) keep popping up in the stories.

There are then seven short stories (bless him they get shorter and shorter) that blend into the novelettes and into each other.     At some points you feel that you are reading the same story over again but realize that it's just the same characters popping up in other stories where half the time they have no purpose.  The last story is 'supposed' to tie it all together and leave a strand attached to earth.  But, well, why not, OK, I'll buy it, but I'm glad I read the library copy.

I have a question for Mr. Harrison (who from his author picture looks like Sean Connery on SNL Jeapordy), what is your facination with dwarfs?  Oh, yes and yellow comparisoned Knights and horses.
BTW, just as an aside, why is one story called "Viriconium Nights" on the outside back cover, as well as in Neil Gaiman's intro, but is called "Viriconium Knights" inside the book?  Is this more of Mr. Harrison's mystical humor?

Harrison, takes a great idea, much like Roger Zelazny's multiple worlds in "Amber" and take it way past the limit of credulity.  I feel bad that so many authors talk about his book "Light" in praising his work, because I think they are all embarrased to be mentioned with this book.  

Read this book if you want to see how someone can put it over on the literary community.  The line between 'great' and 'grate' is stretched taunt by Mr. Harrison
