Douglas Coupland has a reputation for being able to capture "a generation" as he did in "Generation X". In this book we follow a group of five programmers working at Microsoft who decide to start their own company producing a virtual Lego set named Object Oriented Programming (OOP!). The book is written as a blog by one Daniel Underwood as he struggles to "get a life" in the soulless environment of Silicon Valley.
    Written in 1995 the book is full of terms which at the time probably seemed very new and exciting - internet, email, information superhighway et al. Indeed it seems to be part of Coupland's intention to bombard us with "techie" terms. Unfortunately time marches on and these days it's hard to create an impact using such words as they are now so commonplace. This is a shame, because the plot of the book doesn't really grip you. Instead, Daniel indulges in endless name-dropping and descriptions of consumer goods. In addition, everyone now knows what happened to most of the internet startups: they borrowed hugely and folded. In this day and age we can only look back and note that while Oop! never made it, the mighty Microsoft is still with us.
   Daniel's difficulties are the stereotypes of the mid-twenties: am I in the right job? why can't I get a girlfriend? where is all this going? how do I get a life?
   Again seen from a perspective of ten years down the line, it's hard to sympathise with him. In 1995 Bush's War on Terror was still on the drawing boards of the Neo-Con World Takeover Committee. Osama bin Laden was a trusted friend of the CIA. Daniel lives in a world free of any considerations beyond which corporate brand is "hippest". His only worry is whether a fellow geek (female, with standard issue high IQ and Star Trek obsession) will have a relationship with him.
  Other characters have relationships with "entities" they have met only virtually. At the time this was probably a "shock" plot device but these days it sounds pretty commonplace; I'm sure most people reading this have friends they have never actually met.
  You keep waiting for something to happen, but it doesn't. Coupland pads out the thin narrative with what he calls "subconscious" pages: pages of random text and symbols, phrases and brand names. I'm not sure what this is meant to tell us or accomplish. Elsewhere he fills entire pages with the word "money". It would be clever if it had anything to say but as far as I can tell they are just random words - meaningless symbols filling up valuable page space.
   I can't see the appeal of this book. Nothing "exciting" happens in it. It's just an endless list of consumer products and things that seemed cool at the time. Daniel's vision of the world is tightly constricted by the monotony of the coding grind and neither he nor the book has any real insights to offer us beyond a large number of slogans.
   It's like reading Fight Club, if the narrator never met Tyler and never started Fight Club, and just stayed in his job. Endless corporate drudgery and boredom. 
    Don't believe the hype
