The Murder Book is one in a long series featuring Alex Delaware, and only the second I've read, and most likely the last.  Kellerman does a good job characterizing Alex and gay friend Milo, but the plot is so full of contrivances and holes that it made this book very dissapointing.

The book opens with Alex receiving a book with pictures of crime scenes in it dating 20 to 40 years old.  Alex calls Milo over to look at it and Milo instantly recognizes one of the pictures in there.  It is of Janie Ingalls, a case he never solved.  Milo then recalls the case and the investigation with his partner Schwinn in flashback style.  Milo and Schwinn are pulled off the case just as they gather some clues and Milo has been bothered by it ever since.

Schwinn has a source who says the Ingalls girl may have been at a party thrown by a bunch of rich kids.  In the present day, Milo and Alex begin investingating the rich kids the Cossacks and their friends Michael Larner and Vance Coury.  It seems like for 200 pages they investigate the rich kids befor the dead Ingalls girl is mentioned again.

The link between the murder of the Ingalls girl and then the long drawn out investigation of the Cossacks and Larners and everything that stems from that is tenious at best.  The book kind of glances over this part at the beginning, indicating Schwinn had a source who said there was a wild party at a house owned by the Cossacks.  Alex and Milo believe Ingalls and her friend may have attended the party but have no proof or real reason to believe this.  My problem is that every step that Alex and Milo take in their investigation is circumstancial, not confirmed by any hard facts.

Milo and Alex do a lot of investigating, but none of their suspicions are ever confirmed by hard evidence.  The trail of crime from the Cossacks is so drawn out its hard to remember at times what the original investigation was.  Also, there is never really any contact with the bad guys at all in the book.  Then, the book ends with the horrible method of long explanation.  Milo talks with a man who basically explains everything to him about what really happened.  Milo knew some of it through his tedious investigations, but the rest is confirmed in the end.

I haven't read much of this series, so I don't know much about the Bert Harrison character.  But it seems to be far fetched that a fatherly figure to Alex could be the psychiatrist to so many main characters in this book.  It seems like a cheap plot device to hand Alex the answers he is looking for.

In the end I was very disappointed because Kellerman is obviously a good writer.  I just don't know what he was thinking when he threw this plot together.
