Some say the arguments against Afrocentrism formally opened with the publication of Dinesh D'Souza's Illiberal Education in 1991. Now a professor at Stanford, D'Souza was a young conservative journalist at the American Enterprise Institute, a D.C. located public-policy right-wing self-proclaimed "think-tank". No wonder D'Souza spends a chapter of the text ("In Search of Black Pharaohs: The Roots of Protest at Howard")  having the gall to seethe at the intellectual activities of Howard University, the breeding ground for Eric Williams' Capitalism and Slavery among other brilliant publications. D'Souza complains that the modern American university, in the name of diversity and multiculturalism, has stifled debate and intimidated larger society into accepting new canons. These canons are essentially race and gender-based propositions that one must accept or risk being ostracized as sexist or racist. 
Illiberal Education opens by describing the ideal university campus: a place that is "serene and opulent", with students "[moving] in small groups", Ivy Leagues "[giving] off a distinct aroma of old money and tradition."  He then launches into a criticism of campus protest, trivializing the University of Michigan race-scandals of the early 1990's, whittling the whole episode down to [...] and blacks demanding the chance to make punching bags out of inoffensive white male students. He pours sympathy on poor Robert Gallagher, a Princeton University professor who opposed Women's Studies in the 1980's. D'Souza argues that Western thought has historically been self-criticising (i.e. Marxism is a criticism of Western bourgeois culture that sprung specifically from Western bourgeois culture) and that the teaching method of the typical liberal curricula pre-Afrocentrism and gender-focused studies was disputation, not indoctrination. 
Forgetting that racism and sexism are still weighty social realities for many Americans and that all Americans are victims of both sexism and racism, Illiberal Education concludes that recent gender and ethnic studies programs are unfortunately based on unnecessary indoctrinationist principles. The book does not analyse anything written at the Howard University Press closely. D'Souza argues vehemently against affirmative action programs, multiculturalism, left-wing academia in all its packages, and `political correctness'. Excerpts from his book have appeared in stories in New Republic and Forbes Magazine. Also, more than two dozen major newspapers and magazines have reviewed Illiberal Education. In promoting his publication, Dinesh D'Souza spoke at numerous colleges and universities, followed by a 20-city media tour and appearances on such network talk and news shows as Good Morning America and Nightline. Instead of bemoaning separatist activities of Afrocentric groups, D'Souza asks, in the front flap of his book Letters To A Young Conservative, "Are you tired of the liberal agenda that dominates so many aspects of American life?" without recognising that America is largely a puritan state. His book What's So Great About America has a chapter called "Two Cheers for Colonialism" and another called "The Reparations Fallacy: What African-Americans Owe America." He idolises Ronald Reagan, the man who opposed both the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Fair Housing Act of 1970 and called the Voting Rights Act of 1965 "humiliating to the South".

Nonsense!!
