   Simply put, this novel is a lot of horse manure. As I am someone who has studied the very interesting and complex civilization of the Celts, this author shows his vast ignorance of the actual superiority of their morality compared to the spiritually bankrupt, cynical, enslaving romans. For one instance, the so-called "wild" tribes held their women in vaster esteem than romans did, for one example: no Roman woman could be a citizen, whilst ALL Celtic women were equals with their men millenia before the modern equal rights struggle. As a woman, I would much preferred to have been a free Celtic woman than a rich but patronized and enslaved Roman lady. Julius is always "grinning", smiling viciously, chuckling at the suffering he and his grasping, greedy lust for conquest caused to others who were defending their own lands! Iggulden tries to make him seem a paragon of unstoppable might, arrogant and heedless of others, who never feels fear and pain....BALONEY!! All he has managed to do is make Caeser unrealistic and totally unlikeable. Besides which, in point of FACT, he did not have such an easy time of it as is portrayed in this twisting of true events of the past, and he lied constantly to the Senate and as we well know nowadays, in his written descriptions about the Celt's culture and heritage, not to mention religion. All for what? To give to a nasty, lazy, filthy citizenry(aka the roman mob)lands to plunder that were not theirs by right?? His justifications to Adán wring as hollow as his personality in this book!
   The thing that I disliked the most was the arrogant, patronizing tone throughout; that Rome had come to "civilize", to bring "art", to bring "justice", to peoples who supposedly "lived in squalor"?? PUH-LEEEZE. Firstly, Celtic art was inherently beautiful in its own right, centuries before Rome even existed as such. Also, they worked steel in a much superior way to the Etruscans and later the Romans, a fact which is well known today! And what justice is this ridiculous Julius speaking of? The justice of selling a free people, an independant people, into slavery because most of the citizenry were too foul and indolent to actually apply themselves to trades instead of watching their bloody arena fights day and night? As for squalor, the Celts lived much simpler, that is true, but in no ways were they filthy, nor did they live in squalor, as they valued cleanliness. The cities of Rome bred many a disease born of their horribly sewage-strewn, nasty streets, never suffered by the free peoples of Northern Europe until Rome came and stole their lands.
  Yes, Julius comes off as arrogant, insulting, and vain....and wooden, as some here have noted. He variously grins, smiles or chuckles at everything from people being killed to his enemy facing him, as if he is some kind of bully, or at best, a moron.
I highly doubt the real Julius Ceaser was as hideous a charachter as this author makes him out to be. I found myself actually rooting for the Suebi king who told him where to go in no uncertain terms! 
  Small wonder the entire world hated the Romans, and small wonder the Germanic tribes crushed them in centuries to come, as they were soulless conquistadores bent on their own personal greed, just like the Caeser of this tale. Who gets his own comeuppance too.
  The first two were a bit better, but the ridiculous fabrications all over this tome and the totally unrealistic personality of the main charachter just left me wanting to hurl this book in the trash. Too many glaring inconsistencies, fabrications and outright insults to intelligence in this one!
I will not be buying the last one
