This is the second book in this series that I have read. I would consider these a type of culinary cosy type mystery with a few elements of quaint hard boiled detective, which normally I would love......... BUT I found the main character incredibly offensive. I think Fairbanks was trying to create a prim and proper heroine, but someone who stuck to her guns as well, a kind of steel magnolia. It sounds like it would be a cute combination, but consistently thrown in are degrading remarks about feminists and/or women with jobs, etc. In the first book in the series she mentioned with pride that she was not part of the counter culture revolution in the 60s. Gah!! Does Carolyn Blue (the main character) wish that the path towards racial and sexual equality didn't happen? She seems so out of touch with everything, as though something went wrong in the way how Fairbanks characterized/wrote Blue. 

In the first book, there were strange racial comments about a French chef and a New Orleans maid. In this book, the Indian cab driver and the Japanese, well, stereotypes abound. There is some Muslim bashing too- although the main character did not utter them, still, ick.

I think Fairbanks was using ethnic and racial stereotypes to add more of a locational flavor to the books, but well, for me it backfired. I don't think she was trying to be racist or sexist, but eventually all of the little "oddities" combined together into something where I was so uncomfortable I couldn't enjoy the book, which is really annoying since normally I love the type of mystery book it appeared to be. The anti-feminist comments that Carolyn makes are in some ways even ickier than the racist ones because they aren't only stereotypes, but a type of judgment. Yes, Fairbanks tries to counter Carolyn's attitude by mentioning every now and then her strong, intelligent daughter, but it can't erase what has already been written.

Also, I felt that the book had a hard time coming together at the end, but I can't bring myself to go back and re-read to see if I missed some trivial line that would help it make more sense.

In essence, Truffled Feathers kind of ruffled my feathers. Sorry! Couldn't help myself. 

The worst of the comments are really in the first few chapters of the book, which maybe that Fairbanks was only trying to set stages and solidify characters instead of being... not nice. So maybe if a reader would just skim over the first part they would have a better reading experience than me. The one star I gave this book feels too high
