I bought this book. I read this book. Then I put it back on the shelf where it has sat ever since. 
I'm a more recent convert to Anne Rice's vampire books, having only read them since Pandora came out in '98 (By the way, thanks for that one Santa!)but I have since bought all the vampire and mayfair witches books. I enjoy the witches and the vampire books in two very different ways, and if I had not realised this before, it was made clear to me by this book. Unfortunately, even those parts I enjoyed were ruined by those I didn't.
The introduction was both patronising insulting. Lestat's scene with the Pope, frankly silly, as has his very character become.
I think the main problem I had with this book was the romance between my formerly favourite gorgeous fiend and Rowan, which seemed tacked on to the story as an after thought rather than a truely pivotal plot point. The series has been going for a while, and one can't blame the authoress for losing interest in the characters after so long, but one can't help but wish Lestat's final outing had been less... well, bland. I found the typographical errors frustrating, along with the plot holes and continuity errors (which others have gone into in great depth, so I won't bother with them).
It's an okay resolution to the Witches series, but leaves the vampire series gasping and flipping around like a dying fish on the carpet.
It's hard to say more without giving away the plot, so I wont, however, I will recommend other books by Anne Rice should this one not suit your taste.

DO read: Interview with the Vampire, Pandora, Vittorio the Vampire and Tale of the Body Snatcher.

Pandora, which I read first, remains my own personal favourite.




Now to address all the idiotic controversy:

1) Play the ball, not the man.
When you write a review, keep your opinions of authors names to yourself. No-one cares. Nor do they care about your opinions of their private lives or habits.

2) Saying an author writes only for his or herself is not only a hideous cliche, but is undervaluing the work that goes into writing a successful book. If people are parting with their hard earned wodges of folding stuff  to purchase copies, and you are supplying copies, you are no longer writing only for yourself. If you are writing for yourself, it would be scribbled in private diaries.

3) On a public fourm, anyone can express their views, positive or negative. Variety of opinion is a sign of a healthy readership.
Deal with it.

4) Don't feed the trolls. 
When an author posts a rant, even if you feel it is justified, remember: Trolls who are posting merely for the attention take any response to them as a win and are thrilled. People giving honest reviews and critiques will find the vilification and insults defensive and immature. People who are devoted and loyal readers probably wont read any reviews.
And those who make up the majority of the worlds readers, who have no particular affinity for any one author will take away a negative view of all those concerned. If you must reply to reviews (even the very off-topic ones) for goodness sake provide an calm and reasoned explanation do not denigrate, patronise or attack those with differing opinions. 
This goes for reviewers as well
