Until reading this book, I loved just about everything written by Mr Clancy, although I've mostly read his older books. He has always been known for complex, realistic plots and impressive descriptions of military hardware and modern warfare.

He forgot to include any of that in this book, however. While the premise (a war between China and Russia) is very interesting, "The Bear and the Dragon" doesn't deliver.

The first problem is that it takes an extremely long time to get going. The actual attack doesn't start until 900 pages into the book, and there's really no justification for that much buildup. It doesn't really help that much of those 900 pages consist of Clancy giving his opinion about just about everything from communism, to abortion, to tax rates. While he does make a couple of good points (mind you, just a couple), for the most part it's irrelevant and awfully short-sighted: Mr Clancy spends an awful lot of time telling us just how stupid and barbaric the Chinese (leaders) are, while shamelessly glorifying the American Way (read, "Republican Way") at every turn. It's almost disturbing to see how much the writer is convinced of the moral superiority of his convictions.

The part of the 900 pages that aren't filled with political tirade fare a bit better, but there's still a lot of filler and repetition in them, including a murder investigation that ultimately adds next to nothing to the real story. Which is a shame, because there really is a fairly decent story (once you get over the fact that in this book, the bad guys are incredibly stupid) hidden somewhere in all these pages.

Anyway, I kept reading this "bear" of a book, hoping that it would get better once the action started. It really didn't. The Chines attack, and overrun the Russian defenses, but after that they're so utterly and totally slaughtered by the USA that it's hard to take seriously: American and Russian jets kill Chinese planes by the dozens while suffering marginal casualties themselves, hundreds of tanks are taken out in mere minutes, and the Chinese field commander conveniently and inexplicably gets himself shot by a sniper. Right. 

"The Bear and the Dragon" is 900 pages of communist/China-bashing, flag-waving neo-conservative ranting, followed by 200 pages of more flag-waving and China-bashing thinly disguised as a number of battle sequences. It's not completely without its moments (hence the 2 stars) but it's definitely not recommended    


