Having read and seen more than my fair share of Holocaust-related books and films, I was hoping for some provocative, or at least thought-provoking, analysis here. Instead, I was treated to a superficial and incomplete overview. From start to finish, Cole's contention is that in literary and cinematographic works the Holocaust has been packaged to supply consumers with a "happy ending", and that in endeavours such as museums the full horror is deliberately (although the reader is left in some doubt as to how consciously) blanked out or softened. 

In fact, many survivors have pointed out that the full horror can never be known, as even their own experience could only be partial. Another fact is that all the first-hand accounts, however gruesome, have been given by survivors, which does tend to leave an impression of the Holocaust as something which could be (and in fact was) survived, if only by a minority. It is a pity that Cole did not take a closer look at the abundant literature describing the damage wreaked on survivors and their families, for instance Art Spiegelman's depiction of his parents, Lily Brett's of her mother, or Charlotte Delbo's wrenching account of the individual lives of her fellow deportees before, during and after their imprisonment in Auschwitz.

There are also occurrences of sloppy thinking. For instance, Cole has accomplished the tour de force of simultaneously criticising the early presentation of Anne Frank for "stripping her of her sexuality" and drawing a veil over her appalling death. Actually, that early presentation was almost exclusively based on the first published version of the Diary, which made no secret of Anne's romance with Peter (sexual enough to cause her parents serious concern), and surely it is not common for diarists to record their own demise, least of all in a death camp?

Finally, there are a number of careless errors not acceptable in a scholarly work. The recurrent misspelling of "Birkeneau" is especially irritating in view of Cole's credentials, "the girl in the red coat" of "Schindler's List", whom Cole dismisses as a "myth" incorporated by Spielberg into his film, does in fact appear in Keneally's book under the name "Red Genia", and the Jews in the "Train of Life" do not escape to freedom - the last scene shows the narrator in prisoner's garb, possibly German, possibly Soviet, behind barbed wire, leaving it unclear whether the train story was a fantasy or whether the Gulag ultimately caught up with the escaped Jews.

In a word, disappointing
