Now that fine arts photography seems to be permanently entrenched in a rut, it seems as though the only way for photographers to get noticed is to become celebrity photographers. It is quite an easy formula: To become a celebrity photographer, one must immerse themselves in the mindless world of celebrities, and, thus through hyperbole and self-insertion into this world of celebrity, one becomes a celebrity him- or her- self. David LaChapelle is no exception to this sappy, self-serving, trend which began the moment Annie Leibovitz ran out of ideas. 
 
 It is no coincidence that LaChapelle is so often compared to Herb Ritts. Both of them produce technically strong work that, alas, has no soul. Both their work screams the triumph of style (and such schlocky, narcissistic and ultimately vapid style at that) over substance.
 
 Ultimately, LaChapelle is an empty suit, now that the game in fine arts photography is not about achieving a unique vision -- wrought by years of mastering the craft of photography -- but in being seen as clever and trendy. The whole post-modern fraud -- in which LaChapelle is a routineer fellow traveller, posing as some sort of master of photography -- is predicated on the aesthetic equivalent of a hispter's sneer.
 
 Strangely, though, LaChapelle's work is neither clever, nor hip. If you want clever, check out Weegee. For real hip photos daddy-o, peruse Phil Stern's pix of the Rat Pack. If you need to ride Madonna's coattails to notoriety, then hip is way over your head.
 
 In Hotel LaChapelle, we are left bereft of inspiration and style. Certainly, the overly self-aware artiste gives a passable imitation of same, rather much as saccharine compares to honey. Strip this book of the glitz and the glam and we are left with a young photographer who has quite a store of technical know-how without the foggiest idea as to how he can put it to honest use.
 
 To those comparing the ostentatious affectations of this posuer who fancies himself a photographer to Man Ray or Andy Warhol, pulllllleeeaase! Albeit, Warhol was oftentimes just as pretentious; however, Warhol did have some pretty striking ideas, and some of his graphic (re)creations were brimming over with the stark sensibilities of Roy Lichtenstein or Paul Rand. As for Man Ray, LaChapelle is way out of his league. Man Ray belongs up there with Magritte, Dali and Luis Bunuel; LaChapelle fits in a little better with other trendoids such as the photography staff of Us Magazine.
 
 I find LaChapelle's work more akin to another hanger-oner of the celebrity scene, Yoko Ono. That's my story and I am sticking to it
