I gave Megan's Mark 5 stars. It was no doubt one of Ms. Leigh's best Breed books yet.  Simply fantastic.  Harmony's Way, however, is simply... bad. Yes, go ahead and vote my review "unhelpful", you know you want to.  But think about it for just a moment first - according to Ms. Leigh, Harmony, a lion breed, is the "best assassin" ever produced by the Genetics Counsel - she is cold, ruthless, the Very Best at Killing, and she cannot be caught. Her nickname is "Death". She takes orders from no one, and when she escaped from the Labs as a young teen, she killed ALL of the scientists and took incredibly important information with her and hid it successfully for ten years. She's never let anyone tell her what to do, she does not take orders from anyone. WOW - my kind of gal!!! She kicks butt, woohoo!

Despite this incredible reputation, she's very easily caught by her own brother - and very, very readily accepts his ultimatum to go work in a small town as a sheriff's deputy because otherwise she'll be sentenced to "death".  Hello?  You're telling me Death is afraid of death? 

Furthermore, as the book progresses, we learn she has smaller canines than the other lion breeds, doesn't have as good a sense of smell, and a number of other problems that mean she's simply not as animal as the other breeds. HUH? She was the "Best of Breed" category at the beginning of the book, but suddenly that changes?  

Plus, she meets her human mate and suddenly she has no backbone, commonsense or even a breed's normal ability to kick butt?  No, I'm sorry, but there's no consistency between the description of Harmony early on and how she actually acts in this book.  Sure, I know the point is for her to let go of the "assassin within" and become yet another satisfied, mated brood mare for the Breeds, but COME ON - no one changes THAT much in the span of a few days!  We read that she was a killer, but we sure as heck never witness it. Submission to her mate doesn't mean she has to loose her toughness.  I couldn't get past the inconsistencies in Harmony's character.  I will certainly buy future breed books, but this was my LEAST favorite. Not recommended
