A violinist had prepared for his recital for many months. The day arrived and the concert hall was packed. At the end of the recital the audience rose to their feet and offered a lengthy ovation. Backstage a friend of the musician noticed his somber mood. He asked "why so down, didn't you hear and see? They loved you. You were wonderful". The violinist replied, "Yes, but there was one man who stayed in his seat and did not applaud". "You are sad because one man out of hundreds did not appreciate your efforts?" questioned the friend. "Yes" he said "for you see, that man is my violin teacher". 
Just because something is "successful" in the eyes of man does not necessarily mean it is approved by God. 
Rob Bell seems to be a gifted man. His NOOMA videos are brilliant and very effective. His methods and teaching style are edgy and scratching an itch with this generation. 
Like a few of the others who have shared reviews of this book, I too found myself unclear as to what he really believes. Bell's call for "honesty" and "openess" about our faith, and the freedom to question -are ideas I can support. I found myself agreeing and "amen"ing several points he makes where the "church" is clearly missing her mission. But where he calls for a repainting of our faith - I see the problem with the application, not the principles. I happen to believe that the Bible teaches absolutes/truth. Bell seems to think that "If it works then it's true" while I would contend "It's true, therefore it works".
He is critical and fairly antagonistic of people/churches that have to have "absolutes" for their faith ("brickianity") to work. Bell then disguises his "bricks" (beliefs) as; a trampoline (which, by the way, like "inviting Jesus into your heart" or the word "trinity" is not found in the Bible), "binding and loosing", or the "way of Jesus". He expounds on his "beliefs" with statements like (in reference to Jesus addressing his followers) "What he is doing here is significant. He is giving his followers the authority to make new interpretations of the Bible" (pg 50). In response to a church leader who chooses to "takes the Bible for what it really says" Bell writes "this view of the Bible is warped and toxic" (pg 53). Sounds pretty absolute/"brickish" to me. 
Bell gives lip-service to churches that don't ascribe to his teachings, by saying "there's nothing wrong with them" and he "thanks God for them" (pg 14). He then proceeds to blast their practices and beliefs in various places throughout the rest of the book. Likening the way they do things to an outdated poster that should be rolled up in the basement somewhere. 
Here in "brickland" I'm all for selling out to Jesus. Being salt and light to a lost and dying world. Asking hard questions, being real and coming up with fresh ways to present God's ageless truths. I am not so arrogant, however, as to think I have a right to paint over God's masterpiece. 
I read in one of the very thoughtful, positive reviews that those of us who have a problem with Velvet Elvis are missing the authors intent. That Bell is somehow being purposefully provocative to elicit dialogue. If I thought this book would ONLY result in people having great discussions about our faith (without misleading), I could endorse it. But I fear, as I have read a number of the reviews in favor of it and spoken to several young believers who have bought into it, that many will be drawn to it's "nowness" and add fuel to "their" doubts about the integrity of the scriptures. 

I guess time will tell if the Great "Rabbi" will be standing and applauding Bell's efforts. 
In the meantime I choose to build my faith on solid ground (bricks) not on a trampoline
