Potential readers of this book have a right to know that this book was not authored by Julian Lincoln Simon, as the title indicates.  Rather, the book was authorized, or commissioned, by the late Professor Simon shortly before his lamentable death.  Although Professor Simon did agree to collaborate with Mr. Moore on a book, and fully intended to write a book along these lines, and prepared some material for a possible use in a manuscript (and we have no way of knowing if any of this material was indeed used, and in what form), the final text is most likely not what Mr. Simon had in mind.  After receiving permission from the Simon estate to go ahead with the project, Mr. Moore freely chose to engage in a comical sort of economic, environmental and social axe-grinding, as opposed to a balanced, well-reasoned exposition on some of the more remarkable trends in human history.  A comparison of this text to any other book written by Dr. Simon while he was alive would demonstrate a difference as clear as night and day.

Now, let me be clear on what this book really is.  The book's introduction, written by Mrs. Simon, contains the greatest amount of useful and objective information in the book, and it is where the truth about the contents of the book are told.  As for the rest of the book, the motivation for and the assummptions underlying the text are explicitly stated and are as follows: big (and thus bad) government is bad and unnecessary, America's founding fathers are right about everything and are Great Thinkers, (high) taxes should be lowered (even if they are already low by comparison), all government regulation interferes unnecessarily with free enterprise, and freedom and democracy are things that everyone can take for granted.  Therefore, in the service of these assumptions and motivations, the book suffers from a glaringly selective presentation of the 'facts'.   

The text has many problems from the standpoints of content, presentation and point of view, and these problems are too numerous to fully explore here.  Although Mr. Moore talks much about exploring the improvement of humanity's lot, virtually every single example of 'improvement' or 'progress' is from the American context, and from this, Mr. Moore would like us to believe that, via extrapolation, the improvements seen in America have also occurred, at about the same level, everywhere else in the world.  This alone reveals a level of myopia and intellectual naivete that quite frankly is very unhealthy and dangerous.  Mr. Moore would like us to believe that everyone lives like Americans do (or at least yearns to), even when overwhelming evidence shows this clearly not to be the case.

The text also employs some very bad intellectual sleights of hand, making the information in the text fall below that of even the minimum academic ethical standard.  For example, in each of his 100 trends, operational definitions are not clearly and specifically established, and in some rather disturbing cases, only the data which will establish a clear upward or downward trend is presented, but the full range of data somehow do not find its way into the graph.  Undergraduate-level mistakes in statistical analysis, such as presenting data in terms of number of incidences as opposed to rates (per capita) of incidences, comparing one snapshot under one condition in time to another snapshot under completely different conditions, and most important, the failure to adequately disclose underlying causes of phenomena before jumping to conclusions, abound in the text.  Finally, if one merely played with the definitions, or simply played with the calculations for the statistics cited, as Mr. Moore has done, one could make the very same conclusions that Mr. Moore makes.

In particular, one blurb on Page 2 of the book brings home the misguided message and deeply malicious intellectual trickery of the book.  Here, the author notes that according to an article in the Associated Press, which noted that one of the hottest selling grocery items in the year 2000 was gourmet pet food, and that one of the most challenging nutritional problems in America is obesity- not in people but in pets.  The author uses this to demonstrate how affluent we Americans have become, and as a proxy, albeit a comical one, of (American) socio-economic improvement.  Yet it also hammers home two disturbing and depressing points- a greater concern, matched with an extensive outlay, for pet health in America (even as one in three Americans go without adequate health coverage), and the truly depressing fact that pets in America receive better health care as a group than most human inhabitants of the planet- especially those of the third world.  Examples like this do not adequately show 'progress' or 'improvement', and the author uses these and other equally egregious socio-economic snapshots and trends to pooh-pooh the notion that the situation in the world is very bad.  Perversely, they demonstrate how grossly out of touch the author and many Americans have become with the state of most non-American humanity.

I believe the real title of this book should be: It's Getting Better FOR AMERICANS All The Time, as the biased examples of this book clearly demonstrate.  Furthermore, as long as no one asks thorny questions such as: Which Americans? or Is it getting better for Americans on an equal basis? or It Is Getting For Americans, But At Whose Expense?, I expect the author to encounter few if any problems.  For those readers having little or no background in basic statistics and no prior knowledge of the various topics in the book, I recommend that they read Damned Lies and Statistics by Joel Best for both clarification and enlightenment.  Otherwise, given Mr. Moore's clear intention to distort issues, I fear that many gullible but inquisitive readers will be harmfully misled.   

In sum, this book will appeal to those who would greatly prefer to have others do their thinking for them, and who need reassurance of their belief that everything is just fine in their little corner of the world.  Given that we live in what one man called a Global Village, and given the inter-connectedness of political, social and economic activity in the modern Global Village, that a book like this of such dubious intellectual merit can be taken literally and seriously by many Americans truly boggles the mind.

God Help America.   
