I have just finished reading Styron's book Darkness Visible and I have to say that I was quite under whelmed. The reader is left with little insight into Styron's battle with severe depression. Maybe this is just me, but I find that writers seem capable of expressing their feelings of despair and suicide in only in the loftiest of literary terms. Their writing screams, "I'm famous, well respected and admired, therefore I cannot express myself the way that an ordinary person would. That would be too plebeian." That and the frequent name dropping made me feel alienated from the author. For this reason the reader gets no clear understanding of the nature of his depression. We get glimpses but don't feel privy to his deepest thoughts. In fact, I cannot fathom why he even wrote the book. It certainly doesn't speak to the common people - especially those of us who have spend our lives trying to get the mental health system to advocate for us. Many of us are treated more like criminals than someone with a disease that needs adequate treatment - something that is not going to be found in the state mental health institutions in which the ordinary person is held.

Styron's recovery is almost an afterthought. After spending weeks in a psychiatric hospital (I would guess McLean), he is cured. How is he cured - time. Give the illness enough time and the patient will get better. Actually, in my own experience as someone with severe depression with multiple suicide attempts, the passage of time does place a barrier between my suicidal thoughts and my recovery. But time alone does not cure - it postpones. On page 75 (soft cover) Styron states, "Save for the awfulness of certain memories, acute depression inflicts few permanent wounds." Well, bully for him. But I think that he would find most depressives in disagreement with this statement. At least for myself, my depression has left deep wounds for the past 30 years or so.

Apparently, this was Styron's only episode of depression and thoughts of suicide (unless he has relapsed since this book was published). He attributes the causes of his depression to the loss of his mother, his father's illness, abstaining from alcohol (alcohol and mental illness are not a good mix and only worsen a person's symptoms), and turning 60. It's great that he can pinpoint so precisely the origins of his illness. For many people depressed and suicidal we just can't point to the causes of our illness. As research on the brain advances, we know that chemical imbalances in the brain have a lot to do with many mental illnesses. But ask someone who attempts suicide why they wanted to hurt themselves and many times your answer will be, "I don't know - I just don't know."

On page 76 he states, "Most people in the grip of depression at its ghastliest ..... may require on the part of friends, lovers, family, admirers [!], an almost religious devotion to persuade the sufferers of life's worth, which is so often in conflict with a sense of their own worthlessness, but such a devotion has prevented countless suicides." In my experience and that of others, family and friends have no clue as to how to help a person in so much pain. They want to help and be supportive but they don't know how. And who can expect them to? Yes, having support is gratifying but in the end not as helpful as one would hope. For myself, "such devotion" has never stopped me from hurting myself or attempting suicide. When the despair is so great and the spiral down into the abyss is impossible to climb out of, thoughts of family, friends, loved ones are completely absent from my mind. They're gone - insignificant. The only hope is that someone or something can grab my hand and pull me out of that bottomless hole.

Also lacking insight is Styron's statement on 77. He writes about a camaraderie with a celebrated [what else would we expect from Mr. Styron's coterie of friends and admirers] newspaper columnist and good friend who was manic depressive. Because of the commonality of their illnesses, they have "engender[ed] lasting fellowship." So hey, one of the perks of those feelings of hopelessness, helplessness, despair, anguish and pain is that you might be lucky enough to find yourself a good friend.

This is the first time that I have read an account of a man's experience with mental illness. It is not my intention to sound sexist, but my experience in reading women authors writing about their battles with mental illness is that they are much more candid and forthright. I suppose that Styron's stilted and abbreviated account of his recovery from depression could just be the difference in which the opposite genders express their innermost thoughts.
