The idea of someone going from one town to another with the soul purpose of exploring individual faith is an intriguing one. However, Tom Levinson, though his hearts in the right place, writes a book that's only half of what it should be.

When I first heard of this book I half expected it to be a sort of biblical "On the Road", a journey of faith or in search of faith. Instead we get Tom Levinson,  a Theology student who is basiclly tying up his academic loose ends. He travels across the country talking to Jews, Wicca's, Sikhs, etc. This is all fine but unfortunately Levinson has the prose of a graduate student. I didn't expect him to be Keroack, but I did expect something richer, something more fulfilling. Levinson respects all his interviews but there is little insight. He creates a business card which reads "Project Director of "God Is: An Oral History of Faith in America". Cute, but it comes across awkward and maybe even a little silly.

I read this book almost a year ago and sadly all I could originally remember were two passages, one in which the ever polite Levinson is surprised by the arrogance of an evangelical Christian minister. That was the best surprise of the book for me and frankly this book needed more of them.

For better books on road trips I'd recommend:
"On the Road" by Jack Kerouac
"A Walk Across America" by Peter Jenkins
or "The Kindness of Strangers" by Mike McIntyre

For books based on religious investigation I'd recommend:
"Salvation on Sand Mountain: Snake Handling and Redemption in Southern Appalachia" by Dennis Covington
"Under the Banner of Heaven : A Story of Violent Faith" by Jon Krakauer
"The Tao of Pooh" by Benjamin Hoff
or "Nine Parts of Desire : The Hidden World of Islamic Women" by Geraldine Brooks

For media based on religious experience, I'd recommend:
The movie "Saved", now on DVD
Or go to the website based on the radio show This American Life and listen to shows
"Leaving the Fold" and "My Experimental Phase"

Granted my recommendations tend to be, for the most part, darker, but established religions are all combinations of dark and light. Levinson gives us neither, just a friendly informative, almost text book like approach to the diversity of religion in America.

(2 and a half stars)
