Steven Milloy is the self proclaimed "director" of The Advancement for Sound Science Coalition also known as TASSC. This coalition is a think tank for corporate interests. The objective of the TASSC is to debunk modern scientific research that concludes corporate pollution has serious consequences on he environment.

So Steven's objective is to discredit any scientific findings that come to the conclusion that corporate America's pollution has now and will continue to have global effects on the environment. So he criticizes the results of real scientists that are doing objective research and labels them as radical liberals. He calls their science "junk science" .

The only slip in reasoning here is that the scientists that conclude big business pollution is destructive to the environment and our health weren't paid by billion dollar Industries to come to these conclusions.

Steven Milloy and TASSC are funded gratuitously by corporate America to debunk global warming and any other scientific findings that run counter to corporate America's interests.

Originally TASSC was funded by Philip Morris with the goal of debunking the scientific conlusion that second hand smoke is hazardous to your health. Would you believe that? If I was paid a million dollars by Phillip Morris to say second hand smoke is not dangerous to your health would you believe me? I really hope not. But that is just what Steven Milloy does. He gets paid enormously by corporate America to say that environmental scientists (who weren't paid off to come to specific conclusions) are the one's producing the junk science. His original funding came from Phillip Morris but TASSC is funded by the following corporations: 3M, Amoco, Chevron, Dow Chemical, Exxon, General Motors, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Lorillard Tobacco, Louisiana Chemical Association, National Pest Control Association, Occidental Petroleum, Philip Morris Companies, Procter & Gamble, Santa Fe Pacific Gold, and W.R. Grace, the asbestos and pesticide manufacturers.

If you think I'm making this all up do a Google search on "Steven J. Milloy Spin doctoring" or "Steven J. Milloy Phillip Morris" and see all of the legitimate resources that expose his true ulterior motives. That is, if you actually do care about the truth more than you care about not being labeled as a liberal radical.

The name calling is how these billion dollar corporations enforce compliance by labeling dissenters as deviants. If you care about the environment you are a bleeding heart liberal, if you don't support the United States occupation and Halliburton's profiteering in Iraq you are unpatriotic and sometimes even considered a terrorist. These God and Jesus spewing billionaires define right and wrong and what is moral according to their own interests. They will pay pseudo scientists like Steven J. Milloy enormous sums of money to make it appear that there is scientific evidence to support their agenda. 

