I am a professional reader on sales & marketing material and have read atleast over 50 books and hundered articles on same topics. Frankly this is the WORST book ever read and totally confuse how such a ...... book can even get published!!!! 
The whole book is full of jargons that author invented in order to make his wrtings professional but totally opposite is true. 
Imagine you are a consultant who is invited to give a talk about closing the gap between sales and marketing process and your presentation material contineously describe:

Core Intellectual Assets
Integrated/syncronized  marketing & sales Ecosystem
Sanctioned content
Message Mangament Process
Value-Centric Communications Model
Buyer-Centric Revenue Acceleration Model
Content Optimization Framework 
.......
and you end up by suggesting by using these processes you get ride of black hole which exist between marketing and sales function in your organisation. Believe it or not if I am among the participants my first feedback and concern is how to free the author from the black hole first !!!

List of big words and acronym just goes on and on ... without any practical example just contineous bragging words of author that he discovered, uncovered and developed....... 

The last funny point is he -among others who have nothing to offer and desparate to get consultancy job with some poor company-claim and link  every theoretical nonsense to company stratigical issue and highly recommend that that his model only works if it is implemented as part of long term stratigical process of company ; means he has to stay long time with company $$$$$   

I really hope that publishers in future pay more attention to content of book and atleast review it with some professional and do not get trapped by acronymes and big words that authors try to make their writings professional. 
I also hope that the reviewers also be more professional in writing their comments about the book since their credibility and professionalism is at stake ; they are in my black list already and do not buy any books which is even ranked 3 stars by them, I might try a book which is ranked one star by them and tell you more about it!!! 
