Although this book didn't really live up to expectations, I will at least say it provided an entertaining read.  If you're already familiar with contemporary sci-fi you won't find too many new ideas here.  A lot of the ground in this book has already been covered in works like "The Diamond Age" (Neal Stephenson - nanotech opus), "Neuromancer" (William Gibson - disembodied ID shifting), "Ender's Game" (Orson Scott Card - automated education) or "The Transmigration of Timothy Archer" (Phillip K. Dick - tricked out humans).  Of course the main difference here is that Mr. Kurzweil is not a sci-fi author but a proven inventor and entrepeneur.  He acknowledges the 'speculative non-fiction' aspects of the book but at times gets carried away with his predictions and occasionally sounds like a hokey traveling salesman.

Throughout the book he claims some degree of expertise in such broad ranging interests as nanotechnology, neurology, interactive entertainment, visual arts, biology, anthropology, philosophy, ethics and sexuality.  Granted the material draws on many of these disciplines but his arguments often come to conclusions that simply have no scientific basis.  This book, published in 1999 suggested that our brains will be "scanned" in the near future.  The concept sounds very Ghost-In-The-Shell and has about as much plausibility as a typical Japanese animation.  An article appearing in the October 2004 issue of Discover asked the question, "Will anyone ever decode the human brain"? The author, much less optimistic than Kurweil noted that "No conceivable technology will be subtle enough to discern all the memories, emotions, and meanings aroused in us by our perceptions."  He made this assumption based on the fleeting nature of the actual neurons in your brain that change and evolve rapidly every day.  To equate this mush with bits and bytes, jpegs and mp3's, is a little naive and ridiculously optimistic.  Hopefully it will happen someday, maybe even in our lifetime.  Until then though, you'd be better off reading real fiction...

This book's (almost) saving grace is Kurzweil himself.  He's obviously having fun writing this book and presumably hopes to raise some eyebrows.  Even when that comes off as legacy-building ("Remember - you read that here first!") it's oddly charming.  Inserting himself into a dialogue with his fictitious creation "Molly" is at first obnoxious, condescending even, but by the end it's actually pretty amusing.  

That said, if you're holding out for some deep insight as to what a "spiritual machine" might be, I'll save you the trouble by telling you that the author's angle (in the two pages it's mentioned) is that spirituality basically boils down to biological phenomena.  Sorry, that it.  Apparently that was good enough for Mr. Data so it's also good enough Mr. Kurzweil.  Computers will one day magically start loving - once they're smart enough of course.  In the mean time, we can gloss over the fact that subjective AI is still a non entity in our world
