"The Beast in the Jungle" is the most effective sleeping pill you are likely to find anywhere. I challenge any reader to go through this text in one sitting and not falling asleep or, at least, not to experiment a tremendous mind-numbing feeling. Of course, I haven't read all the books in the world, but I dare say that this is the most boring piece of writing ever conceived by anyone. I find it very hard to imagine something more awful than this. It's absolutely impossible, unsurpassable.

Henry James' style is so artificially conceited and pompous that you have to ask yourself if the trash he used to write wasn't a very calculated joke after all or if he's just trying to take the reader for a ride (a ride into a world of dullness and boredom, that is). The supposedly "psychological insight" of James is just a mere exercise in nothingness, the highest form of pretentiousness in its purest expression. 

In this short???-story (James wasn't very strong on things like "precision" and "conciseness"), the terrible fate that seems to be in store for the main character after pages and pages of monotonous text, turns out to be that "nothing is to happen to him". Pathetic and childish. In my opinion, "The Beast in the Jungle" is the greatest proof that James was a dreadful writer (not to say "an insipid donkey").

Actually, James is so comical as to excite parody. In the old days H.G. Wells likened his prose to an hippopotamus pushing a pea and Ambrose Bierce said that James' work would benefit if someone took the pain to translate it into English. I personally agree with the two of them but, you know, many things that in the past have been judged as "ridiculous" or "stupid" are considered today, through some arbitrary process known as "reassessment of literary figures", as something pretty relevant and sophisticated. That's life, isn't it?.

"The Beast in the Jungle" is a poor story that serves James as an excuse for writing a lot and not to say anything significant. Completely worthless. In case I had to choose, I'd prefer to read a telephone directory instead.

Of course, this prime example of literary incompetence is regarded as a masterpiece by many scholars.

Well, each to his own..
