The author writes in his Introduction "In this book the reader will find, I hope, an antidote for historical amnesia (xvi)."  To do so, Nash says that his book aims at "Disinterring these long-forgotten figures from history's cemeteries (xvii)," so the reader will encounter those figures the middle and lower ranks of American society ... [that] remain anonymous (xvii-xviii)."  But as much as it is touted as a "new" and "fresh" approach to the "untold" history of the American Revolution, I can only say that this is so much hype.  

I was primed by Professor Nash's introductory claims to expect reading some new interpretation of well-known sources, or possibly some ground-breaking research into untapped primary source materials.  Instead, I quickly realized that while many of the narratives on eighteenth century America were interesting, there was little that was "new" or "innovative," except his assessment that his interpretation was somehow "radical."  In fact, I soon realized that I was familiar with most, if not all, of the people and events he described: so much for being "new."

A look at Nash's source citations will show he has actually done little or no actual "research."  Instead, he has produced an analysis of old narrative histories, many of which have been around for decades, as well as some more recently published secondary accounts.  Quotations, more often than not, are attributed to other historians, or if historical figures, are "quoted in" other secondary sources.  This is how good undergraduate research papers are constructed, but as a published work, it must be described as "analysis," and not a "contribution to the body of historical knowledge."  Furthermore, many of the older sources he quotes would otherwise be those of the sort he would criticize.  

It reads as if it is written more for other academic historians, rather than to educate a reading public starving for historical narrative.  Nash injects "political correctness" into his analysis at the expense of really understanding the era.  For example, he never describe the Six Nations of Iroquois as an "Empire," as if only Europeans can be guilty of creating such polities; although they ceded Shawnee or Mingo land claimed by right of conquest to white settlers.  In another example, he implies that the captivity of white children and their adoption into Indian societies was somewhat kindly.  The murders of the rest of the captives' family or the sense of loss experienced by those surviving the raids are thus minimized.  That some of those who refused repatriation may have suffered from an eighteenth century version of "Stockholm Syndrome" is not explored; while those who escaped or accepted repatriation and related not so pleasant experiences in their captivity narratives are ignored or marginalized.

In Chapter 5, "The Dual Revolution," Nash indicates a lack of knowledge or understanding about the military history of the American War for Independence in general, and the war on the frontier in particular.  One clue is given in his description of the Wyoming Massacre of 1778, the "grisly story of Tory and Indian brutality," of which he concludes "Modern scholarship supports none of this (255)."  Yet, even the Tory commander Major John Butler's report, available in the Sir Frederick Haldimand Papers in the Canadian Archives and British Museum, recorded that the Tory rangers and their Indian allies "took 227 scalps and only five prisoners."   

Overall, Nash's account just plainly gets a lot of it wrong!  
