This is the story of Stingo, a 22 y/o aspiring writer in NYC in 1947 who meets a pair of lovers, Sophie and Nathan, at his boarding house and is drawn into their dysfunctional relationship, falling in love with both and witnessing their self-destruction.  Nathan is a mentally deranged and drug-addicted genius.  Sophie is a haunted Polish survivor of Auschwitz.  Her story unfolds as she confides to Nathan the awful truths of her unwillingness to join the Polish resistance, her eventual capture over a small infraction and her heart-destroying choice when she arrives in the camp--she must decide which of her children will live and which will be sent immediately to the gas chamber.

While Nathan and Sophie are both fascinating, fully-realized characters with terrible obstacles, Stingo, the narrator, is about as imbecilic a person as ever an author has entrusted his narrative to.  Despite his thirty or so years of perspective on the events of '47 which he is relating, he seems to possess little or no wisdom about them, no intriguing viewpoints about his life or his friends' tragedies, and his actions and attitudes at the age of 22 are so immature and superficial as to be almost unbearable.  The novel is far too long--it could be nearly cut in half and only benefit.  The narrative style is foolishly ponderous, far over-written, especially in the first half.  And in the end while the structure of narrator/observer seems like a fine choice in the abstract, the specific narrator and his terrible lack of wisdom only interferes with the heartbreaking story of Nathan and Sophie.

In the end, the narrator never even approaches the key question in my mind:  why did Sophie so quickly choose Eva to die rather than Jan?  A lack of true understanding of what would happen to the girl?  A blind panic?  A preference for her son, the sort of harmless preference many parents may harbor that is never important because we are never asked to choose?  It is this having chosen which seems more than the other tragedies to have really destroyed Sophie, and yet it's glossed over in the narrative.  In fact, it's followed by Sophie and Stingo having an endless night of 'fu---ng' as the novel would put it.  Really?  Almost hard to believe Sophie could get it together to have peremptory sex after her drinking and her terrible revelations.  She uses sex to escape with her lover Nathan, but it's hard to imagine this all-night sexcapade Stingo relates.  Could it be that Styron only knows how to connect people through sex?  

How this could be considered one of the greatest American novels of all time is a mystery to me.  The potential is there, but only a truly talented, dedicated editor could have rescued the book from itsmany structural and linguistic failures
