Much of the book is about Horowitz's tour, and his ongoing war with "tenured radicals" -- left wing academics. But most leftists are not academics, relatively few academics are leftists and the expansion of part-timers in academy means many are not tenured. The book tends to engage in distortions of the views of some of the people who he attacks. The book is a bit repetitive as the argument doesn't seem to get beyond the 10 arguments that were published in Horowitz's advertisement used for his tour. 

Horowitz never rally addresses the data that shows vast differences between white and black in things like wealth, homeownership, unemployment rate, income levels, or likelihood of prosecution and imprisonment for the same crime. 

Horowitz points out that much of the south's economy was destroyed in the civil war, a fourth of the white male population of military age were killed, so, he says, the south paid the price for slavery. but the slaves were not directly compensated. it is a well-accepted legal principle that if some people make profits from a criminal enterprise, their profits should be confiscated to re-imburse the victims. Slavery was a criminal enterprise, so it should have followed that the land and other property derived by the planter class and southern corporations from profits from slavery should have been transferred to the freed slaves at the end of the civil war. This didn't happen. The freed slaves were able to be forced into virtual bondage again due to being destitute after the civil war. The 850,000 acres of abandoned or confiscated land held by the Freedmen's Bureau was supposed to be transferred to the freed slaves, but the administration of Andrew Johnson sold it off to capitalist investors. This was why the Radical Republicans in Congress tried to impeach Johnson. Lack of inherited assets such as land affected the fortunes of subsequent generations of slave descendants. This obligation to do what is right doesn't end just because of that failure at the end of the civil war. The current value of that land and capital would be in the hundreds of billons today. 

Horowitz argues that the various welfare and affirmative action programs of the Great Society era transferred "trillions" to African-Americans but provides no supporting data for this. In reality the great majority of beneficiaries of all welfare programs have been, and continue to be, poor white folks. 

Horowtiz tries to portray the issue as one of personal "guilt" but it is a question of the institutional obligations of the society, and of the American federal state, due to the damages of a huge criminal enterprise the country was founded on. Horowitz says that a majority of African-Americans today are "middle class." This is not true. According to polls, 71% of African-Americans describe themselves as "working class." As I said, Horowitz is unwilling to address the actual current circumstances of the African-American population. 

Horowitz asserts, correctly, that slavery in Africa existed before the transport of slaves to the Western Hemisphere, and that some Africans profited from this trade. But this ignores the fact that the argument is about the profits created in the USA for economic elites during the period of slavery and the subsequent period of depressed black incomes in the south due to things like klan violence and lack of civil rights and debt peonage. It was the profiting off of slavery and its aftermath in the USA that bears upon the obligations of the government of the USA and American society. The role of some Africans in the slave trade is not relevant to that. 

It's true that many people have immigrated to the USA since the abolition of slavery but it is an accepted principle that people who migrate here are not exempt from the country's obligations. A person who migrates here cannot get out of paying taxes to pay on the national debt by saying those debts were taken out before he or she arrived. It is true that many white people fought to liberate the slaves in the 19th century -- my own ancestors include white Christian abolitionists -- but that still doesn't address the economic issue of profiting off of slavery and off of forms of oppression that suppress the share of the product of their labor received by African-Americans. Of course, it is still a legitimate issue of how to own up to this obligation. 
