     Based both on its title and on the fact that this book is a publication of the American Folklore Society, I expected to find a collection of first-person reminiscences, perhaps embellished as all effective stories are embellished by their tellers, though retaining basic truths, painting a verbal picture of the daily lives of the men who worked as uniformed porters in the expensive sleeping cars owned by the Pullman Company.  As an identifiable group, Pullman porters were as much a fixture of American railroads as were Harvey Girls on the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe lines, and both groups were in a position to acquire limitless experiences relating to the traveling public.  The porters interacted not only with one another and with other members of train crews, notably conductors, but also with thousands of travelers.  Surely, serving in such a position engendered countless stories of intriguing human interaction as well as unpublished tales of railroad operations.

     Alas, those limitless, countless stories may indeed have been lost to history.  At least, they were lost to the author of this book.  Santino has not written a book of folklore at all but rather a treatise on the sociology of the group.  He has also stirred in copious condemnation of the Pullman Company for its racist employment practices, a heaping of hero worship for A. Philip Randolph, founder of the porters' union, and a propensity for blaming all the ills of corporate society on the aftereffects of slavery.

     For instance, the practice of tipping, which augmented the porters' actual salaries, Santino relates to the buying and selling of slaves, identifying it as a demeaning and insulting practice.  How he might explain the tipping of caucasian service workers in restaurant and tonsorial occupations, inasmuch as none of their ancestors were ever sold as slaves, remains a conundrum. He points out the rabid opposition of the Pullman Company to the formation of a porters' union, but he ignores the equally strong opposition of companies of that era to the formation of any union, even one totally caucasian in makeup.  White unionists were beaten, branded as "bolsheviks," and run out of the county without regard to their race, and his book does not relate any intimidation of black unionists that exceeded that exerted against white labor organizers.

     Santino even equates the fact that porters were expected to smile and be subserviently gracious to their customers as a holdover from slave days.  I am under the distinct impression that any professional employee--caucasian, black, oriental, whatever--in a service industry considers respectful pleasantry to customers as part of the job for which they are being paid.

     Despite the fact that this book contains all of two or three, or, if we stretch, four folklore stories in it, one of which, the blank check from the Pullman Company to A. Philip Randolph, is repeated continually, it does have some good historical information in it.  The formation of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters was indeed a noteworthy accomplishment in the story of the American labor movement.  The fact that porters were uniformly called "George" by the passengers of the day is an interesting bit of trivia about railroad culture (though whether the use of that name really smacks of slaves who often took the names of their owners, as in George Pullman, may be questionable).  That men closely associated with the porters' union played pivotal roles in both the Montgomery bus boycott following Rosa Parks' arrest and in the March on Washington that brought Martin Luther King into the public eye are facts that had previously escaped my attention.

     I did find value in Santino's discussion of the formation of the union and perhaps in its contribution to the historical record of an occupational group that was once well known in the United States and which certainly contributed to the development of its culture and economy.  Unfortunately, any folkloric history of the Pullman porter is yet to be written. Santino's book is generally worth reading if one can find it on a library shelf; whether it deserves to be purchased and given a permanent spot on the reader's bookshelf may be another matter
