I really liked her "Nickel and dimed" book, enough so that I bought this one just on the strength of it. I'm sorry to say I was disappointed.

Most of the book is not really about working in corporate America, or being laid off, or even about job-seraching. Most of the book is about *preparing* to job search - and going about it pretty badly.

More than 50% of the book relates the author's experience with a series of Carreer coaches, resume polishers, etc.  who were selected seemingly at random, and who run the gamut from out-and-out charlatans to useless incompetents with no discernible qualifications. What's more, this is typically clear immediately, but the author sticks with them for a long time - and tells us in details about it.

Another point is that she is looking for most of the book for a Director or even VP level job, while her resume has basically zero previous same-type jobs. Her resume DOES show she has the subject-matter skill (as a consultant), but these are Management/executive positions. To get one, you have to have relevant experience in running a similar but smaller team, doing a similar job in a smaller organization, or at least working in such a team and showing you deserve a promotion. So, from the start the author has made the chance of getting a job, or even an interview, very small, by seeming to be very basically not qualified, regradless of subject-matter experience. 

Another large piece of the book, and a constant theme is that job searching is mostly a matter of "networking". This is implemented mostly in the form of meeting other unemployed people, who also are either going to the same (useless) carreer coaches/resume rewriters etc. In rare instances, "networking" is taken to be brief meetings with total strangers and being able to get them to take your card, or your resume, and maybe hear your 30-second self-description (The "elevator pitch"). 
Common sense shows this is a waste of time. "networking" can get you a job opening when a person knows you enough to recommend you to an opening he knows about. But a stranger? why would he recommend you, and what will  the recommendation be like? "Here's the card of someone I have met yesterday for 5 minutes. I know nothing about her, but she says she is good. I think we should make her our next VP" - Come on. 
yes, in many corporations the best candidate is brought in by personal recommendation of an insider. This assume the "insider" knows the candidate enough to recommend them, and that the insider has enough standing in the organization for the recommendation to be an advantage. 
So - by all means networking is good - but only with people who already know you, and are in some position of influence. Meeting total strangers, espcially ones also unemployed, and even more especially ones who pay the obvious charlatans for Career/job-search advice is probabaly not going to cut it. 

I respect the author's intelligence enough to assume she knows this, or realized it after a short while - so why go on, and on, and on, doing it and describing it?

Finally, when she does get to send her resume and even talk (during job-fairs) to corporate people, the approach she describes is to figure out something the company is doing wrong (in her opinion), tell the recruiter about it, and claim she can help. For one thing, the people she is meting are HR recruiters, and usualy junior ones. They are not in a position to hire company-fixing-level people, even if they agreed the company needs fixing. They have a specific job with some job-description,and are looking to find someone who can do THAT, and preferably one with demonstratable experience in doing the same exact thing in a very similar setting very recently. Everything out of this track is noise - and rightly so. 

But more seriously, I am amazed this sounds reasonable to the author, or indeed to anyone. let's see: if I walked up to the author during some book signing tour, handed her my card ("networking, networking"), cited the review elswhere on this page that faults her writing style and told her I can help her fix that, if she just hires me, whow likely am I to get a job? 

I'd rate the book lower, but the last two chapters are good in my opinion. Worth the read - but wait for the paperback, by a used one, or go to the library.
