This is one of the very very few autobiographies written by a "movie star" from Hollywood's golden age who is gay, and who actually acknowledges the fact in print. 

This was a spectacular opportunity for Farley Granger to tell the world about what it was really like living as a gay (minimally bisexual) movie star in Hollywood in the 1940s and 1950s.  This book could have given first-person testimony on what it must have been like for other gay stars such as Tyrone Power, Cary Grant, Laurence Olivier, James Dean, Van Johnson, and Rock Hudson, who were forced to live the lie of being heterosexual in a society which absolutely loathed homosexuality, and which made it a criminal offense, a mental illness, and an abomination before God. 
 
But that is not the book Farley Granger wrote.  Farley Granger has instead written an autobiography which is extraordinarily excruciatingly superficial.  Page after page, for 244 pages, he talks about what he had for lunch, what hotel he stayed in, and what cities he found nice to visit.  Name dropping incessantly, if he met someone famous once, and even if it was only for 5 minutes, he includes it in the book. 

Almost all the Hollywood anecdotes that he tells in the book - Judy Garland's breakdown on the set of Annie Get Your Gun, Rita Hayworth's strange behavior due to Alzheimer's disease, Alfred Hitchcock being bored while shooting his movie because he already had everything preplanned  - have already been told many times in other books about Hollywood.

Farley Granger offers no insight into any of the famous people he met.  He starred in two classic Alfred Hitchcock thrillers, but has nothing at all new to say about Alfred Hitchcock.  Is it because Alfred Hitchcock is totally uninteresting, or is it because Farley Granger just wasn't interested in anyone else, or anything other than being pretty.

Farley Granger was a victim of his own delusions of self-importance.  He relishes telling stories about how he walked out on people, because he's too good/talented/important/whatever to be wasting his time on them.  He walked out on his parents.  He walked out on the head of Columbia Pictures Harry Cohn.  He walked out on Joan Crawford.  And the biggest mistake of his life - he walked out on Samuel Goldwyn.  Granger was desperate to get out of his contract with Goldwyn Studios.  Success had gone to Farley's head.  He thought he was too good for Hollywood.  He thought he was too talented. He thought he was a profound artist.  He thought he was an actor.  He thought his destiny lay in "the theatre".  But he was wrong.  His success peaked with Hitchcock's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, and his career went downhill from there.  He walked out on his own success.  He was a fool, a sucker who fell for his own inflated Hollywood press-agent created fame.  How ironic that he entitled his autobiography INCLUDE ME OUT.

Based on this book I came away with the impression that Farley Granger's life has been empty and meaningless.  What kind of human being never loves anyone - in their whole life?   Maybe that was Hitchcock's genius to cast him in the particular roles he did
