Back in 1996 I was at a CE seminar presented by Barkley, a smooth talker with lots of fancy graphics and research references, not to mention ties with pharmaceutical drug marketers.  However, most of what he presents is distorted, superficial, and contains numerous false statements about the implications of research and about the causes and treatments of ADHD symptoms.  Barkley is still "bark"ing up the same tree he was several years ago, making money by telling people what they wish to hear to absolve themselves of any responsibility in having fostered ADHD behaviors, or having to do anything more than use some fancy reward system sold by Barkley's associates or dispense some pill marketed by Barkley's benefactors. Barkley's approach has become widely adopted, thereby perpetuating the patterns of behavior labeled ADHD.  Barkley's behavioral approach discourages thinking and creativity in children, instead making them focus on rewards and discipline, making their lives more stressful.  The reward systems he recommends are also flawed from a behavioral psychology perspective, as psychologist David Stein has observed, and actually promote continued ADHD behaviors in a significant portion of children.  This system is so flawed it's no wonder that the studies show drugs suppress ADHD behaviors better than Barkley's behavior management approaches.  Unfortunately, the drugs can either aggravate ADHD symptoms over the long term or promote depression, bipolar, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms, depending upon the individual's internal reaction to the ingestion of disruptive chemicals.  Barkley ignores better behavioral and parenting approaches as well as research confirming the benefits of approaches like neurofeedback, massage, acupuncture, nutritional supplements, sensory integration therapies, progressive educational settings, and treating for adverse reactions to exposure to environmental hazards, such as heavy metals, allergens, processed food ingredients, and synthetic chemicals.  ADHD is a label for a pattern of behavior that is typical of a tendency to not filter stimuli as social settings often require, with a great many factors influencing the development of this pattern, and a great many factors having the potential to help the individual shift toward a more socially acceptable pattern of filtering stimuli, without suppressing one's ability to be creative, intuitive, or spontaneous.  Barkley's approach does nothing about underyling factors contributing to the dominant pattern of diminished filtering, and directs the person to be highly reliant on external controls and manipulations, since Barkley assumes there is some inherent biological abnormality in people labeled ADHD, ignoring the interaction between the individual's personality, genetic potentials, social environment, biochemical environment, and educational environment.  If you took a brain scan of someone with an ADHD label you could match it with patterns found in scans of anyone, depending upon what mood, activity, or state of focus they are in at the moment of the scan.  Only 24 hour monitoring of brain activity would have any relevance to assessing ADHD patterns, and even then it would only show a pattern of brain activity initiated by psychological and chemical factors, which are variable, just like behaviors are.  Barkley has no clue what the brain really is - a transceiver/transducer for information processing between the mind/spirit and the body embedded in the physical reality matrix.  Conscious and subconscious psychological factors greatly influence the pattern of activity exhibited in the brain, as do nutrition and drug ingestion.  Barkley promotes external locus of control, assuming something is inherently/genetically "wrong" in persons exhibiting ADHD patterns of behavior and attentional filtering.  More enlightened approaches help the individual develop self-mastery in balancing their body, mind, and emotions to facilitate any desired state of consciousness, recognizing that taking in great amounts of stumuli data or seeking out the most exciting or novel stimulus to focus attention on is not a defect, but a way of interacting with the environment that may need to be used less frequently in order to function in some settings.  If you want your child to be a drug dependent, order-following worker, then follow Barkley's approach.  If you want your child to be intelligent, creative, thoughtful, and self-empowered, then I suggest you look at some holistic approaches
