Once again "Dr." Churchill (he of course could never actually submit himself to the discipline and hard work necessary for a doctorate} steps forward to spew forth his usual set of lies and distortions calculated to promote his extreme and anti-American ideological agenda.  Hitler was right, and Churchill knows it:  the bigger the lie and the more often it is repeated the more believable it becomes.  In Churchill's case the lie that is implicit in his every word and contention is that America is a place of injustice, racism, and greed.  Of course, what Churchill cannot provide is a reasoned account of the human past that makes meaningful comparisons between America and other mass societies.  So if Churchill were actually a scholar and met his responsibility to place American history in context by referencing other cultures what other societies would he decide have a better humanitarian record? India, surely not, they still have unofficial untouchables there, and a hundred and fifty years ago they burnt widows alive.  Russia, not worth discussing.  China, yeah right.  The British empire?  Native American societies?  Well, almost without exception they were warrior cultures in which men killed and stole from other Indians (or as in the case of mesoamerica ripped the bleeding hearts out of living adults and children) and that practiced slavery - not the idea most of us have of a just society.

No, Ward, America is not a place of injustice, racism, and greed, though of course as in all societies those elements are present.  America is the place where popular sovereignty was  implemented for the first time in the human experience, the place that in its two hundred years of history has steadily become more democratic, inclusive, and just, the nation that created the United Nations and that torpedoed Europe's hopes of reestablishing colonialism after World War II, the country that was instrumental in defeating fascism, the country that faced down the geniunely evil Soviet Communism (60 million unnecessary dead between 1917 and 1953)while spreading Western enlightenment ideas like natural rights and women's empowerment throughout the world, and the place that two to three billion people elsewhere would dearly love to live (gallup poll in Mexico showed that 46% of its people, for instance, wish to live in the United States).  Were Indians displaced?  yes.  Did Indians die off from new and unfamiliar diseases brought to the Western Hemisphere by Europeans and Africans?  Yes, but it is a fact that all of human history is a litany of stronger cultures overwhelming and frequently destroying weaker cultures.  Indeed, human social and technological advancement has been held by some to be a function of that process.  But of course, Ward Churchill is not interested in discussing this truth, just making points.

The other side of this book is the fact that it is written by a man who has been judged by an objective panel of his peers as a thief and a liar, and who have in detail demolished the factual basis for virtually all of Churchill's assertions (go see online the report of the faculty review committee of the University of Colorado).  Inevitably there will be those so dissatisfied with their own life and reality that they will find in Churchill's work reenforcement for the righteousness of their own alienation.  For the rest of us, Churchill's chief contribution is that he illustrates just how farcical  and bizarre academia can be. It would be risible if it were not so tragic. Garbage, true, but interesting garbage that sadly speaks to our time and place
