Is  it morally right and tactically wise to publish such a book? It is possible to say that bin Laden does not need a forum, and that his messages are eagerly transmitted by his followers to one another through all modern technical means, including the 'Internet'. And that therefore the presentation of his speeches in chronological order will not give much of a lift or incentive to already committed terrorists. It is possible to argue that those who will read such a book are by and large precisely those who deplore bin Laden, and who simply wish to better understand how this particular evildoer  has deepened in his hatred of the West, and determination to kill innocents, through time. Thus it might be argued that the texts provided simply do a public service in informing us all of the exact nature of one mass- murdererer. 
He is to himself the defender of Islam, which he sees attacked by the West, and he has come to the conclusion gradually that the murder of as many Jews and Christians as it takes is justified if this will lead to the Islamic domination of Mankind. 
But then again Mr. Bin Laden is not simply  a theorist. He is the man responsible for the murder of thousands of people, including those on 9/11. Giving him another kind of forum somehow does not seem morally wise or right. And this especially as there are hundreds of thousands, no millions of young Muslims , ( and non- Muslims) walking around out there, who might take this book as 'marching orders'.
It seems to me the most important point of all is missed by the Editor of this work. Bin Laden may be the name that evokes the most horror. But in fact there are more important leaders in the War Against the West, and the War of Terror to topple Human Civilization than Bin - Laden.He is symbolically the  major leader of  Global Islamic  Strategy but  its most important one now is the President of Iran. The President of Iran is  calling for the destruction of the United States, and the Islamic Rule of the world in terms Bin Laden certainly agrees with. Bin Laden is not as Noah Feldman presents him in his otherwise excellent NY Times review of this book , a 'deviation' from the main stream of Islam today. As we see with the growing power of fundamentalist Islam throughout the world , Bin Laden speaks to the heart of a good share, perhaps a majority of the leaders and people of the Islamic world.  
As I understand it the Western world, the free world, the world led by the United States is now in a struggle for its life against a kind of totalitarian force whose aim is to destroy it. Bin Laden will not be the one to lead the legions in doing this. But his written works, his speeches, his communications, his network of Terror, his inspiration to widening circles within the Islamic world , are an important element in this war.
Again I am not so sure it was wise to give him this additional forum.
