The arguments,  reasoning and logic used in this book are so horribly bad that it scares me that the men who wrote live in the same world as me! The bottom line reasoning of this book is that God is real and perfect and that the Bible is his real and prefect word. The end all proof, the world exists, we exist, the bible exists, if God did not exist how could these things exist. And how do we know that the Bible is the real and perfect word of God, because God told the people who he had write it ,say so in it, so we would know it came from him................. Hey, I'm not kidding, here's an example, how can we know that evolution is false, in the bible Adam can speak, talk to God, and names all the animals, proving that he was not an  "ignorant half-ape", proving that man did not evolve, proving that evolution is false. TA DA!  How do we know that evolution is false, because the bible says so, how do we know whats in the bible is true, because God does not lie, how do we know that God does not lie, because the bible says so...... and round and round it goes.

For the Theist, this is just a very, very, long winded faith statement,  if you already have faith then don't waste your time and money on this. Of course if you reading this then you must feel that you are lacking in something, like a rational explanation for your faith, if you find it here then it is amazing that you had the capacity to reason that you were missing it in the first place.  

For the Atheist, this is a must have for a few reasons, 1) As an Atheist your making a choice (Vs faith), that choice should be based on all the best available information 2) If this is the best case the Theist can make then you are fully justified in your belief. 3) And as a bonus you get to remove from the table the hypocritical Theist claim that if you would only listen to what they had to say you would see the light.

Final word, if the arguments made in this book make since to you, well, then, I'm sorry to say, your stupid. How do you know your stupid, because this review says so, how do you know whats in this review is true, because the reviewer says it is, how do you know that what the reviewer says is true, because the reviewer wouldn't put it in the review if it wasn't.  TA DA!

