Democracy, for Sean Wilentz in The Rise of American Democracy, is solely a question of politics. This is, after all, an explicitly political history of the early republic and, in his discussion of how revolutionary Republicanism evolved into a popular, though imperfect, democracy, Wilentz is concerned with democracy in specifically political terms. While this gives the book an admirable focus, he somehow manages, in almost 1000 pages, to tell only part of the story. What Wilentz succeeds in doing is writing a heavy, old-fashioned book driven by an odd teleological sense of American exceptionalism.

Significantly, The Rise of American Democracy is a political history focused almost exclusively on the great political leaders of the early republic. Although Wilentz devotes some time to discussions of popular political movements like the anti-Masonic party and the Workingmen's parties of the eastern port cities, their role is as a catalyst for the emergence of party politics. The political motivations of their leaders and militants are relevant to the extent that they influenced the development of Jacksonian Democracy, but Wilentz is not particularly interested in what democracy meant to the Workie rank-and-file.

This is a particularly odd omission, given the populism of the Jacksonian ideology. Indeed, the Jackson Democrats positioned themselves as the party of the working man and the yeoman farmer, and defined their program in clear opposition to perceived revenant Federalist commercial aristocracy, particularly in regards to the Second Bank of the United States and trade policy. The economic crises of 1819 and 1837 are political issues, ushering in, respectively, an "Era of Bad Feelings" and the decline of Federalism, and a crisis in Jacksonian Democracy and the rise of the Whig opposition. What these crises meant in social terms to the working people and farmers in social and cultural terms, Wilentz doesn't say.

To be fair, that's mostly because he is interested in American democracy in political, and not economic terms, and from a national perspective. Social issues and local, class-based agitation, while significant as an influence on Jacksonian ideology and strategy, is a small part of his story. The central tension in The Rise of American Democracy has to do with balancing local and sectional interests and grievances with an emergent democratic nationalism. Consequently, the central drama in this section of the book revolves around the conflict between Andrew Jackson, and his national vision, and John C. Calhoun's evolving sectionalism.

Not surprisingly, Jackson is the towering figure in this section of Wilentz's book, and it is in his presidency that the author locates both the democratization of the American republic and the source of most of the political currents and issues that would define American politics throughout the 19th century. Indeed, Wilentz does nothing to conceal his sympathies and admiration for Jackson. He is inclined to forgive Jackson's Indian policies as being motivated, essentially, by good intentions, and he mostly ignores the fact that he was a slave owner and a defender of slavery. While dismissing earlier historians' contentions that the Jackson's policies were inconsistent and that he "trapped himself in some large contradictions," Wilentz argues that the president pursued a consistent, though not always successful program of nation-building: "In fact, Jackson, drawing on long-established beliefs, carved out a coherent and principled democratic nationalism on basic constitutional issues." (382)

For Wilentz, by the 1830s, democracy was "ascendant," and even the most aristocratic Federalists had begun to see it as a necessary evil. Universal white male suffrage was almost universal - with the notable exception of Virginia - and there was a general agreement that government was a manifestation of popular sovereignty. The sticky issue in the dispute between Calhoun and Jackson was whether that sovereignty was manifested by the state or the nation as a whole. Significantly, though Jackson successfully quashed the nullification crisis and the state interests were accommodated to national interests through measures like the Missouri Compromise, it was a tenuous modus vivendi at best.

Indeed, the politics of the early republic were very much a question of imperfectly accommodating southern sectionalism within emerging national parties. Both the Democrats and the Whigs sought to bridge sectional differences while seeking broad popular support for increasingly divergent political programs. The failure of the Jacksonian Democrats, in fact, to maintain themselves as "the party of popular sovereignty" (515) against the rise of a trans-sectional Whiggism was very much an inability to understand how complex ideas of popular sovereignty had become.

The Rise of American Democracy is very much a history of the minute details of American politics in the period, from the Eaton affair to the shifting and evolving political philosophies of Jackson, Calhoun, Daniel Webster and Henry Clay. The problem is that the book is so concerned with the details that Wilentz sometimes loses the bigger picture. For example, slavery and its expansion is a significant issue throughout the period, and Wilentz devotes a considerable about of space to abolitionist agitation and the tensions the issue produced in national politics. But though he connects the political issue of slavery to the political issue of states' rights and the fortunes of the nascent political parties, he fails to situate it as a significant social issue with deep contradictions with American democracy.

Ultimately, this is a "great" book only in the sense of its physical heft
