its really funny that christians are saying that the quraan is contradictry ( the wine story) because we all know that there are so many different bibles with so many contradictory views. let me enligthen you, ther quraan was revealed over 1400 yrs ago and yet not one word, not a single letter, or even a punctuation mark has been changed. and litteraly billions of muslims learn the quraan by heart ( the entire 30 chapters) every day, young and old, men and women, your so called fundamentalists and mordernists. 

now about the wine verses. you need to know that before the quraan was revealed arabia was steeped in "ignorance". it was a norm to bury baby girls alive!!! the quraan was revealed over a  period of 23yrs and bit by bit things were forbidden. the first wine related verse told muslims " Oh ye who believe donot go near prayer while ye are intoxicated until you know well what you say"

the second verse says "hey ask thee concerning wine (al-khamri) and gambling. Say: "In them is great sin, AND SOME PROFIT, for men; but the sin is greater than the profit.""
 ye who believe! Intoxicants (al-khamru) and gambling, (dedication of) stones, and (divination by) arrows, are AN ABOMINATION,- OF SATAN'S HANDWORK: eschew such (abomination), that ye may prosper. Satan's plan is (but) to excite enmity and hatred between you, with intoxicants (al-khamri) and gambling, and hinder you from the remembrance of Allah, and from prayer: will ye not then abstain? S. 5:90

so ofcourse you as a non muslim would be confused. contradictory?No!

you see for us muslims the quraan is our guide and the hadeeth-sayings of the Prophet Muhammed is the key to understanding the Quraan. God, in his infinate wisdom were "weening" the muslims of wine. 

we r all aware of the harms of alcohol. if u dont drink alcohol u have no chance of becoming an alcoholic! For us muslims, wine which is a luxury will be offered to us in paradise

neways about the terrororism issue. This guy is so misinformed, im starting to wander if he is for real.

Get this, Islam tottaly forbids the killing of women and children, the old, the innocent and even trees @ the time of  war! What is this man going on about i dont know.

Even suicide is islam is forbidden, so suiciding bombing is NOT ALLOWED! especially since it may be harming the innocent.
I mean even abortion is not allowed!!

Islam and women abuse? Puhleeeez! I am a muslim woman, my religion is ISLAM!Do i feel abused, misused,opprressed? NO!!!

Look, a mans responsibility in Islam is far greater than a womens. For example my share of inheritance is slightly less than a mans. Does this mean islam is unfair!It only means that a man is supposed to use his inheritance to feed and clothe the women in society who have NOTHING, like a bag lady for example. I can do whatever i want with my money, my brother cant!

A husbands responsibitly is greater than a wifes. Therefore his status is higher, a mothers responsibility is greater than a fathers therefore her status is higher. Islam believes in the equality of sexes not the identicality of the two!!!

As for a man having four wives,he has to treat them exactly the same, imagine that if you have four wives and you decide to buy a dkny handbag 4 1 wife,the other 3 need to get the same. A swimming pool for 1, yip the other 3 need one to! And hes reseon for marrying the other 3 wives should not be driven by lust.  

If islam is treated as a whole, if people read both the Quraan, and consulted the hadeeth, than i believe even the problem of poverty would be eliminated. Because in Islam we have to give, give and give.One of our fundemental principles tell us to give 2.4% of our wealth to the poor every year. Imagine if everyone who is able to so,does this! We should wish for others what we wish for ourselves

So for those of you who think Islam is the religion of terrorists you are sadly misinformed!

Books like this, are a product of religious hatred. It inflames hatred of other religions for islam, and for islam to the rest of the world. Its not my religion that is turning muslims into terrorists its the usage of this kind of propoganda against the muslims that fuels a passion that they cannot control. It blinds them from realising that being violent ( By this i include burning up embassies) is wrong, prohibited, and is not the way to move forward. 



