 I do not like the spirit in which this book is written. I enjoy reading the historical record of events, but I like to be able to formulate my own conclusions from that information. This book apparently is written by an author with an axe to grind against one of the major players, namely Robert Falcon Scott. There are so many negative digs against him all through the book that it began to lose the feel of history to me and suggestive of editorial comment with an agenda of character assassination. I just got to the point that I didn't enjoy the book because of the overwhelming negative treatment of Scott. He is made out to be such a totally flawed human being, incompetent, negative in just about every way possible. Scott may have been the bungler that the author describes that he was, but I seriously doubt every point that he made in that regard. With the historical facts presented accurately, the reader may draw those same conclusions on his own if given the opportunity, but there is little chance of that in this publication. Anyway, this could have been a very interesting and informative adventure story if it had been presented simply as a race to the South Pole by two highly competitive individuals, the historical narrative without the constant and caustic editorial comments. Those comments completely destroyed my interest along the way, as by about chapter three I realized that the character assassination would be the constant theme and little else. I sensed some jealousy of Scott on the author's part. No wonder this book caused such a negative uproar in Great Britain upon it's release. The book feels, and I believe is, more editorial than historical. I don't think it was a fair treatment. Give me a break! I'd suggest other more objective accounts of the race to the South Pole. 'The Coldest March' by Susan Solomon is much more fair toward the Scott Expedition and I am sure there are others that will be more even-handed in their assessments of the efforts made my the Scott party
