After the 1700s, this play fell into obscurity. It was later revived in the mid 1900s. Its period of obscurity does not surprise me. Believe me, I am a champion for Shakespeare's underrated "Timon of Athens" and "Coriolanus." I honestly TRIED to like this play, but I was forced to concur with the great Isaac Asimov who said: "Though it ends happily and is therefore technically a comedy, it lacks a carefree fun and happiness of the previous comedies. it is, indeed, rather an unpleasant play..." Well, onto the play. We meet the widowed Countess, her son Bertram, and the elder Lafew. We learn that the king is ill and quite possibly terminal. Possibly, Helena's father could have cured the king, but alas, he is dead. The Countess gives Bertram some advice that is not so far from the advice Polonius gave Ophelia. (Though the bumbling Polonius ends up being easier to like!) Helena loves Bertram, but feels beneath him and contemplates virginity. One comical moment is when Parolles reveals that in a way, virginity is a form of vain self love. Later, Helena cures the king, and Helena asks for Bertram as a husband. Now this is where I have a problem. Bertram is made out to be a villain. But how can we possibly not sympathize with him? Maybe Helena deserves something for saving the king, but does she really have the right to impose marriage on someone who doesn't like her? Well, Bertram is forced to go through with the marriage, but he quickly decides to help Florence against Siena. Poor Parolles who knows this forced marriage was unethical is constantly made a subject of ridicule in this play. This is where I have another problem. Rather than the clever misunderstandings of "The Comedy of Errors," the clever marital confrontations and errors in "Midsummer Night's Dream," or the comical and clever passages from Jaques in "As You Like It," the comedy in "All's Well That Ends Well" is reduced to the lowest possible form. (Flat out ridicule! It is interesting that in the word ridicule, we have the letters for cruel, but I am digressing.) In one decent elemenet of comedy, Bertram makes it clear that he would rather go to war than lie with his wife. (And perhaps in time, Bertram can appeal to the king to release him from this marriage. It wouldn't be unheard of.) One interesting thing is that Bertram remains honorable in the sense that he does not 'ravish' Helena. He doesn't love her, and therefore will not engage in sex. It is rather repulsive on his mother's part how she fails to understand the situation. Even if she was on Helena's side, she might AT LEAST understand Bertram's frustration in that he did not consent to the marriage. (And possibly try to at least talk things over in hopes of coming to a peaceful solution.) But no. She just rants and raves. Later the Countess reads a letter from Helena stating that she will leave so Bertram can come home from the war. This throws Bertram's mother into yet another rage on Helena's behalf, and perhaps moves the reader into sympathy with Helena. THAT IS, UNTIL OUR GOOD OLD UNCLE ISAAC ASIMOV points out the hypocrisy of Helena: "Helena is not quite as unselfish as she is presenting herself to be. She does not go to the shrine at all but sneaks off to Florence in disguise as a pilgrim hoping that she may yet return her reluctant husband." Well, onward. In Florence, Helena meets with Diana (whom Bertram loves). And Helena thinks she can trick Bertram into making her pregnant. We then have the cruel practical joke on Parolles where he is blindfolded and threatened to reveal military secrets (to friendly forces of course) or else. Perhaps even Shakespeare felt bad over this scene as he has Parolles say: "Who can not be crushed with a plot?" (4.3.340). We also see Bertram try to win the affections of Diana. Diana of course feels nothing for Bertram. But again, the hypocrisy of the play is prevalent. If we accept the fact that Bertram should respect Diana's wishes that she doesn't love him, how do we account for the fact that Helena imposed an unwanted marriage on Bertram? But of course Diana consents to meet Bertram and of course it will really be Helena who meets him. But even tricking Bertram into getting her pregnant is not enough. Helena decides to throw a sympathy party for herself by spreading the word of her death back home. Now in "Much Ado About Nothing," Hero had a valid excuse for staging her death. She was humiliated and disgraced in front of several people for something she was totally innocent of. But Helena was the one who imposed an unwanted marriage on Bertram, and she still wants a sympathy party. One redeeming element of the play is that Lafew shows some sympathy for the disgraced Parolles and offers him a job. And of course, in the end Bertram feels bad over Helena's staged death and is happy to see her alive again. Helena may very well be the Britney Spears of Shakespeare's characters.
