
A history of California, from the founding years through to Gov. Schwarzenegger, was always an ambitious undertaking, one fraught with difficulties, starting with how to approach it. A large, diverse state with a complex history, there are only a few options:  compile an encyclopedia, focus on a few defining events, or create lists.  Unfortunately, Starr takes the last approach, keeping the book to a short 350 pages, but filling those pages with one or two sentences on every event and every major figure in California history.

Unfortunately, while comprehensive, the disjointed style and lack of detail on any topic make for painful reading.  Nearly every paragraph deserves its own book or at least its own chapter. The San Francisco earthquake of 1906 rates 3 paragraphs.  

Here's one example taken at semi-random:  "The previous evening, a drunken miner had tried to break into Josefa's cabin, where she was living with her common-law husband, also a Mexican.  Upbraided by Josefa the next day for his conduce, the miner called her a whore.  Enraged, she stabbed him to death."

This was the most interesting passage on the page I opened at random, but it certainly needs to be its own story.  As a novel or movie, this event could succeed in illustrating life during that period in California history, but as half a paragraph, it's just more event in a long list of things that happened.

When Starr turns to arts and literature, the effect is even worse, pages packed with names of artists and writers.  Starr seemed to feel the need to include every writer who ever even visited San Francisco.

Further, parentheticals in nearly every sentence and a reliance on passive voice make the book feel as if it was dictated by a PBS narrator. Though cleared of footnotes and written in large text on small pages to appeal to a general audience, Starr is clearly a historian rather than a writer. Possibly this would have been a more interesting book had it been written by a journalist or novelist rather than an academic, though I expect that a journalist or novelist would realized that this undertaking was impossible and would instead have focused on one particular person or event.

In the end, I felt that I learned more about California history by reading a book focused on a particular theme - for example, Dennis McDougal's Privileged Son, which in the process of telling the history of the LA Times through multiple generations of the founding Chandler family, goes a good job telling the history of Los Angeles itself.

Overall, this book is far too dry to recommend it to someone looking for an overview of California history, and too cursory for anyone looking to learn anything about one particular time or place.
