For those who have never read "new age" mystic like Deepak Chopra or L.Ron Hubbard, or views on the merging of the eastern mystics with christianity, this might seem like a new book. But to most SF (speculative fiction) fans, we've seen this done too many times. 

It wouldn't turn a head at the Nebula Awards or even make it as a serial in Fantasy. It's been done so much better by people like Philip K. Dick, Isaac Asimov or Alfred Bester.

OK, what's wrong with it. Stop me if you've heard this one. Well the premise is from Fail Safe or maybe Dr. Strangelove. The out of control super-computer, with the mind of a maniacal would be world dictator. And the US military is out to blow it up before it can saturate the planet with nuclear explosions. But guess what? The computer is on to them...Oh My...Lions tigers and bears OH MY...we're not in Kansas any longer.
(Where are the singing Munckins when you need them!)

Whose going to straighten all this out???? Well, Dr.Tennant, that's who...doh ti dah, dotid di dot ti dahhhhh...able to leap all religions in a single bound, more powerful that quantum mechanics...look up in the sky, it's SUPER DOC! or is it DOC the Christ, Jesus, this was ridiculous at some points.

There is a fine line between profound and unfounded, and Iles has done a great job of tripping over the line. I have read other Iles books, notably "24", and found them interesting and well written. But why do I think if this manuscript was submitted under a nom de plume, it would have been laughed at. Probably because it was past plausibility.

Characterization belongs in a cartoon...mean evil general who beats his daughter, daughter who grows up meaner than daddy, frightened Indian neurologist, stylish eccentric englishman, persevering psychiatrist (and jewish to boot), noble palestinians and mosad (israeli) agents. Our hero is more resolute than James Bond, tougher than Jackie Chan, a better shot than a trained sniper, able to survive on land, air and on the sea....oh and don't forget the crazy billionaire computer genius who wants to have himself downloaded into the mega-computer so that he can live for eternity.

One word, UGH.
