By all rights, this third part of Matthiesson's trilogy should have been the juiciest entry, since Watson tells the details of his bloody story himself.  However, the book proves to be disappointingly pedestrian, with Matthiesson going back and sketching out Watson's early life, "explaining"  how he got to be as hard-hearted as he did, etc.  The linear approach is a  mistake, I think, and a bad one; indeed, in his obsession with local color  and period detail, Matthiessen seems to have forgotten the basic components  of a novel  -- seems to have forgotten, indeed, how to reward readers who  have made their way patiently through almost 1400 pages of material.  A  book where Watson told his story from the time he came to the Everglades to  the end, with the occasional flashback, would have been riveting.  Instead,  we get transcripts of trials, and again, mountains of information to sift  through.  Actually, that's been the problem with the series as a whole: as  much as I find it intermittently interesting, and as well as Matthiessen  can write at times, he's let the details and the chronology overwhelm him  here, swamping the narrative drive and making it all seem very plodding.   His other mistake, I think, is trying to explain Watson's character, more  or less giving reasons for his evil nature.  But evil is most interesting  when it's an enigma.  I don't buy the bland childhood scenes, the awful  father who "makes" Watson into what he is.  Matthiessen should have just  let evil be evil and got on with the story.  I also don't buy Watson's  voice throughout: I keep hearing Matthiessen behind it, blandly filling out  episodes most readers will care very little about.  The most riveting  section of the whole series comes in the second book when we get the 3 or 4  page version of the killing of the Tuckers written out by R.B. Watson.   What a shame that Matthiessen couldn't have matched that kind of intensity  for the conclusion of his monumental saga.  Sadly, much as I love  Matthiessen, I'd advise readers to call it quits after Killing Mr. Watson  (as Matthiessen should have).  It's the best of the lot
