This will probably be an unpopular review.  First, there can be no doubt that the men of the platoon of the story did their duty with bravery and competence.  Second, the book is reasonably written and appears to be well researched and thorough.  Having said that, this book seems to try too hard to exaggerate the importance and distinction of the short-term actions of a single platoon.  What is so unusual is that the book itself provides the evidence to counter this repetitive implication.  The actions of the men of this platoon were no more heroic than 90% or more of the line soldiers caught up by the battle of the bulge or any other major action of wars.  The critique that follows is not intended to lessen their sacrifice and bravery, but to try to put it in some perspective.  I include some details of the book.  Do not read on if you want to read this book.  First, the "epic" combat action of the platoon lasted less than a day (about 10-12 hours).  The fighting was intense but no more so (probably less so) than many many other units in the european theater.  As to the claim that their actions were pivotal to the American success in (eventually) repulsing the attack, just look at the recollection of the platoon's own members who state that it was only the unbelievable incompetence of the attacking German forces that delayed their eventual capture.  The platoon commander recalls even early in the battle that the superior force (primarily infantry, enemy tanks only show up later after their capture) could have easily flanked them and overwhelmed them at any time, and simply didn't.  The german tank commander interviewed after the war states that it was traffic jams that delayed his column, not the actions of a small platoon.  The book devotes one chapter to the "epic" (brief) battle.  The rest of the book bounces from the platoon members suffering as POWs, and a superficial account of the surviving 99th division combat actions.  Finally, the medals of distinction.  Only one of the medals (for the platoon leutenant) was recommended by the division's chain of command after the war.  All the rest were requested beginning in 1966 in response to that silver star medal.  The commanding leutenant takes on the crusade to have the rest of his soldiers recognized 20+ years after the fact.  Americans are grateful to all those who fought bravely in wwII (indeed all wars), and we can certainly understand the emotional attachment between the platoon commander and his men....but 4 DSCs, 5 silver stars, and 9 bronze stars?  Why not just hand out 18 medals of honor?  When compared to the continued combat bravery of other people/units in wwII, Korea, and Vietnam, this just pales terribly in comparison.  Even members of the platoon thought the medals were questionable:  "Don't call (me) a hero.  Please don't use that word.  Too many other people did a lot more than I did who were never recognized."   I agree.  When we confuse bravery and competence with true individual heroism sufficient to justify our nation's higher honors, we dilute the significance of those who truly performed amazing feats of distinction.  This may sound like more of a critique of the events than the book.  The link is that the book is much less than advertised (in my opinion).  The book is a decent historical account of what happened in this small component of the war.  For that it is a fair read.  If you expect it to impress you with true heroism and incredible combat action, you'd probably be better to look elsewhere.  It was a waste of time for me
