Before I start - SHE DIDNT EVEN WRITE THIS BOOK AND SO SHOULDN'T BE CREDITED. 
I watched a programme a while back on Victoria Beckham, and there were many references to this book in it so I thought I'd give it a read. I'm sorry, but emerging from one of the most successful bands in pop history has given Mrs. Beckham an over inflated ego and a bank balance to match. All the photographs of her and David at awards ceremonies and red carpet events... notice how she even positions their pose? There's nothing natural about her, she's a phoney, and this is coming from one of her previously biggest fans. 
I did not take one look at her and decide I hated her. That's not me. I used to think she was great "Wow, Posh Spice, look what she's done for herself! She's got it made!" HOWEVER, over the years she has increasingly changed my opinion of her for the worst. She is pretentious and self-richeous. Oh yes, so she loves her children, she's the greatest mother in the world, blaa blaa blaa... how dare people say Katie Price is an awful mother and then in the same breath preceed to praise Victoria Beckham. Katie Price is an amazing mother, devoting such love and affection to Harvey, whereas Victoria has always seemed slightly too self-obsessed to devote love to them solely - she appears to love herself just as much. I often see pictures of 'Beckham Family Holidays' in gossip papers, and the reporters say "David and Victoria enjoying a holiday with their children", "Devoted parents Victoria and David holiday in the sun with children" - doesn't anybody LOOK at the photos? It's always David and the kids, whilst Victoria suns herself or jokes with a companion. She's never spotted out and about with them unless David's there, she has a nanny to look after them. And what does she do all day? Shop. Or try to get her failed career off the ground. (This is one of Katie Price's strong points - she has always been there for her son). 
I'm not saying she's a bad mother - her children probably love her to death - she's just so fake, and this book proves that. Victoria un-neccesarily credits herself in this book (saying, for example, she re-wrote 'Out Of You Mind' when True Steppers have gone on record saying she only added one word to the chorus), makes unkind remarks about former friends (Her first fiance's ring was cheap because it only cost £2,000... whatever Victoria)... I'm afraid I don't have time for her. There's more name dropping in this book than in any other autobiography I've ever read. Read it if you will
