I was expecting a lot from this book, and I certainly walked away feeling disappointed.  Jayna Davis comes off as something of a literal Michael Moore for the right here.  I say that because much like Moore used his film to ambiguously blame the 9/11 attacks on Saudi Arabia, Ms. Davis seems to be insinuating that Saddam Hussein was responsible for this attack.  

First, yes, there is much more to this story than has been told to us.  John Doe number 2 is a legit question and the evidence does seem to indicate that he may have been a former Iraqi who was brought over to America by the first President Bush (along with many others).  But that does not mean that he, or anyone involved in the bombing, was funded or linked to Saddam (or Al Qaeda).  

A things to take into consideration:
I've read a few of the previous reviews that seem to indicate that because there are endorsements from former CIA director R. James Woolsey and Reagan DOD official Frank Gaffney, this makes the book completely legit.  Not quite.  Woolsey and Gaffney have become two of the loudest underground neoconservative voices of the last few years.  Woolsey also endorsed "A Study of Revenge" which pins the first WTC bombing on Hussein.  Clearly, he's more interested in justifying the war started by his peers than helping the American people find the truth.
 
Further, since these are two people who have the ears of the White House (especially the VP), why wouldn't this have been used to justify the second Gulf War if the evidence is so strong linking Saddam to this attack??  It certainly would have helped make the case, and given the American people a solid reason for taking the man out.  Considering that this adminstration has no problem playing fast and loose with the facts, I would imagine they would have run with this premise, even if they have minor doubts.  

Personally, I don't believe Saddam had the ability to pull something like this off.  Throughout the 90's he was heavily contained and monitored.  I can't see him pulling off an attack like this (or the first WTC).  

Still, this book raises some important questions that remain unanswered to this day.  And those questions should continue to be asked, just as many questions about 9/11 persist.  But raving endorsements from Glenn Beck, Woolsey and Gaffney actually hurt the credibility of this book rather than help it.
