I read "Daughter of Time" when I was a research student at Cambridge writing a dissertation on Yorkist and Lancastrian politics, with some emphasis on the life and reign of Richard III.  I was appalled at the viciousness of Tey's denigration of historians.  What I did not immediately realize was that she had consulted historians specializing in Richard III, and they had without exception dismissed her thesis as incompetent hogwash.  She consequently took the attitude of all proponents of indefensible dogmas, and labelled the historians as incompetent dogmatists.
Decades later, when it occurred to me to review Tey's novel, I looked it up on the Amazon website, and was again appalled, this time because customer reviewers to this day continue to take Tey's blithering drivel seriously.
That Richard III has been the victim of extremely bad press, based on the Lancastrian propaganda of Thomas More, is not in dispute.  He was not a hunchback.  Far from conniving in the execution of his brother George of Clarence, he did everything in his power to try to prevent it, and when he came to power, the Woodvilles, whom he blamed for George's death, paid the ultimate price.  Tey gets most of that right.
But on the issue of who ordered the killing of the princes in the Tower of London, Tey reveals her incompetence, not only in history, but in rational human thought.  She concludes that, on the basis of the available evidence, no present-day jury would find Richard guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and she is right.  But having herself set a standard of evidence that the case against Richard does not meet, she then turns around and convicts Henry VII of the same crime in the absence of any evidence whatsoever.  Hypocrisy?  Or just plain intellectual inadequacy?
Edward V and his younger brother were confined to the Tower by Richard III, and never emerged alive.  Their bodies were eventually discovered buried on the Tower grounds.  But during Richard III's lifetime, French politicians as well as the Duke of Buckingham were publicly accusing him of murdering them.  All he had to do to refute such allegations was parade the princes through the streets of London so that the population could see for themselves that they were alive.  Richard did not do that, for the logical reason that they were indeed already dead.  Tey's delusion that Richard was never made aware of the accusations is preposterous.
Richard III was highly regarded by the people who knew him best, the officials of the city and county of York.  With the exception of the murder of two children he saw as a potential focus of a new Lancastrian uprising, none of the crimes alleged against him were ever committed.  But he almost certainly did kill his nephews, even if not by the means described by Thomas More.
(see my unabridged review in the June 2006 issue of midwestbookreview.com
