When the End of History appeared, one did not know exactly what to think of it, nowadays we know who Fukuyama is: the US Republican party ideologue. While the end of history tried to prove the US Republican ideology as the philosophical nec plus ultra, the goal of history, in an Hegelian way, the great disruption tries to prove it as a biological-sociological necessity, to be human is to be a Republican. 
Although it is a flawed book, it makes interesting reading to discern fact and fiction in this book, the places where the conclusions and facts just disconnect, it is like unravelling the Da Vinci code. The danger of the book is the indiscriminate use of academic bits and pieces, it gives a veneer of credibility to the whole were it is not always warranted.  
The basic premise of the book, namely the importance of social capital and the decline thereof since the mid 60's, is something I take as credible, although even Fukuyama admits he cannot really prove it very well. From the dip in social capital, Fukuyama delves into the fundamentals of human nature to prove that we are moral and will ultimately reconstitute some moral order along conservative party lines, the invisible hand of morality will cause an upward cycle after every downward cycle, hardly a convincing story line. 
What is, however funny about the book is that the academic material presented can just as easily be construed to disprove the republican dogmas. E.g. accepting the importance of social capital in healthy economies makes mince-meat of the Bush-bubble economic policy of indiscriminate deficit spending. I do think social capital deserves its own capital letter in the Cobb-Douglass function, it would probably de-emphasize the worship of productivity a little bit in economic thought and make economic theory a bit more relevant to the economy. 
Other blind spots for Fukuyama include the role of inequality in the break-down of social capital (e;g; in the false statement that it is pride, not injustice, why test persons reject unequal outcomes in 2-player distribution games). Another blind spot for Fukuyama is that he sees only a causal relation one-way between the loss of social capital and demographic decline, not the other way around, from demographic decline to loss of social capital. 
Fukuyama writes with ideological blinders but still puts the main social problem of the 90's and early 21st century on the table, that is why I grant a 2 star to the book.  
 
