Let's talk about the heart of the matter here with regards to Christianity. Jesus Lives... can other faiths say the same about their god? No other God on earth came to live and die on the Holy Cross of Calvary and then resurrect to further spread the Good News. 

No other god has died for every imaginable sin and carried it on His back to the slaughter. It is prophetic, this persecution and mockery against those that believe in Jesus. Scripture lists this prophesy time and time again:

Job 17:2 Surely mockers surround me my eyes must dwell on their hostility. 

Psalm 1:1 Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of mockers. 

Proverbs 1:22 'How long will you simple ones love your simple ways? How long will mockers delight in mockery and fools hate knowledge? 

Proverbs 3:34 He mocks proud mockers but gives grace to the humble. Proverbs 19:29 Penalties are prepared for mockers, and beatings for the backs of fools. 

Proverbs 29:8 Mockers stir up a city, but wise men turn away anger. 

Isaiah 29:20 The ruthless will vanish, the mockers will disappear, and all who have an eye for evil will be cut down- 

Hosea 7:5 On the day of the festival of our king the princes become inflamed with wine, and he joins hands with the mockers. 

As I read this book to my husband, he looked at me quietly and said to me after seeing my sadness: It is these people (referring to Harris) that the Lord has called us to love- despite it all. 

I know that there are plenty of people who will continue to put God in a box (these are the intellectuals)and will want to fit Him into their scheme of things but God wouldn't be God if he was that small... 

I know Harris loves himself and demonstrates the epitomy of narcissism in his propaganda. But the truth is, he will one day know the faults of his stinging attacks against Christians, humanity, and those that strongly believe in truth. 

I also grieve, like many unbelievers, when I see a Christian, a person after the heart of the Lord, commit a moral failure... it only proves what we keep hearing from the world: Christians aren't perfect. This I know full well. But it is because of this truth that keeps us apart from the Lord, thus the reason for Jesus' birth.

I have to believe a loving, merciful, and yes, jealous God exists for this reason and because I see so much depravity, so much immorality in this world.  

How many crimes go unpunished in this world? 

I have to believe that although man in all his faults, injustice, and sin will allow for criminals to walk free, there must be an Almighty judge who sees all things, and will give those their due reward. 

Harris' rant is what it is: a piece of information from a broken, shattered heart that can only be redeemed by the One. Remember that all things will be revealed... in His time.

I recommend these books: 
The Bible, New King James version. 
Joni Eareckson Tada's 'When God Weeps', for those that want to know why God sent His innocent son to die for us all. 
'Love Beyond Reason' by John Ortberg, for those that continue to wonder how God sees us in this broken world.
