John Harris is not shy about his feelings for DSotM.  The back cover of this book states "Pink Floyd's 'Dark Side of the Moon' (1973) is one of the most beloved albums of all time.  A sonically stunning exploration into dark themes...  Besides being perhaps the most fully realized and elegant concept album ever recorded, 'The Dark Side of the Moon' [sic] was also one of the most technologically advanced LPs of its day."  

Yeah, right.

Questionable hyperbole aside, Harris starts the book with the by-now familiar story of The Pink Floyd Sound, Syd Barrett, early psychedelia, quick success, Syd's decline and the band's decision to carry on without him.  It's an interesting story, and many books and articles have mined it for dramatic appeal.

For me, what happened next is the most interesting part -- the band throws out the pop song format and begins turning music inside out, experimenting with long drones, alternate playing techniques, and new music structures never before seen on this planet.  Their incredible inventiveness creates a whole new style of music, with a ripple effect on everything that follows.  Unfortunately, Harris is less enamored of "Saucerful," "More," "Ummagumma," "Atom Heart," "Meddle" and "Obscured" than I am, dismissing them rather cavalierly as "poorly realized, loose-ended stuff" that "sought, in their own ill-advised way, to test both their audience's expectations and the limits of musical orthodoxy."

Apparently musical orthodoxy is very important to author Harris, because he gets all gushy when he gets to Chapter 3 and starts relating stories of the creation of DSotM.  For those of us who LOVED the unorthodoxy and limits-testing, DSotM was a huge disappointment from day one, the episode where Pink Floyd "jumped the shark" (to use a TV metaphor), sold out and started playing to the lowest common denominator.  It was also the undeniable beginning of the end, where PF got so famous that they became prisoners of their own success.  Instead of musicians, they became commodities.  They all went off and bought mansions and were miserable.

To Harris this is all fine.  DSotM is his favorite album in the whole world and he gathers all available material about the creation of this album.  It's a fine story as far as it goes; and Harris does a credible job of telling it; and Floyd fans will enjoy the retelling.

I just wish John Harris knew the Pink Floyd I knew and loved.
