Term Limits is so bad, it should become a pop culture icon ala Rocky Horror Picture Show; fans should be made to wear strange clothing and recite the worst passages to music at midnight. It's so bad that by the end, the act of reading has become blatant rubber-necking - ooh, wow, did you see that?  Ugh! 

The writing is amateurish at best.  The author's favorite action verb is 'grab' and he uses it repeatedly in scenes ranging from the mundane (the grabbing of keys and doorknobs) to the romantic (the grabbing of hands and other body parts).  Similes and metaphors are conspicuously absent, but there are plenty of adverbs and adverbial phrases to fill the gap. 

The author switches back and forth between referring to his characters by their first and their last names; sometimes he uses one and then - in the very next sentence! - the other. "Michael grabbed her by the shoulders and turned her around. O'Rourke saw the tears in her eyes and tried to put his arms around her..."

He makes many grammatical errors, the most irritating of which is the substitution of 'that' for 'who' consistently ["Congressman O'Rourke received this tape earlier today along with a letter from the assassins that were responsible for killing..."]

The dialogue is stilted and clunky - at the lowest point, he has his assassin ask another character to tell him what has 'transpired' since last they talked.  Rather than simply 'saying' things, the characters yell, shout and scream them, resulting in the unfortunate image of the president of the United States waxing shrill and screechy at his chief of staff.

The plot is neither plausible nor compelling.  The protaganists include a bunch of renegade CIA operatives who murder 'bad' politicians, and a Congressman who approves of these actions and even helps to kidnap and murder a 'bad' retired CIA black ops director.  The antagonists include the aforementioned black ops director, the head of the national security agency, and the bumbling and ridiculous White House chief of staff.  The demand made by the 'good' assassins, following their murder of four prominent politicians, is that the president present a BALANCED BUDGET with NO NEW TAXES to the Congress!  Our intrepid hero-Congressman finds this a worthy cause, and when some 'good' politicans (i.e. the sort who push for the balanced budget idea) are murdered, he is inspired to wreak some violence of his own.

No one, whether they be protagonist or antagonist, seems to possess a moral compass.  'Bad' guys can be murdered indiscriminately and no consequences will be applied; the murder of a 'good' guy may be avenged, again, without consequence. The climax and its aftermath are laughably bad; of course, I can't reveal the ending, but let me just point out that the climax begins with a bunch of CIA operatives sneaking into a house by jumping out of a helicopter hovering overhead.  Apparently, this is some kind of silent helicopter, because the people inside the house were unaware of its presence.

That this book was published at all, much less that it received initial printings large enough to place it on the bestseller list, is emblematic of everything that has gone wrong with publishing.  It stands as a slap in the face to every talented writer in the country.
