First of all, I recommend everyone to read the book in order to have an idea where a lot of modern day values come from. 

The book recognizes a problem women (as well as all other humans) have to deal with: how to find fulfillment in life. The problem is that Friedan seems to think this problem only concerns housewives and stay at home moms, and that the problem could be solved by those women getting jobs outside the home. An interesting hypothesis, but judging by today's women, clearly wrong. There are plenty of career women that feel rather unfulfilled. 

She describes the problem as women slaving away to keep the house perfectly clean and the kids perfectly taken care of, and then getting depressed as a result. They do this out of a perceived societal pressure. To me, the solution seems to be to check whether this is really what their kids and husband want. In reality, probably no-one cares whether you wash the windows once per week or once per month, so you could spend that time thinking about your values in order to raise your kids as moral individuals, or learning about current events, so that you can actually have a real conversation with your husband, or reading a book for fun. 

Getting a job because you're feeling unfulfilled trying to outperform Martha Stewart is as much of an escape tactic as becoming an alcoholic. Being a teacher is as much "living through others" as being a mother is. Shuffling papers around like people with average office jobs doesn't intrinsically give any more fulfillment than making a healthy meal for your spouse and kids does.

The book did some good in promoting equal rights for men and women, but also caused a harmful movement that indoctrinates modern girls and women that the *only* path to fulfillment is through employment, which is clearly nonsense. Housewives and mothers can be really valuable to society, which can give them a strong sense of fulfillment.

Aside from the above, the research Friedan did to back up her point was rather bad and biased, with frequent misuse of statistics. A list of factual errors and omissions in her book is listed on this website:

cf.en.cl

In conclusion, the book is important as a historical document, but has to be approached with extreme caution. One could call it propaganda.

- 22yo housewife and part-time science/engineering majo
