I read Armies of the Night for a graduate school class.  I found this novel/history very difficult to read.  I would sometimes find myself reading a page over three times before I could get anything out of it.  It was inaccessible, frustrating, and in short order I felt great hostility bordering on hatred for the author.  For example, early in the book Mailer announces to a room full of people that he had just urinated all over the restroom floor when he could find neither the light switch nor the urinal.  He is inebriated at the time.  Perhaps he intended this to be a humorous revelation, I thought it was obnoxious.

Another example of Mailer's ego, is when he states early in the book that he is "probably willing to die" for the anti-war cause.  This is revealed as macho swagger because at the moment of truth, Mailer is unwilling to even do a paltry five days in jail for the cause.  He complains about the conditions in jail; he can't shave and his clothes get dirty.  I thought the authorities were generous to provide everyone a bed to sleep in, as well as meals, coffee, and reading material but this was apparently insufficient for Mr. Mailer as he finds fault with all of it.  

The book gets better when we leave Mailer's personal experience and are finally permitted to learn something about the brave young men and women who made up the heart of the protest.  Some of the protesters spent the night in the cold outside the Pentagon, some were beaten by the guards, and others had water poured on them while they were sleeping.  Unfortunately this part of the book is much briefer than Mailer's narrative.

For me, this book is ruined by Mailer's self-important posturing.  If the author's goal was to make readers hate him, I think he succeeded.  I have utterly no idea why this book won a Pulitzer Prize.  Perhaps it is an example of the adage "you had to be there."  I have read Mailer's other Pulitzer Prize winner, The Executioner's Song, and I liked it.   This book however, was awful.  
