As an avid reader I started out slow, disconcerted by the second person voice, but I quickly caught on. I won't go over the details mentioned in other reviews but I will mention one thing that caught my attention.

Although the writer never specifically states that all of the animal deaths in the book are due to the diphtheria epidemic (cows, dogs ect.) one is easily led to that conclusion. Animals, however, are not affected by diphtheria. When two widow ladies die of "Paris Green" poison it's clear that they've died from something other than diphtheria, it's even clear WHY they ingested the poison (conflict), but we're left to assume that the animals died of diphtheria.

I found myself feeling angry that Jacob didn't or couldn't follow the doctor's orders and use precautions with the first two bodies. I felt he was responsible for carrying the disease to his wife and daughter. It makes you think about how you would react in a similar circumstance. I felt his interior hopelessness, his personal demons left over from the Civil War made it impossible for him to act decisively and take precautions....acting with hope. His actions in not taking precautions leaves one with the sense that he felt the epidemic was inevitable. He reacts, he doesn't act.

As for the doctor, I felt he alone was responsible for the spread of the disease by also failing to act courageously. He feared REaction from the towns' people if he activated a widespread quarantine, and by the time that he did, it was simply to late. Often, acting with courage means making unpopular decisions. I would have liked to see him struggle more with it, as Jacob struggled with, but accepted, the lack of quarantine.

I feel this book is more of a commentary on human action and inaction, a drama we see playing itself out nearly every day. You're left to wonder if our current policies and government would act in a similar manner, without courage and without decision. I'd have to answer yes.

Although this book is set in the post-Civil War era, this book is an effective modern day commentary on society.
