After reading these reviews and taking Anna Lee's very sage advice to try it via the library first, now I understand.  It looks as if Mr. Gordon had several of his friends jump in and write reviews to get Ms. Lee's unfavorable review off the front page.  Being the suspicious type, I checked out these reviewers, and they have all written only one review each, all giving Mr. Gordon five stars for his book, all within days of each other.  

But no matter.  Typical lawyer tactics don't impress me and neither did this typical lawyer's book.  Having spent most of my adult life in the music industry in NYC and elsewhere, I have experienced just about everything in this business, and I am only sorry that Ms. Lee and so many others had to listen in person to this gentleman's spiel, as that's what The Future of the Music Business turns out to be: a spiel.  

Yes, he has the requisite case studies with "indie" artists giving it a go on their own as an attempt to add cred to his manuscript, but Mr. Gordon (or perhaps his ghostwriter) knows nothing about digital technologies, that is apparent, nor does he offer his readers any new solutions.  He is very much from the old school where the only game in town was the nearest major label that pulled all the purse strings.  Now that the Internet has obliterated that, formerly holier-than-thou industry types are finding themselves at a real loss as for how to deal with it, and we see plenty of old dogs with half-a$$ed new tricks to push on the public. 

The only advice I have for those in this new music industry, and it's free:  Carve your own niche instead of trying to fit the ones sculpted by the suits.  In these strange times where Kelly Clarkson, et. al., are unbelievably considered punk rock, we are definitely due for some big changes.  The markets are changing with the emergence of India and China, not to mention a European Union with over 450 million people.  Add the Internet to this mix and you have the opportunity for many niche markets to evolve without the current major label system as a constituent.  The Internet is integrating into and changing the very nature of TV and radio as we know them, and amen to that.

Mr. Gordon deserves credit for one thing and one thing only: his book is no better or no worse than anything else out there. 
