As someone who has read a lot of inane sports book (if you took out all the f-words in Lenny Dykstra's book, it wouldn't even make for a pamphlet) but this clearly is the worst book ever published by someone who can seems to be able to speak English.

He is entertaining and witty holding a microphone and in the forward, he pretty much admits he just took the money but clearly so did the "editor" and publisher - nothing wrong with that - we don't expect most sport bios or sport commentary books to be very substantial in tone or language but to be pointless, dull and pointless and dull - yes, it's that's pointless and dull.

The premise seems pretty simple - basically give us a rundown on the year on the PGA Tour - give us insights or take us there? Doesn't sound too difficult. Can't write - not a problem - why not just talk into a recorder and someone can type it up, an editor can move things and so forth but to fail on every level?

Nearly every sentence starts out with one idea and wanders off to another completely.

After being a golfer and a commentator for nearly 20 years, you'd think he'd offer some insights - any insights? Except that golf is hard and sometimes unfair ... really? Is it saving it all for the TV?

Funny stories? Nope. Says some stories are funny but can't them to us or writes it in such a manner, it's not funny.

He's infamous as an announcer for being banned from the Masters Tournament - how about setting the record straight? Nope. Gives us some general info everyone knows and then goes into another subject IN THE SAME CHAPTER.

On TV, he is a raconteur and witty but gives ZERO evidence here. Unless you just want it on your shelf to own every golf book or if you intend to hollow it out and store valuables, there's no real point to owning this book as reading material.

For golf fans, this this clear a whiff, the grip slips off, the driver goes flying and knocks us loopy. Even in that condition, we could've written two coherent sentences that McCord is clearly incapable of ...

In contention for the worst book ever published
