A few years ago I spent nearly a year travelling around Australia, and returned curious about some of the strange things I had seen there.  I  asked for this book for my birthday because of the good reviews it had  received on Amazon.com.  However, when I finally got it none of my biggest  questions were addressed.  Previously, most of my knowledge of these  subjects came from reading the little natural history bits in my Lonely  Planet Guide or by watching certain T.V. documentaries. I wanted a source  of information that went beyond these and revealed some of the underlying  explanations and science involved. I wanted to know the origins of some of  the famous landforms such as the Bungle Bungle or Ayer's Rock.  I'd also  wanted to know what shaped the dry interior.  I heard it was the bottom of  a sea at one time.  What the book does talk about in the geology section is  the split up of Gondwana in multi-paged depth, and gives no more special  attention to Australia than other continents.  None of my questions were  addressed, and the facts listed were not interesting to me.  In the section  on animals the author gave no real overview on their origins, and just  listed a number of the most popular species and gave a little  characterization of each.  In many parts of the book I found that my  tourist's range of knowledge actually included some things the author  didn't mention, such as how aboriginal burning shaped the ecology.   Also,  it often seemed that the author did not thoroughly know his subject matter,  but was just quoting from one of his sources. Eventually I began to loose  confidence that this book was written by an expert on the natural history  of Australia and more by a publication-hopeful writer (this is my opinion  based on his bio)who compiled an incomplete list of facts from numerous  sources, some of which were pertinent, others more randomly picked. The  book read like one giant research paper where the student sits down with a  stack of books on his subject and quotes pieces verbatim from all of them.   It also reads like an almanac.  That said, this book does list a thousand  things previously unknown to me, just not exactly the things I was after
