I love world literature. As much as I can, I try to broaden my literary horizons and explore literature that isn't completely well-known in the Western world (esp. those by the most arcane authors that I wish were more recognized!). I have read many so far by Halldor Laxness and other authors of world literature, many which I truly love and will always have a special place in my heart. Of course I don't expect every novel to be this way, regardless if it's a classic or not a classic. At the end it's about what I get from it. The Tin Drum, for me, is the most intriguing, interesting, and unique novel that I've ever read. But it's also the most frustrating and pointless book I've read as well. I'm ambivalent. I like the book for its very original character, Oskar, an "eternal three year old," and some vivid scenes and chapters that were heartbreaking, if not just downright bizarre (such as the horse's head filled with eels, Oskar's mother's strange suicidal attempt, etc). Also, I give Gunter Grass a lot of credit for writing a novel that takes place during Nazi Germany without having the Nazis and actual events during WWII become the primary focus of the character's psyche (in fact, because of the character's childlike and caustic narration of the events that happened, at times you kind of forget that there's a WWII!). Without a doubt, this is an original piece of work that definitely deserved all of its accolades, and yes, it's a classic. However, I feel that this is the kind of book that leaves you scratching your head. It's not a horrible novel, it's well-written, and the characters are realistic and likeable. But yet, you can't help but feel that this book is a bit pretentious (does it necessarily need to be nearly 600 pages?), some chapters aren't worth reading and feel more like filler (you can skip over some and still understand what's going on), and the character becomes a bit redundant. Yeah yeah i know, the main character is in a mental institution, and yes, he's insane, but how many times must he emphasize the significance of his tin drum? This is just my opinion of the book, some people seem to love it, and the reasons why they do are very clear. But as I said before, regardless if you are an avid reader of world literature or just a casual reader, this book is not for everyone. You either love it or you don't. Some scenes I enjoyed, and I was touched by some of the character's inner thoughts, but it's not enough for me to praise this book as some people have. Sorry, but I just didn't like it.
