As a big fan of Steven Saylor's Sub Rosa series, I was very excited by the idea of a mystery set in Roman Britain.  Alas, Ruth Downie's MEDICUS is not very satisfying as either history or mystery.  The story takes place in the Roman outpost of Deva (modern Chester) where the settings include an army base and a brothel whose employees keep turning up dead.  Ms. Downie seems to have the philosophy that people of the past were just like us except that they wore funny clothes.  They deal with an endless system of bureaucracy and bookkeeping not unlike that of the 19th Century.  The rhythm of the speech of all the characters is modern day British.  What this book really brought to mind was the old PLANET OF THE APES movies, wherein the apes have a distinctly 20th Century American sensibility and ride horses and drive stagecoaches.  The book is probably a lot more enjoyable if regarded as fantasy rather than as history.  The mystery is virtually nonexistent since the culprit is obvious upon introduction and the suspense is limited to a small section toward the end of the book.  MEDICUS has other problems besides these.  To begin with, Ms. Downie's male characters are very unconvincing.  Her hero, an army doctor, spends virtually the first two hundred pages of this 368-page tome fretting about the poor standards of housekeeping, the preparation and preservation of food, undisciplined pets and his failed marriage.  Being a man myself, I just didn't buy it.  The slow pace is excruciating.  There is very little action up until about the last 75 pages or so and the book is over about 30 pages before it actually ends (quite predictably, I might add).  There are several extraneous chapters that do not even function well as red herrings.  If I had borrowed this book from the library I would not have finished it, but since I bought it I felt obligated trudge through to the end.  I predict a short career for Ms. Downie's army-doctor-turned-sleuth.

The book is at its best with the female characters, whose roles are relatively brief, and the romantic elements.  This leads me to believe that Ms. Downie would be better off using a female protagonist in her next book and emphasizing the romance.  I'd rate the book at one-and-a-half stars, rounded up to two
