
I found Russell S. Bonds'   "Stealing the General" to be a great disappointment.  Upon receiving the book, I eagerly checked the index for references to my ancestor, Ovid Wellford "James" Smith.  Then to my chagrin, I found that the author went  to great lengths to portray Ovid as an interloper undeserving of the Medal of Honor!

Unfortunately, since not a lot is known about  this young man, who volunteered  to be a soldier at the age of 16 and at age 17 volunteered for the Andrews Raid, the author resorted to conjecture and derogatory statements.  Ovid and fellow  raider, Samuel Llewellyn, were referred to as "wayward would-be raiders".  They WERE raiders, of course.  They WERE NOT "wayword" , but had followed orders and joined a Confederate  artillary unit when it became necessary.  

The author notes that Ovid was "missing" from the 1888 Reunion of the Andrews Raiders.  That would have been a good place to inform the reader that Ovid died twenty years earlier.  Instead, Mr. Bonds begins a new attack; this time on the young man's father, whom he describes as so "seemingly untroubled by his son's lack of involvement in the operation" that he "actively lobbied  the War Department for his son to receive the Medal of Honor." The truth is, The Reverend Samuel Smith wrote ONE letter asking that his son be put on " the same footing" as the other men.  Samuel Smith was a highly respected ordained Baptist minister who was revered by  his fellow citizens in  Parkersburg, West Virginia.  He would not have asked for something his son did not deserve.  

The author was so intent on convincing his readers that Ovid was not deserving of the Medal, that he didn't  bother to mention that this "young pup" (his words) spent several months in Swims jail in Chattanooga, as did the other raiders.  This may have led to his death at the age of 23, but that is only conjecture.  Conjecture, over time, can come to be believed as fact.  That is something that troubles me about this book:; an abundance of conjecture.  It may make the narrative more exciting, but  then the reader has to try to sort out the fact from the fiction. In this book, Bonds has done a hatchet job on Ovid Smith's reputation as an Andrews Raider. In the early 1900's all of the Medal of Honor awards were reviewed, including Ovid Smith's . Ovid was found to be worthy of his Medal. And that's a fact!

When I read something that I know is not true, I find myself doubting the accuracy of the entire book. And sadly, that is how it is with this book.  If you are interested in the Andrews Raid, buy  "The General and The Texas" by Stan Cohen and James G. Bogle.  Colonel Bogle is the ultimate authority  on the subject of the Andrews Raid.

 





