
     A delusion does not stop to be a delusion simply because
     the majority share it.
             Leo Tolstoy

If this text were written by a student, it would be pooh-poohed. However... most of reviewers here gave it five stars. Why? There is the so-called Blatant Nonsense Effect: if they read a blatant nonsense produced by an authority, many will believe it, especially those with herd instincts.

Marketing alchemists are in quest for "laws." Theodore Levitt: "The problem with the marketing con-cept is a persistent tendency toward rigidity. It get dogmatized.  There is not, and cannot be, any rigid and lasting interpretation of what the marketing concept means." But nobody takes heed of that.
 
Marketing situations are subject to a zillion of circumstances - precisely what make "a rigid dogmatiza-tion" a folly. Also, any result in business is an outcome of joint efforts of many departments.

NO PROOFS - Messrs Ries & Trout prove nothing and do not delineate validity ranges for their "wis-doms."

EXAMPLES - In the ocean of marketing situations you can find examples of whatever, including mu-tually exclusive ones.

IMMUTABILITY - The authors do not know the meaning of "immutable." Physics laws are immuta-ble because they work without exceptions.  The" 22 immutable laws" are rather exceptions. The "im-mutabilis" epidemic is now raging.

READERSHIP - Who is the target readership of the book? Microsoft, Coca-Cola, Harley-Davidson, and a score of other grandees; or millions of SMEs that manufacture useful mundane products? Looks like grandees.

A CLIENT'S MIND - The authors admit that marketing is a game occurring in the mind of a Client. But they provide ample evidence of being absolutely disinterested in this game.
So, they overlook the fact that today's Clients are indifferent, cynical, overwhelmed with proposals in any product category, sick of advertising, and armed with the Internet. Clients have scarce personal re-sources: time, attention, memory, interestedness, desire to strain themselves, etc. Are they willing to spend them on trade names? Sometimes yes; mostly not.
That's harsh reality. Most of marketing texts ignore it. 
SOPHOMORIC REASONING - "There are laws of nature, so why shouldn't there be LAWS OF MARKETING?" - That's logic for you!

FALLACIES and BANALITIES - The book is a collection of easily refuted fallacies and unnecessary banalities.

The FALLACIES:
1. LEADERSHIP - "It's better to be first than it is to be better."
How do the authors define "first"? By market share, profits, capitalization, or whatever? A company with the largest share may be not the most profitable.
"Get into the mind first" - walk out of your ivory tower and poll whether people know "firsts," etc. One may know the names of a dozen of non-marketing "firsts." But can this idea be mechanistically translated to categories?
The "law" suggests that (1) you should not convince prospects; (2) you should not strive to improve your products; (3) ALL the vendors minus one (first) in a category pursue faulty marketing strategies.
An ocean of firms fare well without creating a category, many category creators go belly up. Creating a category and "getting into the mind" are uncorrelated things.
"You should always try to select a name that can work generically." -  Ironically, Ries in his "22 Im-mutable Laws of Branding" says exactly the opposite.
Guys, will you please settle this round the corner. If, of course, you respect the readership. And is you do not want to make fools of yourself.

3. MIND - "It is better to be first in the mind than first in the marketplace."
Well, if there is a place available in that mind!
Law 1 says it is better to be first than it is to be better.  Law 3 says there is something better still.

4. PERCEPTION - "Marketing is not a battle of products, it's a battle of perceptions."
A Client has no perceptions about a sea of products. How is he supposed to purchase them?

5. FOCUS - "The most powerful concept in marketing is owning a word in the prospect's mind."
and
6. EXCLUSIVITY - "Two companies cannot own the same word in the prospect's mind."
Go out and ask people in the street what "words" are owned by thousands of firms.

14. ATTRIBUTES - "For every attribute, there is an opposite, effective attribute."
Nonsense. Suppose I use the attribute "good." Will the opposite, i.e., "bad," be more effective?

7. LADDER - "The strategy to use depends on which rung you occupy on the ladder."
What "strategies" are recommended for each rung?
The authors allege that each rung has twice the market share of the rung below it. Much data refute this!

8. DUALITY - "In the long run, every market becomes a two-horse race."
In rare occasions, e.g., in popular software, this may be the case, but there are thousands of prosperous many-horse lines of business: beverages, sportswear, construction, oil, etc.

9. OPPOSITE - "If you're shooting for second place, your strategy is determined by the leader."
"If the leader is STRONG, #2 can occupy his place." Well, and if the leader is WEAK? What is a claimant supposed to do?
Not a single example of something "opposite."

11. PERSPECTIVE - "Marketing effects take place over an extended period of time."
and
21. ACCELERATION - "Successful programs are not built on fads, they're built on trends."
Some marketing effects take place overnight; others, may take years. 
The Japanese say that they think ten years ahead; Europeans think ten days ahead; and Americans think ten minutes ahead.
 
12. LINE EXTENSION - "There's an irresistible pressure to extend the equity of the brand."
The authors are dogmatic fighters against line extension although there are lots of successful extensions around.

15. CANDOR - "When you admit a negative, the prospect will give you a positive."
Well, a couple of dubious examples may or may not support this statement.

16. SINGULARITY - "In each situation only one move will produce substantial results."
Can you, guys, prove that?

The other "laws" are a collection of banalities. I'll only mention one here:

18. SUCCESS  - "Success often leads to arrogance, and arrogance to failure."
This "law" splendidly applies to our authors.

GLOOMY CONCLUSIONS - This piece of wishful thinking and fantasia is a disappointment and a disaster. It is insulting for serious professionals.

Also, the book is a litmus paper of the qualification and integrity of the book's 17 academic reviewers - they pronounced this collection of fallacies, banalities, exceptions, wrong prophecies, and downright stupidities the "best marketing book." 
Something is rotten in the kingdom of marketing!
