The prologue starts out with great promise.  The writing style is a little clunky, but I figured he was just getting warmed up.  Mr. Sterling spends a considerable amount of time building up the first character we meet.  Don't get too attached, as he plays almost no part in the remaining 4/5's of the story.

Some novelists are quite adept at building one character or scene per chapter, bringing them all together at some point toward the middle of the story.  At first you think that is what is happening in The Zenith Angle, but it's not.  It's just a random collection of very loosely related events that don't tie in very well at the end.

If you are at all technical in the computer field, this book will irritate you.  Given the various descriptions of the Internet and associated technologies, it's painfully obvious Mr. Sterling has no clue how computers communicate with each other, or how the Internet really works.  At one point the main character builds an "entirely secure" OS over the course of a few weeks, with a budget of $100,000.  

As laughable as that is, the only reason for this new operating system is to introduce a hacker type who attacks the ultra secure OS.  The hacker shows up, attacks the OS and then vanishes from the story.  There is no tie-in, no recourse later, and he never shows up again.  It's a random short story in the middle of the main story.

And random is the key word for this novel.  30% of the way through, there is no direction to the story.  Random characters and situations arise which do nothing to advance, or clarify the story line.

After thrashing around for 200 pages with no plot, Mr. Sterling tries to find some message to leave the reader with.  Out of the blue, he attacks Microsoft.  This is bizarre, to say the least.  He spends a few pages attacking Bill Gates for the amount of money he has, the success of Microsoft, etc.  Then he gets on the soap box to tell us how nifty Open Source is.  Sadly, there is no tie-in between this and his previous blathering.  The overwhelming message you take away from this book is that Mr. Sterling appears to have been on a mission, but you're not even positive of that.  He throws out several "messages" for the reader.  The book has almost nothing to do with the zenith angle, or terrorism.  It's more a microphone for him to air his fairly disjoint thoughts on several loosely connected topics.
 
As one reviewer pointed out, if you're ADHD, this book is for you.  But to maximize your enjoyment, be sure to skip your meds for a few days prior to reading it.  The writing style is irritating if you're able to hold a coherent thought for more than a second or two.  Consider reading 300 pages of "Van opened the door.  Van closed the door.  Van inserted the key.  Van started the engine.  The engine was loud.  Van doesn't like Microsoft because it's the evil empire.  Van put the car in gear.  The car started moving. "

All in all, The Zenith Angle sounded like a good read but was a major disappointment.  Save your money.
