While Black and Blue does bring to light and make the readers aware of the depths and secrets involved in spousal abuse, it is rather difficult to identify with, like, or even feel anything for the protagonist.  

Black and Blue explores the life of an abused woman who has attempted to disappear with her son in order to escape her abuser husband.  First of all, the book seems to me like a Lifetime Movie, almost cheesy if you will.  Half of the things the main character does, you are screaming at her in your head to not do them.  She is almost like the dumb girl in every horror movie, who runs up the stairs instead of out the door.  

I found all of the characters in the book seem to have much more depth than the protagonist.  While I was rooting for her, it was because she was the victim, not because I actually liked or understood her.  She seemed weak, in that she really didn't do much of anything to help herself or her situation, either everyone else did everything for her, or things just kind of happened. Yes, it took a lot of guts to make that first phone call that was necessary in order for her to leave her husband, however, that was the only thing she ever really did for herself (pick up the phone).  Everything else was done for her, mostly without her knowledge.  She was doing something that was so hard to do, she should have felt like a strong woman to me, but she didn't not in the least and I attribute my feelings to poor character development and the actions as well as the non-actions of the main character. 

One thing that annoyed me was the constant memory descriptions or flashbacks.  While they were integral to the story, they came at the oddest moments.  Sometimes it took you a few seconds to figure out if she was speaking her memory to someone else, if it was actually happening in real time, or it was all in her head.  In the middle of a conversation with someone she would suddenly reel into a 2 or more page memory in her head and then when the memory was over she would go right back into the conversation.  This left me having to go back a few pages to recall what the real-time conversation was even about.  

Overall, the basics of the plot were interesting, as were some of the characters in the book.  The book does make one aware of the dangers of often hidden spousal abuse; however, it was not captivating.  I will not buy, recommend or read this book again.
