I have read a lot better books. A better title for this book would be 'Eminster or Elmara?'. This book reminds me of the famous Ed Wood movie 'Glen or Glenda'. I mean how could you possibly come up with a more stupid idea: The goddess Mystra has to transform him into a women for two purposes. One women can feel magic better than men, at least in this book. Two by transforming Elminster into a women she is hiding him from all those evil magelords who want to kill him. What is interesting about this is even as a women all the magelords still wants to kill her/him because she/he goes around blowing them all up ! Of course thats going to attract unwanted attention. Can you imagine what you enemies an ally's must be thinking. Mystera (Mystra) her/his tutor is suddenly startled in the novel when he turns from being a women into a man. So what does Mystera do? She fall in love with him/her! Now thats logical isn't it ! I don't think the author relizes readers may not have a very pleasent experience undergoing a sex change in the novel. You have any idea what this can do to a person?

 The first part of the novel before Elminister becomes a mage he is a theif. While I did find this very interesting and enjoyable to read I kept asking myself what does this have to do with the title of this book, 'the making of a mage'. The book has a real slow begining he doesn't actually start training to become a mage till your a third of the way through the book already like over 100+ pages !  What is interesting too is Mystra this all powerful goddess of magic selects to endow him with all this powerful magic , because he is the most moral , holy men she has met in a long time and trusts he will not misuse his magic. Really? Him? A career theif? Are you kidding me? This theif is going to be this lands savor ridding the world of all evil ? And all through 100+ pages Elminster swears he hates all magic and magic user and would rather die then become one. What happens when he meets this all powerful Mystra, goddess of magic, that asks him to become a mage? He says oh sure why not I will become a mage. This book although around 300 pages feels more like it is an 800 page book. I mean there are too many things happen in this book for it be 300 pages. 

There is a lot of unnecessary encounters in this book that really didn't seem to flow with the rest of the story. For example he stays at an Inn somewhere in the book and has no money to pay for his stay at the inn. He tells the Innkeeper I will pay you by making any room of the house larger, better, by magical means. So what room does this Innkeeper want to make bigger? His master bedroom? No! His Foyer? NO! His dinning area? NO! His bar area? NO! His kichen? NO! He says he wants a bigger cespit! Which is where all your garbage and sewage goes! I will keep that in mind the next time I want to remodel my house. 

With all this critism there is a reason I am giving this book 2 stars and not 0 stars. There were things I liked about the book. This author is a very descriptive writer and uses a plethera of many descriptive words. While you might need a dictionary on hand it was a lot more descriptive and detailed then I am used to which I did like. I did like a few of the encounters in this book. I enjoyed reading about the Mad Mage and his diabolical plot to destroy Elmara. I enjoyed reading the very detailed magical battle between the mad mage and Elminister.  I enjoyed reading about the Floating tower where Elmara went to retreive Orandals book of magic. At first I didn't like his writing style, but after a while I really enjoyed it. His writing style I found very unique and different then what I am use to. I enjoyed reading how there were many gods and the characters would pray to a certain god to aid them. They would pray to a god to aid them in battle, pray to another god to aid them in magic, pray to another god for healing. There was a god of the wind. A god for  good fortune. I also liked the way he named the different months and seasons in the book. 
