This book is essentially promoting the beliefs and practices of the Pranayama Institute which, at best, sounds like a nonreligious religion, if you ask me.  In fact, proceeds from the book go to the institue and the book encourages its readers to get involved with the Pranayama Institute.  The book is riddled with self-contradiction.  Mr. Saranam chides organized religion while at the same time promoting his own path and the interests of the Pranayama Institue which sounds very much like warmed over Hindu philosophy.  He attacks New Age philosophy but his cyclical theory and techniques sound very New Age.  He attacks organized religion but holds up many very religious figures as examples to follow.  Contradiction is obvious even in the first chapter where his very first technique is to advocate for a "spiritual colloqium"--forming a group to discuss and explore your beliefs and questions.  Isn't that how organized religions usually get started?  He takes a lot of liberty with some scientific discoveries in an attempt to make his techniques sound scientific.  I suspect he's taken liberties with history as well but I'm not much of a historian.  I could go on but those are some of the most obivious problems that I saw.  I'm sure I will be accused of being "biased" and I'm sure I am to a degree.  However, isn't that the way many religions win over converts and curtail critical thinking by accusing them of being biased?  I guess I'm just not evolved enough to understand and accept my chakras, the cyclical theory and God as some electromagnetic field in the center of the universe.  Ironically, after reading this book I stumbled across "Meditation Without Myth" by Daniel Helminiak which does a far better job of positing a sort of secular spirituality without the usual hocus pocus, dogma and wild beliefs associated with organized religion and New Age philosophy.  Helminiak does a far better job suggesting a means to live spiritually with or without a God concept and all the associated dross
