doctrine; but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires; and will turn away their ears from the truth, and will turn aside to myths." 2 Timothy 4:3-4

This verse was written by Paul almost 2000 years ago to warn the Christians to guard their hearts from false teachings that will arise from among the Church. - "and from among your own selves men will arise, speaking preserve things, to draw away their disciples after them." - Acts 20:30-31

  As a servant of the Lord, I feel strongly compelled by His Spirit to warn my fellow Christians of the false doctrine being taught by Tim LaHaye.  This man and his partner are being used by Satan himself to decieve millions of Christians across the nation concerning the truth and the end times of this earth, and this is making me sick.  Tell me why Tim LaHaye, who has never studied theological doctrine or mastered the Bible's teachings, has sold millions upon millions of books regarding prophecy.    The verse that I started with clearly tells us why.  If Tim LaHaye really loves God, than he would respect His Holy Word including God's sacred prophecies.  But instead of writing a book strictly on the Holy prophecies of God to bring Him the glory, Tim chooses to envelop God's sacred prophecies with his fictitious novels known as the Left Behind Series.  Now what were his motives for doing this?  To interpret the scriptures correctly, or to sell millions of novels and receive the wealth and fame for himself? For those of you who read his novels, did you desire to truly know what the Bible says concerning prophecies or did you enjoy having your ears "tickled" by his fanciful writing. "but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires."  

In the past year, a man completed devoted to God, has taken up the monumental task of writing a new book to help clear the confusion behind the modern view of Biblical prophecies.  The book is called End Time Delusions by Steve Wohlberg, and unfortunaley, it is directed at refuting many of the false teachings endorsed by the Left Behind novels.  Mr. Wohlberg has been earnestly studying Biblical prophecies for the past 25 years.  Everything he comments on is strongly supported by the scriptures and he encourages every reader to evaluate the Bible before establishing an opinion.  The book is concise (220 pages), but it is jam-packed with years and years of extensive research.

May the Lord be with you as you continue to search the scriptures for the truth.  "For the truth will set you free!
