Bok begins his book in a manner similar to a historian, revisit antiquity, become oblivious to why it failed to survive said antiquity, and proclaim its fortunes and virtues; however, Bok opens with the rather sheepish statement that colleges never have been overachieving and students never involuntarily choose work.  In short, there was no golden age of collegiate education. 
Bok's writing is a bit of an enigma throughout the book.  One moment he has nothing but praise for modern research in educational methods, the next moment he says the same research is unreliable and colleges should engage in their own self-study and ideological changes.  
Bok does make the rather insightful comment (in any other age I would say painfully obvious ) that if colleges want students to write more eloquently and speak more loquaciously then they should be taught by people who speak and write well.  Put their money where their mouth is so to speak.
Bok proceeds to analyze a smorgasbord of educational methods, the only one of which has any supporting benefits, a study of the great literature of civilization. He quickly dismisses this because he thinks the study is too broad focused. (Bok also thinks knowledge of statistics is more important than reason and causality, a point made painfully clear by his lack of causal understanding throughout the book.)  Bok refuses to mention who educational changes really help, do they help the best students or the worst students?  Who should you help? 
Bok's narrow-mindedness on science is annoyingly deplorable.  At a faculty meeting he stated undergraduate science surveys should allow the understanding of science and nature journals.  A Nobel prize winner in chemistry told him that even he did not understand those journals!
Bok really wants colleges to do more, achieve something; however he refuses to make clear what exact goals a college should have and worse yet, he refuses to acknowledge any attempt to provide a yardstick to measure progress.  In such, he spends the greater part of the book lamenting that colleges need to do something to improve, and once they do the education research will tell them why it worked.
