Even though it was fun to read, I give it one star lest the brainwashed academics out their suffer further undue influence.  This book has been highly misrepresented by evolutionists for decades.  One reviewer made this point but failed to back it up with any facts.  That reviewer failed to point out that it was in the "Descent of Man," not "Origin of the Species" where Darwin first presents man as having descended from apes.

Evolutionists apply natural selection to explain all biological development.  It's the worse case of reductionism in history.  James D. Watson and Edward Wilson were on the Charlie Rose show talking about this book.  They described natural selection as the single great development in science since Newton.  They claimed to describe this book as great English literature yet they badly misrepresented it as teaching that natural selection applies to everything biological.  How could these allegedly great scientists be so unscientific?  Scientists aren't supposed to be cavalier in their judgment.  Scientists are supposed to be conservative in their judgment. 

First of all, let's quote Darwin himself from this book, page 75:  "To suppose that the eye with all its inimitable contrivances for adjusting the focus to different distances, for admitting different amounts of light, and for the correction of spherical and chromatic aberration, could have been formed by natural selection, seems, I freely confess, absurd in the highest degree."  There you have it, from Darwin himself, from his famous book.  Yet, today, textbooks that claim a lineage to Darwin, depict evolutionary trees of everything biological sprouting from natural selection.  Evolutionists like Robert H Hurlbutt, oppose William Paley's design argument because it makes God, not natural selection, the origin of design in the human eye.  See Hurlbutt's book, page 173, "Hume, Newton and the Design Argument."  Watson and Wilson also attacked the human eye argument in an ad hominem way without producing any argument.

But, while Hurlbutt is a typical product of academic brainwashing, which passes for education these days, how could two Nobel Prize winners of science, Watson and Wilson, make such a foolish mistake?  First of all, Watson and Wilson are crooks.  Their Nobel Prize fame for unlocking the secrets of the structure of DNA was illfounded.  Rosalind Franklin of King's college is well known to have discovered the structure of DNA and her supervisor Wilson passed it on to Watson and Crick, who, along with Wilson, took credit for it.  A little research by the Nobel Prize committee would have discovered this.  I guess the Nobel Prize really isn't worth anything when you consider how sloppy they are in giving their awards.  Einstein was given a Nobel Prize even though his papers on Brownian movement are a plagarization of Josiah Willard Gibb's book "Statistical Mechanics."

Concluding unscientific postscript: Could Darwin's "Descent of Man" have psychological origin in the fact that Darwin himself looked like a monkey
