inconsequential jargon

This pseudo-philosophical work is long, insubstantial and boring. The author tries to hide his sterility by avoiding the very basic and fundamental social and human problem, the problem of universal injustice. One wonders why on earth someone should attempt such a work! The title itself betrays the author's philosophical incompetence: "A Theory of Justice." Hasn't he read Plato? Doesn't he realize that justice is not a theory, but in fact practice? What on earth is a theory of justice, which cannot be put to practice? Right at the beginning of his book Rawls insists on a "veil of ignorance" in order to have fairness to start with.; that is plunging into a book, which has nothing give, which can do nothing to change the world we live in. We are not blind. We know too well that there can be no justice in a society whose members are not blind and deaf, and know too well that there are differences separating individuals. How can anyone insist on capitalism, annual growth and availability of goods for all when the world is limited and the earth with its limited natural resources cannot sustain unchecked human growth? And what is more, he can never define what good are, which must be available to everyone. Is raw materialism justice? Are we chickens in a coop, absolutely predictable? The author should have examined the history of philosophy a little more carefully, which is nothing other than a series of failures in putting the cart before the horse, that is theory before practice.  Haven't we learned the lesson from communism and its disastrous results? Marxism too was an elaborate theory, but in reality turned out to be a gross injustice to all. Is the unquestioned democracy the final truth? Before embarking on another long, empty and pretentious "theory" without foundation a thinker should make him/herself well acquainted with human nature. It is too bad that this jargon is often taught at colleges and universities, forcing nave students read this book, discuss it, and even worse, write term-papers on it. For those who wish to have a clear-cut understanding of social problems and a sound theory of justice I recommend Plato's Republic.  Academic jargon is not philosophy.
