	I read this book on the recommendation of two close friends - both of whom are retired English teachers - and both of whom should have known better.  It is one of the most disappointing books I have ever had the misfortune to read.  Although other reviewers have commented on some of the same things, I think the book is so bad they bear repeating.
	The characters are so thinly drawn as to be stick figures.  The ambitious young professional woman, the used-up poet turned to drink, the insecure young wife, and the brother who main functions seem to be the guy who brings the boat and to be the near recipient of a "quickie on the rocks."  Who could possibly care about any of them?  Without anyone to care about, the author has no chance of developing suspense and eliciting an emotional response from her readers. 
	Switching back and forth between two stories in alternating chapters can work as a plot device, but its success depends upon the two stories being brought together in some convincing fashion at the end.  This doesn't happen, and as if that's not enough, the present day chapters are further split by references to the 1873 murder scattered throughout them.  Clumsy and distracting are the best things one can say about the plot development.
	Even though this is a novel, its characters should behave within the scope of believable human actions.  Asking your husband when he first met the woman you suspect he may be having an affair with is believable; asking him the question when you're in the midst of trying to save yourself and family members in a violent storm at sea is not.  There are other examples of forced dialogue, but this is among the most outrageous.
	Lastly, subtlety is obviously not Ms. Shreve's long suit.  The androgynously named child, Billie, is the only one to suffer the consequences of everyone else's failings.  Gee, is this really the death of innocence?  It's about as nuanced as the murderer's ax on Smuttynose.  And how about the danger of  humorless puritans in the face of  real or supposed sexual variations?  Who would have thought it?  
	So why has the book been as popular as it is?  It appeals to the world view of certain young moderns:  Sex is the driving force behind all human actions, the brooding woman is the most fascinating creature in view, and a civility devoid of human feeling is to be prized.    
	The Norwegian characters in the historical murder prompt one last reaction.   In downtown Oslo is the Vigelund Sculpture Park.  It is populated with the large and brooding sculptures of Gustav Vigelund, a local sculptor whose work is appreciated almost nowhere else on earth.  If one spends anytime there, one comes away gloomy, perplexed, and with the certain knowledge that an afternoon has been wasted.  Save yourself the expense of a trip to Norway - read The Weight of Water instead
