When I hear adjectives like absurd and surreal being used to describe an artistic work, I get all happy and excited.  Carroll's my favorite author and Magritte's my favorite painter, so there was no doubt in my mind that I would fall in love with The Trial after the first page or two.  That didn't happen.  No matter...maybe within the first few chapters I'd warm up to the book.  Still didn't happen.  About halfway through I realized I wasn't going to like The Trial at all, but continued to the end anyway so that I might post an informed review of the book right here on amazon.com.

Humor?  Forget about it.  Two laughs at the most.  Kafka appears to have been a depressed, depressed individual.  Now, if you're heavily into pathos and criminal justice, Kafka might be a great author for you, but if you're like me, and looking for the type of absurd that's funny, Carroll's the way to go.

The type of absurd in this book is limited to the dreary kind which lacks any kind of wondrous magic.  The protagonist appears to be so completely apathetic, that when he's killed by court order in the last chapter, a thought hits me - "Here lies a boring man."  I feel that his apathetic attitude didn't contribute much to the book.  Not a good trait to have in a main character.

Since this work was never finished, I don't feel too bad about making editorial comments.  In my opinion chapter 4 and the entire Fraulein Burstner character could be completely removed from the book without affecting anything.  I see nothing but padding as far as these items are concerned.  Perhaps they were meant to be developed more fully, but the author didn't live long enough to complete the task.  I also think chapters 2, 3, 8, and the first part of 7 are in need of severe abridgement.  It shouldn't take two whole pages to say, "This trial thing is getting in the way of the apathetic hero's bank career."

Chapter 9 is by far the best chapter, with an interesting parable about the doors one must enter to access the law.  If you read this chapter alone and skip everything else, you won't miss much.  You might miss a guy in a bullfighter costume in a fragmented chapter somewhere, but that's alright.

I think what Kafka was trying to do was make The Trial as real as possible and, at the same time, make it as weird as possible.  It was an interesting idea, but unfortunately the result turned out to be an Alice in Wonderland without the magic and humor.  Far more dull than I would have ever expected.

Kafka doesn't seem like a bad guy.  He seems nice, and I'm glad a lot of people like his work, but I'd be lying if I said, "Oh yeah, this book was awesome.  I highly recommend it."  It just didn't put a smile on my face, whereas many other books I've read in the past have done just that.

But perhaps I'm not the best person to consult for a review.  Honestly, if the hero were something silly like a giant rooster, I might have given this book five stars
