Another reaction to scholarly works which posit anything contrary to "the truth" contained within the Bible.

Let me quote Carl Sagan (yes, yes, I know that he was a professed atheist, but bear with me here):

"In science it often happens that scientists say, 'You know that's a really good argument; my position is mistaken,' and then they actually change their minds and you never hear that old view from them again. They really do it. It doesn't happen as often as it should, because scientists are human and change is sometimes painful. But it happens every day. I cannot recall the last time something like that happened in politics or religion. [Carl Sagan, 1987 CSICOP keynote address]

What really burns me down about pieces like this is that in the case of belief, there seems to be this imbalance of fact. Not so much that there is an blatant absence of factual, testable evidence that there really was/is a Jesus or God for that matter to begin with, but that when confronted with any actual evidence contrary to these, the problems begin. And the problems are these: even though all of what Christians, Jews, Muslims, Hopi Indians, or whoever is primarily based upon faith and belief, anything contrary or challenging to these must be automatically backed up by extraordinary or incontrovertible evidence.

WHAT? Wait, let me get this straight: You have faith in something that you have little to absolutely no proof of, and yet when scholarly work presents evidence to the contrary of what you believe based upon faith and little to no proof, that scholarly work needs to back up what it has found with mounds of factual, provable evidence? Does anyone else see a problem here?

Look, the FACT of this matter is that until people just get their heads out of their collective rears about their "beliefs" and learn that anything, and I mean ANYthing is vulnerable to being DISproven, and when they decide to OPEN THEIR MINDS to other possibilities, this world will be pretty much the most messed up place ever.  This piece attempts to block that open-mindedness and fails miserably.

Reactionism to anything that threatens a dogma or a belief without incontrovertible or compelling factual evidence is bunk.  Those who write reactionary pieces expect and criticize this from contrary writings.  Why shouldn't they be held to the same standard?  Simply because it is the so-called "Word of God?"  I believe that this God would hold things to a higher standard.

Just because it is written and has been ratified (and edited) by a council which was politically motivated and charged by an emperor to meet his needs and not those of the truth and the people does not make it truth.  And the belief (notice I wrote "belief" and not "fact") that there is no way whatsoever that it can be proven as divinely inspired and that the men (note, no women there) who were charged with ratifying and editing the "Gospels" were lead by the Holy Spirit to do anything.  More likely they were paid very well and got exactly what their leaders desired:  more power and control over the masses, more land and more influence, and finally more wealth so that they could continue to contain the beliefs of the uneducated.  Today we call this "Fascism."  Then it was called "divinely inspired."

And speaking of Fascism, this work is tantamount at an attempt to silence critics of the Bible.  This act, unabated by the Constitution of the United States, would also move well into the realm of Fascist propaganda.  Thank God (?) for men who saw that the tyranny of not only that states but the churches as well should not govern the people.  Now THAT is what I would call "divinely inspired!"

Simply stated:  when reactionary rhetoric can complete a factual, evidential treatise which can counter Biblical criticism, then the masses will listen with a discerning ear and see what is fact and what is fiction (faith?).  Until then nice try....

[...]
