Tao Teh Ching is a monumental work.  Unlike other religious texts, the Tao Teh Ching is barely 5000 letters spread over 81 single-page poetic passages.  You can probably read thru it in a couple hours or less.  But for the serious reader, it can take a lifetime of study and contemplation.  In ancient times, scholars in China and Korea really did spend a lifetime on this one text, not only sudying, but transcribing it, discussing it, and abiding by its tenets in their daily lives.  I've myself pored over it many times in Chinese, Korean and now English, and every time I read it I cannot but be amazed by the wisdom of Lao Tse (or, as some allege, the group of people who contributed to this text).

The problem with English, or I suppose any language not associated with Chinese, is that it is almost impossible to translate Tao Teh Ching with sufficient coherency.  Chinese words are each and all very efficient, in that virtually every single "letter" is replete with meaning.  Therefore, whereas the Chinese may use 10 words to describe something, English might require 10 times that words to adequately translate the meaning.  For example, in the second passage, third stanza, the translated text says, "therefore, the Sage manages his affairs without Ado."  What does "without Ado" mean?  In chinese this is stated in two letters as "Mu Wi" - non-action.  It does not mean to sit back and not participate or instigate any activity.  Rather, "Mu Wi" means doing things in a very natural, spontaneous way that is not forced, does not create conflict and has no secular motives.  As there are no secular motives behind the action, it is as if the Sage does not "act" in the way other poeple act.  His actions are like breathing, and almsot imperceptible; thus it is as if he does not act.  Concepts like "Mu Wi" and "Mu Ji" - non-knowledge - abound in Tao Teh Ching.  These cannot simply be translated away with a couple english words.

In short, a Tao Teh Ching ranslation requires pages and pages of footnotes to accurately reflect the rich meaning behind every passage.  Moreover, many passages can be read in more than one way.  In fact, different translations sometimes say radically different things about the same passage precisely because of this ambiguity.  Any serious translation of Tao Teh Ching should point these out.

Tao Teh Ching is very concise, and written in a poetic style.  But unless you are versed in ancient Chinese language and tomes, you should really consult the literally thousands of guides that scholars wrote over the years to help you read thru the text.  Tao Teh Ching is not some kind of Buddhist sutra that you can just recite over and over without knowing what it means.  It is deeply profound and rich with hidden subtexts.  In China and Korea many of these guides - some of them more than a thousand years old - still survive.  I've yet to find an enligsh guide.  But I am sure they exist.  PLease find them; refrain from reading the translation by itself, for most times all you will see are a jumble of meaningless words
