Having enjoyed Gabaldon's first two books in the series, I had to review this book to say how disappointing and boring this one was. 

The story  sees Claire return to the 18th century after finding out that Jamie is  still alive and takes it from there. We meet all the characters in the  earlier books, Fergus, Jenny, Ian alongwith others - after all, it's  been 20 years. The plot moves along briskly in the 1960s, however once  Claire returns to the past, the story got majorly involved, convoluted and looong! Outlander and DIA were victims of the same kindof bloat, but atleast  they were entertaining. The way the plot moves forward in this  book, and the increasingly crazy situations the characters are put into  had me shaking my head in disbelief - you'd think Claire and Jamie would learn to be more circumspect with age!! Claire has barely been in the past  for a couple of hours, when she's having her bodice ripped by unsavoury  characters and the action continues with no respite (except for them taking time off every couple of pages to have sex *enough already* ). Claire even finds herself saddled with her own 'Typhoid Mary'. I did read on the author's website that she writes  different scenes in the book and then puts the book together and it seems  pretty evident in this one - the dangerous situations faced by the  characters never let up. Additionally, there are so many unnecessary and unexplained  scenes in the book - the one where Jamie suddenly emerges as the  captain of some French troops, etc - and these really bothered me. But to be fair, maybe they were explained, at this point of time I was so bored that I was skipping  through pages just wanting it to get over. And for a story that covers  2 different periods in time, 3 continents, it's such a stretch to find  that Claire and Jamie keep running into EVERY single character time and again. I know they say, it's a small world - but this small is really stretching it. 

Anyway, I think I'm going to read the next one on the series, just because I  already have it waiting for me in the library, but if that doesnt  improve much more then that's it for the Outlander series for me
