The majority of this book was painful to read. I mistakenly assumed that "For Dummies" meant that it was going to cover all aspects for all skill levels. Instead, the author made a point to decide what you are capable of understanding and undertaking. There were "Call a Pro" icons peppered throughout the book indicating that the reader does not have the skill level or the brain power to possibly get his hand around specific tasks. I think that a responsible DIYer has the capability to determine what is and what is not in their skill set. Just because you have never done something does not mean you cannot do it. I have no problems with warnings, but to not share information because the author feels the reader cannot handle it is just poor writing. 

Here is a passage that illustrates the tone of this book (discussing installing sub flooring): 

"You do this by installing blocking between the floor joists from below. If you're not familiar with this type of work, contact a professional to do it right. If you are familiar with it, you'll know what I'm talking about and how to do it correctly." 

If you know how to do it than why are you reading a book on it? Everyone has to start from somewhere - even the pros. I knew nothing about electrical but I can install a new service panel if I needed to now. How? Information and experience - I was not born with the knowledge, neither was the author.

The unsuccessful use of humor in this book only served to clutter the pages and take away any amount of credibility that the author had as a professional. Furthermore, there were several points that I disagreed with him on. For example, he made a point to say DO NOT install your new flooring under the cabinets, instead install around them. His point was that you lose a valuable 1/2" between the countertop and the bottom of your wall cabinets. Forgetting even about aesthetics, have you ever tried to remove a dishwasher that was below your floor level? Trust me - it's no fun. Also, materials such as tile serve to protect the sub floor from water damage (which can happen to anyone). 

This book did have some trivial information that I found interesting (like where the "d" in "10d nails" came from). Other than that, I found it a waste of money. 

Look elsewhere for your kitchen remodeling information needs. 
