Just what we need, more people beside Gee Michael Blakey who love the CIA
and are writing books on the JFK assassination.

I have NEVER written a revue before, but while browsing through the JFK material for a Christmas present for someone, I kept running into somone named Vince "P" (full last name withheld), and his rave revues for this book.  

I don't know this man, but instead of simply using his name, he apparently felt compelled to follow it with some pedigree such as: "Vince P.: Cheerleader, FBI."  Who cares?  Why does he feel he needs to give us his bona fides?  If his opinion is valid, it's valid, whether he worked for the FBI or the Rockettes.  Of course, in Hoover's FBI, both would have been a possibility.  Please, no offense, sir...just joking. 

Mr. P is probably a very decent individual, but I was left with the feeling that, without the tag after his name, he felt no one would take him seriously.  But I digress.

The book's premise is just plain silly.  So the story goes, the CIA has helped hide information on the assassination because it (CIA) liked the Kennedys so much that, it didn't want the world to know that both Kennedys had fostered a plan for a coup in Cuba, because it would show the brothers in a bad light.  Good ol' CIA.

Does anybody believe this?  Does anybody believe that, if something could show the Kennedys in a bad light, the CIA would have covered it up for forty years?  Does the "G" in Michael Blakey's name stand for "Gopher" for the CIA?

I mean, it's not like the CIA hated JFK because he was going to break them into a million pieces or anything...right?

DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS BOOK.  I really had high hopes for it, but both authors went to slavish lengths at every turn, to put the government-especially the CIA and FBI-in a glowing light.  I got the feeling that at any moment they were going to show a doctored photo of J. Edgar Hoover in full football gear, takling a young Crazy Legs Hersh with the caption, "Pug Hoover...the league's best two-way player, leads Saint Mary's U to another victory." 
 
A sickening, fawning valentine to the government.  Spend your money on Dick Russell's, "The man who knew too much," instead.    
