Just as "Origin of Species is misunderstood, I believe "Descent" to be also, although the latter is a more entertaining read.  "Descent" fails to concentrate on man without deviating.  It is a book of observations and study.  It concentrates on how animal life, has, by sexual selection, brought forth the variety in the species we see today, through millions of years.  Darwin covered his beloved pigeons in depth in "Origins" and continues at length on many other bird species in "Descent".  I agree with him that all the different types of birds we see today probably came from one ancestor of the pigeon.  This is called variation of kind.  We see this in just about every living creature and flora.  The problem arises when the next step is taken, the rise of one species turning into another (reptile to bird).  Throughout the book Darwin does admit to this fact, but he still maintains that it must be, with much difficulty.  He does hint to nature having some "power of thought", where does this come from?  How does nature make these choices?  Why did Darwin focus so on the black tribes: their practices, looks, sexuality, if he did not believe them a lower race?  Of course he only hints at this, and his belief of evolving from apes is scant, but obvious.  Does not the use of race to distinguish only separate?  His theory on idiots as somehow lower is also disturbing.  And what of the rudimentary parts and vestigial organs.  As we progress in our scientific study we understand more on their uses, and there may be much we will never understand.  In the end he gives a poor argument, and a convoluted book.

There is no doubt there is a tremendous amount of work that went into his book.  It is a difficult and painful read, although there are many interesting and detailed observations.  One does need to know his enemy.  Darwin is not the originator of "evolution."  There are many who came before him, since the dawn of time.  He was influenced by numerous men of his time, some being more radical.  Darwin was nothing new, he just maid it "hip."  What he started has turned into the secular humanism the world has adopted.  I don't think he meant for this disease to spread like it has.  From his writings I understand him as an agnostic, but doubtful.  I believed he struggled with the possibly of a deist.  It is safe to say it was his only ambition till his dying day to prove "evolution" as proof of our existence.  What of the missing fossil record?, he new they would be found.  He was a confusing man.
 
150 years later and there still has been no intermediate fossils found to prove the case.  In fact we are discovering more that validates creation. 

Why don't we see a scale or a feather erupt occasionally on man?  Is it because it is not in our DNA, and never was?

The theory of evolution caused Darwin to loose his faith and his experience has been repeated in countless lives.  Evolution is an acid that eats away at the mind, a cancer. 

One only needs to open the pages to Michael Behe's book, "Darwin's Black Box", to understand the futility of the evolutionary theory.  The engines of life at the molecular level are so complex that there leaves no other possibility than a creator of the universe.  There should be no excuse.

Wish you well
Scott  
