Jill McCorkle seems to be trying too hard to be unique and quirky just for the sake of being "original." I was attracted to this book because I like fiction written from the point of view of many characters, but "Carolina Moon" was an amalgam of too many different styles that just wouldn't blend. We have letters, we have third person narration, and we have first person narration in the form of an annoying young woman talking to a tape recorder diary. Too much.

This last narration bothered me because the woman didn't sound like she was talking to a tape recorder - the voice sounds more like a written voice. For example, she barely distinguishes who's speaking, which is fine on the page where you can see indents and paragraphs and quotation marks, but as a spoken voice it didn't work. She didn't sound like a real person. The point of having someone tell his or her story through a tape recorder diary is to capture his/her voice more naturally. McCorkle just tells the story this way because it's "neat." The character doesn't sound any different from any of the other characters - and her story is pointless and contributes nothing to the plot or sublot or second subplot.

Quee was just plain annoying. She's an old, quirky prostitute medicine woman who collects pictures of people she doesn't know and makes stories up about them. She was quirky and had a quirky perspective on morals, so we're supposed to like her. I hated her. I'm tired of fiction about crazy, quirky people trying to force their agendas down our throats. The best novel I've read about a quirky person was "A Separate Peace" because the narrator in that novel gets just as annoyed at the quirky character as the reader. (And he pushes him out of a tree.) Read that book instead.

I think McCorkle may just have been suffering from some quirkiness herself when she wrote this book. The characters are flat and uninteresting, and the stories are bland. There's no reason for the unnamed woman to drop letters to her dead lover in the mailbox except to advance the story. And the only purpose the mailman has is to read the letters to us. The characters are more like the author's pawns than real people. The book didn't really seem to be about anything, and the ending was unbelievable (in a bad way, not a good way). I was surprised because McCorkle is usually a very good character writer. Her short story "Intervention" is a marvelous story about a woman torn between her alcoholic husband and her children, who wish to have an intervention. Great character in that story. I'd recommend reading McCorkle's short stories instead of "Carolina Moon."
