There is frankly no 'truth' to be found in this publication.  Aside from the previously circulated speculation regarding Hillary Clinton's political aspirations and orentation, her knowledge of and duplicity inside the Lewinsky affair, and her march to the Senate, this work is void of anything but base conjecture and one-sided analyses which offer no depth and villify the women's movement in 21st century America at large.

I had the double misfortune of perusing this volume via CD.  The material is made far less credible by Mr. Klein's own wheezy and wet-sounding reading of his work.  I address this first because I am part of a large number of technoservants who spend 8-10 hours per day with no diversions during a monotonous coding job but for headphones, and I want explicitly to warn any readers from the audio version of this work.  It begins with an inane and unintentionally ridiculous buzzing sound from somewhere at the top of Klein's palate and carries on with sardonic emphasis placed on repeated terms such as:  'lesbianism', 'leftist' and 'aspiration'.  Spaced at roughly equal intervals (making one further question the very validity of research), Klein gleefully quotes Mr. and Mrs. Clinton, their aides and supporters, and the altogether too-rare addition of Clinton apoligists in making vulgar statements.  A professional narrator understands the proper treatment of the profanity that occurs (and is only attributed to the Clinton camp) in situations such as this, and Klein clearly does not.  Klein's very decision to narrate his own narrative is a poor one, and further displays the partisanship that he clearly wishes to convey with every written word of it.

As to the substance, and contrary to the title, there are no revelations about Mrs. Clinton contained anywhere within this narrative.  And I sincerely mean that - Klein has acheived no investigative credibility in simply regurgitating what is already known about the Senator.  The speculations regarding her sexuality (or, as Klein would argue, her very lack thereof), her role in Mr. Clinton's sexual escapades and the Lewinsky affair, and the politicking that took place in New York are either matters of public record or outright conjecture that would make Kenneth Starr look like a law-and-order hawk.  

With reference to what the title leads the casual browser to believe is the centerstone of the book (what she knew about the Lewinsky affair), Klein does nothing but recirculate rumors and ideas that any half-informed person has already heard:  that Hillary knew about Bill's affair with Monica, that she did nothing to stop it, and even that she was reponsible (!!!) for it because it was her connections that lead to Lewinsky's entrance to the White House.  There is a contradictory juxtaposition here - Klein leads the reader on into this affair shortly after explaining that a young Hillary Rodham launched a verbal tirade against harrassment of interns while an intern herself.  Klein mistakenly presumes that everyone will nod at his faulty logic (that Hillary became the enabler of a concept she defames), yet it actually illustrates that Hillary is what she claims to be:  her own woman, independent of Bill himself.

As a disclaimer, I do not support Hillary Clinton.  I believe that she is a disengenuous person, willing to sacrifice her own rather confrontational ideas in favor of pursuit of public office.  But Klein makes this argument foolish.  His barely disguised anymosity for the Democratic party at large and his not-at-all disguised disdain for feminism which borders on outright sexism within this very narrative (he frequently charactarizes Hillary's crowd as a group of butch supporters of what HE has dubbed 'lesbianism') is nothing short of inane.  This narrative is poorly organized, and the silly quips with which he ends each of the far too numerous 'chapters' are representative of, well, nothing at all.  Possibly the saddest commentary I can offer is that this narrative is wrought with inconsitency on both an intellectual and factual level (as Klein altogether too often relies on sources who 'jumped ship' from the Clinton camp and he treats his conjecture as actual evidence, often citing 'facts' that are no more than his own speculation of Hillary's mindset), and has no organization to fall back on except the aforementioned large number of 'chapters'.  This work just rambles on and on while saying, well, nothing.  Finally, readers may chuckle to see that Klein has printed a number of glaring grammatical errors:  at one point he says that Hillary wore contact lenses that make her eyes 'bluer'.

In summation, this work needs to carry the disclaimer:  "Paid for by the Republican National Commitee" in exactly the same way the Michael Moore's "Faranheit:  911" needed a discalimer for the Democratic party.  That way the casual browser or, in my case, the frankly interested citizen preparing to make voting decisions for the 2008 primaries would just keep browsing.  There is nothing in Klein's work that suggests any effort on his part to search for the 'truth' he erroneously claims to offer; only the 'cut-and-paste' [...
