C. S. Lewis exposed the circular reasoning in Hume in the book "Miracles."  David Hume was not a skeptic.  He was a freemason and therefore a gnostic.  He was only skeptical of nongnostic positions, such as Christianity.  He was an apologist for gnosticism.  He had blind faith allegiance to the masonic lodge and its creed.

His argument against miracles is his chief argument against Christianity, and it suffers from circular reasoning.  Circular reasoning you exclaim?  Yes.  Hume argued that miracles violate uniform experience.  However, if uniform experience is against mircales, then they cannot happen.  Uniform experience is his presupposition.  But, uniform experience is defined to exclude miracles.  If they didn't happen, well, they didn't happen.  This begs the question.  I have a better argument than Lewis's.  I would simply point out that pure logic cannot dispense with the empirical question of whether miracles happen.  Afterall, mathematics is made up of tautologies.  As such, mathematics or logic or any formal reasoning cannot have physical meaning.  Pure logic, as Hume employs, cannot tell us anything about the world.  Therein lies the sophistry.  It boils down to the distinction between analytic statements and synthetic statements.  Whether or not miracles happen depends not on logic, but on the existence of God who intervenes in human affairs.  As the former atheist Antony Flew said, it is impossible to argue against the existence of God in light of the evidence of intelligent design of the universe.

If anyone went to the moon and found a house there that supplied oxygen, food and other human necessities, they wouldn't hesitate to posit a creator of that house.  So why would anyone question the existence of God in light of this wonderful planet that supports our lives?

What is remarkable about him is how irrational he is.  He possesses a flair for writing and shows great promise in reasoning.  Yet, he sacrifices good reasoning for pushing his gnostic agenda.  It's like a person who graduates from medical school who decides to murder patients, or a graduate from law school who chooses to rob banks.  He tries to use reasoning to support irrational thought.  Hume was a strange man.  The engine is running, but there's no one behind the wheel. 
