This novel is narrated by a senior at an exclusive boys' boarding school, portrayed as the type of place where all of the students are hiding their true selves.  Those who are wealthy try desperately to hide that fact, and those who are on scholarship, as is the narrator, try even harder to hide their heritage.  As this story is told from the point of view of one character, it is impossible to determine if this is actually true, or if his fear of being exposed as a fraud clouds his vision of everyone else.  It is hard for me to believe that these boys are so disconnected from each other.  According to the narrator, nobody is really friends with anybody else, despite the fact that they have been living with each other for so many years.  No student has any real relationship with any other student.

What is real, is literature.  Writers are artists, who form their own social club and are therefore able to escape the boxes into which their heritage has forced them.  It seems every boy at school aspires to write, and once every semester the class is rewarded with a visit from a famous author.  These visits are paired with writing contests, in which boys submit a piece of writing in the style of the famous author.  The student whose writing is chosen by the visiting author is rewarded with a private audience with him or her--an unbelievable honor for the student.  The narrator of the book is desperate for one of these audiences, and devastated when his opportunity to interact with Robert Frost and Ayn Rand passes him by.  When he finds that Ernest Hemingway is to be the next visiting author, he is willing to do anything, even plagiarize a story he comes across in a literary magazine, to meet the famous man.

Some of the parts of this story are interesting, especially those focused on the visiting authors.  I particularly liked the passages about Ayn Rand and was delighted when a boy asked her, quite seriously, "Who is John Galt?" and received nothing but looks of utter loathing in response.

I also liked the responses of the authors to the works of the students.  The boys submitted very earnest bits of poetry or fiction that were terribly misinterpreted by the authors who judged them and read much more into them than the boys had ever anticipated or expected.

However, I didn't really connect with any of the characters, perhaps because the narrator of the story never got close to anyone.  He talks about his roommate and how the two of them lived together for years and kept seeming like they might become friends, but it never really happened.  In fact, the narrator, although friendly with many, seems to have no actual friends.  There is only one girl who might be a love interest in the story, but the narrator also has only minimal feelings for her.  In the end, this lack of interest for anyone in the story left me feeling rather uninterested in everything, as well.
