Bernard Lewis is a historian of the Ottoman era.  Period.  He sets himself up as an expert on Arabs and the modern Middle East, which is preposterous.  He does not know Arabic and certainly does not routinely converse with modern Arabs, in all of their many countries.  He uses terms like Unbelievers, which insults Westerners, when Muslims never do and never would -- that term is used by extremists whose mentality is much like that of our White Aryans.  And just about as representative.  In everything he writes, Lewis harps on the House of War and House of Peace, an idea one thousand years out of date.  That was Crusader-era thinking, which was outrageous and should embarrass both sides today.
The problem is not religion, it is political policies, and long digressions into Crusader and post-Crusader history do not shed insight into beliefs and resentments today.  He uses broad terms like "Muslim rage" -- all Muslims?  Certainly not.  Consider his assertion that it is an intolerable humiliation for Muslims to be taught by Unbelievers -- does that make sense?  With the thousands of Muslims who are being, and have been, educated in the West?  Who hire Western advisors?
"What went wrong?"  Western intrusion into the Middle East region, that's what.  Today most vividly illustrated by Israel and Iraq, and shoring up corrupt regimes like the Saudis (who are no friends of America and promote their exclusivist religion to our detriment).  But to admit political issues is to bring up the too-painful possibility of reviewing America's policies, so Lewis et al. harp on religion (are 5 million Muslims in America motivated to hurt anybody? They are in every city and town.  Do they hate America and or non-Muslims?  Try asking them, because Lewis certainly has not).  
Lewis has done immeasurable damage to the image of Muslims and Middle Easterners, and fostered much hatred based on his reckless statements.  This is the EXPERT who advised the Bush White House and encouraged the neocon insanity to go about happily creating democracies in the Middle East which would then lead to love all around...  easy success in Iraq would be just the beginning of this miracle.  On this rests his credibility
