Sharpen Your Tactics! presents a diagrammed position from 1125 games and studies, each with a tactical device ready to be unleashed. Occasionally the solutions include one or two brief variations. The diagrams are rated in difficulty from one-star (easiest) to four-star (hardest).  The problems are excellent, but the book has major problems and needs revision.

Many of the exercises, perhaps 70% of them, appear in the Convekta chess tactics programs: Chess Tactics for Beginners, Chess Tactics for Intermediate Players, and Chess Tactics Art 3.0. If you use those programs, this book feels redundant. 

Just like the Convekta programs, this book splits many combinations into parts. First, they give you a diagram that asks for the final move of, say, a three-move combination. Then, maybe four pages later, they give you a diagram that asks for all three moves of the same combination. Your chances of getting it right are increased from your earlier experience.  I like this touch. 

As I was checking the solutions, something seemed amiss, and I started giving them to Fritz.  Over the course of a year, I found 16 clear errors out of about 150 positions checked.  It seems a likely conjecture, then, that perhaps 10% of the alleged solutions are flawed.  I am talking about very serious flaws, too, where the defending side can hold against the recommended moves.  Rechecking the solutions on Fritz is a ton of work.  We should not have to do it. The publisher and authors should computer-check everything and issue a revised edition. 

I purchased Sharpen Your Tactics! two years ago, and it is falling apart. The cover is off and many pages have come loose.  I hold the book together with rubber bands. (Apparently the success of Reinfeld has given publishers the evil idea that an exercise book sells more copies if it falls apart.)  The paper is cheap, the diagrams fuzzy.  It is hard on the eyes. 

Aside from a brief introduction, Sharpen Your Tactics! has no words.  In contrast, Alburt (Chess Tactics for the Tournament Player) gives nice definitions of diversion, decoy, skewer, etc., and comments on the solutions.  Moreover, John Nunn, in Nunn's Puzzle Book, gives you verbal setups, hints, and crystal-clear explanations of every solution. Regrettably, Sharpen Your Tactics! gives no verbal explanations of anything.  This silence diminishes the value of the exercises.  Many times I could not understand why the tactic worked until I set it up on Fritz and played through some side variations.  This takes time and effort and should have been included in the price of the book.

The best thing about Sharpen Your Tactics! is its selections: these examples are remarkably similar to what we see in tournament games. This makes it different from Reinfeld, for example, who gives many "beginner positions" where one side has all his pieces developed and the other side has made only pawn moves, producing at best a patzer's wizardry useful only against the neighbor who learned how the pieces move last Tuesday. Most of the positions in Sharpen Your Tactics! are from actual tournament games between titled players. The remaining positions are well-selected studies that have obvious practical application.

Furthermore, the progression of problems is extraordinarily well thought-out.  With helpful sequencing, the exercises steadily deepen your handling of the pieces, as you learn step-by-step how knights on outpost squares so easily generate forks, how rooks on the seventh rank threaten everything, how queens become monsters when they are centralized, and even how tactics help you win a variety of practical endgames.  When you do such a fine sequence of problems, you feel as if you are not simply learning tactics but actually taking a chess course.

In light of how similar the selections are to the Convekta programs, one wonders if they are both borrowed from some standard work available in Russian.  Although the problems have no labels by topic, you can deduce a series of topics: near the beginning you go through winning a queen, then winning a rook, winning a knight, winning a bishop, and finally winning a pawn.  Then you go through knight checkmates, bishop checkmates, rook checkmates, queen checkmates, and pawn checkmates.  Next you get a set of drawing combinations.  Then you get a series of the best combinations of each year starting from about 1860 and continuing to the late twentieth century.  Then you get a number of attacks on the uncastled king, then attacks on the queenside castled position, then attacks on the kingside castled position.  The book concludes with many problems where you sacrifice material to destroy the pawn protection around the enemy king and deliver checkmate.

That same progression of topics, with many of the same positions, appears in the Convekta programs Chess Tactics for Beginners, Chess Tactics for Intermediate Players, Chess Tactics Art 3.0.  Yet in Sharpen Your Tactics! these topics go unlabeled, perhaps because it is cheaper to produce the book that way.  With its poor binding, its unchecked solutions, its cheap paper, etc., this book virtually screams out, "We made it on the cheap!"

In sum, Sharpen Your Tactics! has outstanding selections, but nothing is explained, the pages fall out of the book, the diagrams are unclear, the paper is cheap, the themes are unlabeled, and about 10% of the "solutions" are wrong.

To judge Sharpen Your Tactics! in perspective, we might compare it to perhaps the best tactics exercise book available in English: NUNN'S PUZZLE BOOK from Gambit, the only chess publisher run entirely by Grandmasters.  It also has good selections, but every solution is clearly explained, its binding is strong and attractive, its paper is high-quality, its print and diagrams are crystal-clear, and its solutions are computer-checked.  Nunn's Puzzle Book sets a high standard that Sharpen Your Tactics! fails to meet.

So may we respectfully suggest a revised edition of Sharpen Your Tactics!  Let us see computer-checked solutions, a strong and attractive binding, higher-quality paper, clearer print and diagrams, and explanations of the solutions.  These welcome improvements would bring Sharpen Your Tactics! up to standard, making it a truly superb tactics exercise book
