"Tribulation Force" is not as good as the first book in the "Left Behind" series.  The authors seem to be doing so much maneuvering to get their characters into the right crucial positions around the Antichrist, that there's almost no time left for the story. 

I was amused by the authors' description of the Two Witnesses and their miraculous protection by God.  If God could do that sort of miracle, why hasn't he been doing it all along?  A few incidents of such miraculous protection of missionaries would have sufficed to convert millions in countries like China and Japan, not to mention unbelievers in the U.S. Instead, missionaries sent to non-Christian nations have routinely been killed or expelled.  Why would God permit such a thing?  Does He want people to go to Hell?

Rabbi Ben-Judah's speech in "Tribulation Force" about how he's changed his mind and decided that Christ is in fact the Messiah struck me as absurd.  The Bible prophecy that "a virgin shall conceive and bear a Son" does not even appear in the original Hebrew of the Old Testament. The Hebrew word translated as "virgin" would be more correctly translated into English as "young woman."  "Virgin" is nothing more than an ancient mistranslation that has been copied and recopied over the centuries.  As for the rest of the 109 prophecies that the Rabbi claims were fulfilled by Christ, to say that Jesus Christ is the only person who could fulfill them is silly. Most of the Biblical prophecies of the Messiah are vague; with many, it's hard to say whether they even deal with the Messiah or not.  The Book of Isaiah has many of these prophecies, and it can be mighty obscure.  As we have very little solid evidence for Jesus' actual life history, it's very difficult to know if he actually fulfilled any prophecies. Certainly his followers wanted to think he did, and accounts written by his followers are the only ones we have.  The power of wishful thinking is often underestimated, in my opinion.  

The "Left Behind" series takes prophecy in general much too seriously.  The Book of Revelations is essentially a collection of predictions, mostly of disasters, worded in highly symbolic language. This is the same trick that Nostradamus used in his prophecies. Since the language is so symbolic, the predictions can be applied to nearly anything. Wait long enough and bad things are, of course, sure to happen. Vague disaster predictions therefore tend to come true all the time. Since the day Revelations was written, people have popped up constantly claiming that now, at last, the predicted events are all happening, and Christ's kingdom is at hand. Is the Rapture coming this time? I don't think so. Are we likely to have some bad times ahead? Yes, but not because God planned it that way. It is humans who are now causing the biggest disasters.

As an atheist, I find the fundamentalist brand of Christianity, which loves to focus on the Rapture, even less appealing than the more ordinary kind. Fundamentalists seem to assume that "God will provide" and that we don't need to think about humanity's future. 

If Christianity really worked to make bad people good and good people better, I would be the first to sign up. If Christianity was an effective way to relieve poverty and bring peace, I would definitely consider it. If Christianity were just a silly hobby that made people feel good and harmed no one, it wouldn't bother me. Unfortunately, that isn't what I see. Even when in power, Christianity has made little or no progress in solving the social problems that it deals with, such as poverty and violence. Christianity systematically ignores the most serious problems of our times: overpopulation, exhaustion of resources, and pollution, among others. Why does Christianity ignore these problems? Because they receive little or no attention in the Bible, a book written thousands of years ago. 

If you are inclined to believe in the Rapture, I beg you to at least consider some contrary viewpoints. Christ said He would come as a thief in the night. Consider the possibility that He might not come for 500 more years, or 1000. Remember the parable of the talents. Do you want to face Him having ruined the planet He gave us to live on? As far as other fiction, I would suggest Heinlein's book "Job: A Comedy of Justice," which takes belief in the Rapture to its logical conclusion. 
