"The Third Millennium" can only be described as a monumental event in the annals of crud.  On a literary level, this puppy manages to be even worse than the Left Behind books.  As "Left Behind" was one of the most purely awful bricks ever foisted on the book-buying public, that's no mean feat, but undeniably Paul Meier has accomplished it.  All I can say is that "The Third Millennium" is the worst children's book I've ever read.  I label it a children's book precisely because it's written for children.  Characters are cardboard, personalities are told rather than shown, and nearly identical sentences are repeated over and over.  Reading Meier is like reading stories by fifth graders; he knows the rules of the English language but can't grasp how to write effective sentences:

"Even though he congratulated himself on being an avant-garde psychiatrist, Larry couldn't supress a conservatism that more than occasionally popped out.  His religious Jewsih ancestors had made their indelible mark, which was reflected in the white trim on his gray house.  Knowing that he could close the shutters anytime he liked similarly comforted him."

(How many times did you have to read that final sentence before you understood it?)

"The Third Millennium" follows the standard formula of Christian potboilers.  A middle class family is minding its own business when suddenly neighbors get raptured, Israel is attacked for no reason, and the United States renames itself "the New Roman Empire".  The President does suspiciously anti-Christian things, such as defending the right to privacy and balancing the federal budget.  He also announces a plan to implant credit card numbers in everyone's right hand, and invites people to share their comments by dialing 1-800-666-6666.  (No, I'm not making this stuff up.)  Of course there are long chapters of folks reading the Bible and no shortage of instantaneous conversion scenes worthy of Chick tracts.  For the most part, however, the main characters do nothing but sit around watching TV until almost the end of the book.  Continuity also slips.  Leading man Larry Feinberg is first described as a psychiatrist but later as a physician.  His son Ben starts out as a medical student but later we're told that he's a math major.  Ben's girlfriend Cindy is supposedly blind, but that doesn't stop her from seeing a hippy-like classmate who turns out to be an angel.

Of course complaints like these miss the point, as even fans of "The Third Millennium" admit that the writing is pretty nasty.  The appeal lies in the supposed fact that this stuff is all biblically kosher and will be coming true any minute now.  In fact Meier tacks on an Acknowledgment section where he congratulates himself for his "compulsive quest for accuracy and feasibility".  Hmmm, let's see here.  Meier has Jews performing animal sacrifices in Jerusalem, apparently unaware that even the Orthodox halted ritual sacrifice centuries ago.  He mentions "the ancient Muslim Empire of Babylon"; Babylon came and went thousands of years before the founding of Islam.  One character claims that Hitler started the extermination of the Jews on 1942 on Av 9 (Av is a month in the Jewish calendar).  Unfortunately for him, the Holocaust actually started years earlier, in 1939.

Then there's the prophecies.  Practically half the book is devoted to having a dude named Jimmy lecture us on how many biblical prophecies have come true.  (The fact that Jimmy is a used car salesman, a profession not known for honesty, makes this unintentionally apt.)  Debunking every claim in the book would frankly tax my patience and exceed amazon's 1,000 word limit, but I'll give a small sample.  Consider this from page 79:

"Turn to Ezekiel 4:4-6 and note what God had the prophet do.  He lay on his side for 430 days to signify that Israel would be in another exile for 430 years. ... Because of their lack of repentance, their punishment was multiplied sevenfold, as Moses had warned it would be in the Torah in Leviticus 26.  Sounds strange until you add it to 536 B.C.  I'm going to translate this into the modern calendar.  Anybody recognize the significance of this date?  May 14, 1948, the date modern Israel was founded."

Let's see here.  The number of years between 536 B.C. and 1948 A.D. is 536+1948=2484.  On the other hand, a 430 year punishment multiplied by seven is 7*430=2910.  Now I think 2484 is not the same number as 2910, unless conservatives have decided to replace math with 'intelligent arithmetic'.  I would submit that most of Meier's other claims fall apart in a similar manner.

To give credit where credit is due, Meier's predictions are not totally off the mark.  Describing the President of the United States, he says the following: "There were no restraints on his pursuit of his own ends."  If that doesn't perfectly capture the attitude of our current chief executive, I don't know what does.  Other than that, however, Meier's attempt to fortell the future seems to have hit a bum steer.  How it is that garbage like this hogs the spotlight while great Christian authors such as R. A. Lafferty and Gene Wolfe languish in obscurity, I don't know
