The oral history approach by Ambrose & Co offers certainly has its attraction. And if this book would have consisted of personal accounts of D-Day veterans only, I think it would have made a valuable, insightful, and memorable account of this landmark battle. 

Unfortunately, the author did not leave it at that but felt the need to present his own, highly biased and overly patriottic views on the various aspects of the battle. The message that is spelled out again and again, in capitals, is that only the American troops and their commanders showed excellence in planning and carrying out the battle. Their allies, in particular the British, receive considerably less credit or even scorn. For example, the book ridicules the supposed British craze for "gadgets", such as their mini-submarines and special tanks, which they nonetheless used very effectively on D-day. 

But what really annoys me is the personal "battle" that Ambrose seems to be fighting with the long-beaten German foe: all the decisions they took on D-day were wrong in his opinion, they responded way too late or not at all, they failed to foresee the invasion, their command structure was inadequate, their navy did not intercept the fleet "which nobody could understand", etc. etc. The truth is that by june 1944 the Germans simply did not have the resources to fight an agressive and intelligent counter-battle on the Western front anymore. I find it disappointing, a little cheap and certainly inappropriate for a scholarly historian to keep on criticizing the past performance of an enemy with the comforts of hindsight and imaginary resources. (Even more so as the included number of German combattants' accounts in this book is less than a handful.) 

By the end of this book, I was thoroughly fed up with the hollow rhetorics and "easy" truths like "The Wehrmacht's many mistakes [on D-day] were exceeded by those of the Luftwaffe, which was quite simply just not there" (ch 32). Perhaps this style is what it takes to write a bestseller, but "D Day: June 6, 1944" fails as a military history book.
