I read this in passing at the new San Jose Main Public Library the other day.
These coauthors' writing is as harsh as Ann Coulter's but of an opposite persuasion.  However, their use of citations and supporting documentation is lacking.  It is mostly up to the reader to guess which points are supported by which references in the bibliography.  There are no footnotes, just mere page number references.  A great number of references are simply for the sprinklings of quotations used.  The fact, that Alterman and Green are employed by any journal, is chilling and an insult for that employer.
Alterman, intending to attack "neocons," uses an example of voter intimidation in places like Baltimore where the "Get out the Vote" advertisments also say "...and take care of your oustanding warrants, overdue rent, etc..."  Another example is one that persuades people to show up at the polls days after election day.  [Incidentally, the book's issues like this are debatably related to the topic of President Bush...]
So much for the idea of a "well-informed electorate!"
Such voter intimidation is not just sad but almost laughable.
First, does anyone want to admit depending on a voter base of individuals who fall for intimidation like this?  This was an insult to liberal causes!  To think this was a great book, you too would probably fall for voter intimidations like these examples given by Alterman and Green.
Second, are these guys trying to tell us that a qualification, to be considered a minority, consists of being duped by garbage like this?  What an insult to minorities!
Third, if these guys are responsible journalists, can they report on anybody of their own polity that might be doing something about the state of the electorate's information?

While Alterman and Green make this point on their own voter base being so inadequate with any base of knowledge, they are trying to make a point, by begging the question from the first page, that President Bush himself has a very inadequate base of knowledge.  Worse yet, Alterman and Green propose that a bad state of knowledge is further demonstrated by President Bush's tendency to ask "stupid" questions.  Perhaps all readers should reflect on whether it is better to have stupid questions asked than to have stupid results occur when nobody has the courage to ask stupid questions.  And back to the concept of a "well-informed electorate," real education begins with real questions.  It is too bad that Alterman and Green have evidently been too proud to ask any questions, starting with "Why did so and so ask such and such question?" instead of jumping to their conclusions.

Another example of Alterman and Green's points is that President Bush's tendency to leave the "details" to others is a weakness.  It would have been more useful to their point to expound on how this balances one's own core competencies with those of others.  It's an effective corporate strategy.  Maybe journalists know nothing about that.

Alterman and Green's publication is a strike out for journalism.
If you are a proponent of progressiveness or of the idea of a "well-informed electorate," this book does not help either of these causes
