In his last book, Andrew (Andy) Hargreaves takes us through the dark alley of modern education. At the end of the alley, shines his promised land of Marxism. Hargreaves political views are cleverly disguised, but still obvious. He never speaks of a Marxist society, but instead uses jargons such as "beyond the knowledge society", "social mission" and "cosmopolitan identity".

The kowledge society and related terms, such as knowledge worker and knowledge economy, were created by Peter F. Drucker and appeared in his 1969 book "The Age of Discontinuity". In his 1999 book "Management Challenges for the 21st Century", Drucker has following to say:

"Knowledge workers are rapidly becoming the largest single group in workforce of every developed country. They may already comprise two-fifths of the U.S. workforce - and a still smaller but rapidly growing proportion of the workforce of all other developed countries. It is on their productivity, above all, that the future prosperity and indeed the future survival of the developed economies will increasingly depend." (page.141).

Drucker is absolutely right, that the knowledge society aready exists, but Hargreaves eyes are focused on the society beyond, which in his opinion clearly belongs to the Marxist ideology. Following quotations make this abuntantly clear:

"Teaching beyond the knowledge society means developing a cosmopolitan identity that can build chains of caring for those who are out of sight but should never be out of mind." (page.48).

"Teaching exclusively beyond the knowledge society cultivates caring, develops character and builds cosmopolitan identity." (page.52).

"We have seen that standardized educational reform has made it almost impossible for many teachers to teach either for the knowledge society or beyond it as part of a broader social mission." (page.162).

What is the social mission of the teaching profession ? Hargreaves emphasizes this aspect of teaching:

"Teachers and others must now dedicate themselves to bringing together these two missions of teaching for the knowledge society and beyond it - making it the pinnacle of their professional purpose." (page.52).

"The standardized reforms of Ontario education offer only disincentives and discouragement to those who see their work as being about teaching beyond the knowledge economy and about creating values for good. They are squeezing the social mission out of teaching." (page.96).

As previously noted, one of the expressions that Hargreaves uses instead of Marxism is "cosmopolitan identity". In true Marxistic fashion, he keeps on striking the hot iron:

"This is what teaching beyond the knowledge society must address: developing cosmopolitan identity and humanitarian responsibility at home as well as abroad." (page.35).

"Teachers and others, therefore, must think not only of how to teach for the knowledge society, but also of how to teach beyond it, so we address other compelling human values and educational purposes in addition to those that make a profit - purposes concerned with character, community, democracy and cosmopolitan identity." (page.43).

It is disturbing, that Hargreaves goes so far out on the Marxist limb, that his book is more of a political declaration, than an analysis of education. I believe that John Locke (1632-1704), Auguste Comte (1798-1857) and John Dewey (1859-1952) would have agreed with me.
