The main thing that strikes me when I read this story is that there are TOO MANY PLACES WHERE THE NAME "MARY" HAS BEEN SUBSTITUTED FOR THE NAME "JESUS".  When I read the book,
I'd come to a quote about Mary and think, "Huh, in the Bible, that same thought is actually attributed to Christ."
Well, you might be thinking, of course Jesus and Mary would profess the same things.  I think a few examples
will help though. Remember, if the Devil can take FOCUS away from the Savior, he's won a major battle. 
Wars are made up of many battles.

Some guiding thoughts. (Never be guided by Mike's thoughts or anyone else's.  As a matter of
fact, everything that comes out of my mouth, or is put down on paper, could be in error.  Use
the Scripture as your reference! I'm a sinner and subject to all of the associated inadequacies.
Know ALL of the Scripture, because many people will play games with pulling things out of context.)

1John 4:1 "Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God;
because many false prophets have gone out into the world."

Matthew 24: 23-24 "Then if anyone says to you, 'Behold, here is the Christ,' or 'There He is, do not
believe him. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders, so as to
mislead, if possible, even the ELECT."

Examples


Page 15.  Mirjana:   "..she is the mother of our Eternal Life.  She wants each of us--the children Jesus gave her from the Cross--in Heaven with Him."

Our eternal life doesn't have a "mother".  It has a "father".  She may want us in heaven with Jesus, but Jesus
did not give us to "her" from the Cross.  He bore our sins so that we could be blameless in the sight of God.
His reference in John 19:27 "Behold your mother." was a request to have his mother attended to.  Matthew 12:47
says "Behold, your mother and Your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak to you. But He answered
the one who was telling Him and said, "Who is My mother and who are My brothers?" and stretching out His hand
toward His disciples, He said, "Behold, My mother and My brothers."

P 31. Mirjana:  "Jesus is the way to Heaven, whether people know Him by name or not.  Those who walk with
Mary on the path of Jesus' life, have life with God."

Those who walk with Jesus by NAME ONLY have life with God.  Whether Mary holds their hand is irrelevant.

P31. Mirjana:  "She, the mother of Jesus, would like to have this same relationship with every person on earth."

Jesus wants to have a relationship with everyone.  Have it with him first.  All Christian denominations profess
a "relationship" with Christ as the differentiating factor between being a Christian versus being of a certain 
"religion".

P26.  Mirjana:  When asked her favorite prayer, "Yes, the Hail Holy Queen."

Matthew 6:9: Jesus said "Pray, then, in this way: 'Our Father who art in heaven, Hallowed be Thy name."  
You know the rest.

P52. Vicka: "What role does Mary play?", "Mary, the mother of all, brings her children to her Son who takes
them to the Father."

Granted, Jesus brings you to the Father.  But once again, Mary does NOT bring you to Him.  Jesus brings you
to himself. Nowhere in any of the teachings of the Bible does anybody ever say that the path to Jesus is through
Mary. 2Timothy 1:8-9. (too long to write, just read it.)

P61. Vicka:  "She would like the prayer groups to pray so that God's plan for the salvation of the world,
BEING MANIFESTED THROUGH THE BLESSED MOTHER, can be realized."  Everything here is cool
except for the part which has been capitalized.  The manifestation of God's plan is once again through....none other
than Jesus Christ.

P62. Vicka:  "Does the Blessed Mother meet everyone when they die and take them to Heaven?" "Yes."

OK, I'll accept an escort service, but don't confuse this with the cover charge.  Jesus pays the cover charge.

P78. Vicka:  "And when we totally clean our hearts, we are able to realize the Blessed Mothers's plan, and 
what she is expecting from us."

Who's Plan?  God's Plan! It's that simple.

P114. Marija:  "The Blessed Mother has said, 'Blessed are they who do not see but who believe'."

Well, this is starting to sound kinda Mormon-like because I'm sure Mary would reiterate something that
Jesus said, but nonetheless, the actual person who coined that phrase, and who should be given credit for 
it was JESUS.  John 20:29 "Jesus said to him (Thomas), "Because you have seen Me, have you believed?
Blessed are they who did not see, and yet believe.'"

P123.  The prayer on this page says:

"Mary brings Eternal Life to all His lost children."  I don't think so. Countless verses support the fact that
Jesus brings eternal life.

"All God's children are called to be like HER."  Well, she's certainly much better than I am, but I believe
that we were called to be like JESUS.

"His most beloved creature, Mary, the Mother He has given to all His children through His Son Jesus,.."
Wait a minute, God's most beloved is, once again, HIS SON. John 3:16 (you watch football, you should
know this verse.) God gave his son to YOU. He did not give him to Mary so that she could give him to you!


P129.  Father Philip: "

Father Philip also messes with John 3:16 on P129.  I only have one thing to say to people who substitue
their own words in the middle of scripture. Revelation 22:18-19, 'I testify to everyone who hears the words
of the prophcy of this book; if anyone adds to them God shall add to him the plages which are written in this 
book; and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part
from the tree of life and from the holy cit, which are written in this book."

Finally, Father Philip also says, " MARY IS FULL PARTNER OF GOD THE FATHER, SON, AND
SPIRIT, AND PRESENT IN ALL THREE PLACES."

Enough said,  that one was the kiss of death. This whole book seems to ring the same bell over and over.
'Mary gave Jesus to us at his birth (and continues to give him).  Jesus gave Mary to us at his death." 
 Neither of these two things happened.  God gave Jesus to us; Mary was the vehicle.  

