Philip Slater puts forth with vehemence and passion his opinions on the trends of hyperconsumerism and overindependence that are driving rifts between the people of our nation and diverting much-needed resources from  instituations designed to create health and well-being. His observations  about how middle-class Americans are alienating themselves by placing far  too much emphasis on material possessions, individualistic thought (&quot;I  am different from all of you&quot;), and an economy that is powerfully  rooted in the need to simply consume and produce goods rather than increase  the quality of life are interesting, though a bit dated, and still hold  much relevance to the current situation today.    Still, the phenomena he  rages against are nothing new to the conscientious among us, and there are  many other views on the problems of loneliness and hyperconsumerism that  prey on us. Slater makes powerful points, and he clearly has a deep desire  to see change and the end of the injustices that characterize our century,  but I found his writing style and thought process to be scattered and far  too extremist to inspire me. His book seemed less of an empirical analysis  of the problems facing our nation and what we can do to solve them and more  of an emotional rant about what he personally feels is wrong and where he  feels we all went wrong. Nothing bad about that, it's just he seems so  angry and hurt about it all that he didn't come close to capturing me  (though the chapter about Vietnam and the last chapter were coming close).      It was a good book, but there are far better books written by far more  inspirational people. Carl Rogers (&quot;On Becoming a Person&quot;) was a  psychologist who spoke beautifully and wisely for the healing of the  isolation and misunderstandings in our relationships with each other.  Barbara Marx Hubbard (&quot;Conscious Evolution: Awakening the Power of Our  Social Potential&quot;) writes convincingly and with an uplifting sense of  hope about the problems we face as a people and a culture and what we can  do in the coming decades to move in the direction that Philip Slater longed  for. Both these authors, and many others, rationally describe problems we  all face, then offer warm and well though-out advice about what we can all  do. Slater seems like something of a ranter, and reading his book only  depressed me. But hey, read the book, then move on. Good luck
