Galen Cranz on "The Chair"
1998, 253 pp.
WW Norton & Company

Reviewed by Rani Lueder, CPE

This book has interesting content on seating and sitting.   Having once spent my vacation scouring Europe's museums for the earliest representation of a chair (earliest I could find was 1570), I looked forward to opening its covers. 

Dr. Cranz teaches Environmental Design at the UC Berkeley Architecture Dept.   Not surprisingly, she cuts a wide swath on seating, spanning history, sociology, industrial design, architecture, ergonomics and holistic body/mind approaches - particularly the Alexander technique. 

Parts of her book are engrossing. In particular, her historical perspective of how chair design has evolved historically   [if it is accurate]  may be unmatched. Her discussion of the holistic aspects of posture is also interesting. 

That said, this book is NOT noteworthy for the caliber of its review of the ergonomics research on sitting postures and seating.  Much of it is plain hogwash. 

Throughout the book she refers to us as "ergonomicists"   [should be "ergonomists"]  and claims the discipline is derived from the Greek "ergon" and "omics"   [should be "nomos" (laws)].
 
It is sometimes painful to read her sweeping generalizations.  Dr. Cranz writes that ergonomic researchers "have concluded that the workstation should be an indication of the worker's status" (p. 55) . . .  and "status differences have to be maintained, ergonomicists say" (p. 56),  citing as evidence two office planning guides written by and for architects  that fail to mention ergonomists or ergonomics anywhere in the book. 

She misrepresents research, as when she castigates Dr. Etienne Grandjean's "poor reasoning" in Fitting the Task to the Man, writing "Amazingly, Grandjean starts with the slump as a goal" (p. 108).   Drs. Grandjean et al's research had actually documented computer users' self-selected postures.  These researchers reported that rather than sitting upright, the computer users they observed tended to recline somewhat.

She cites findings from a small laboratory study by Drs. Bendix et al. as proof that lumbar supports on chair backrests are unnecessary (p. 109)   ---  but not the many studies that contradict.  Minor assertions are meticulously cited, but questionable conclusions often are not sourced. 

If you are looking for a thorough analysis of seated posture, this is not the book for you.  It provides a unique and multidisciplinary perspective on the context of seating, but please take her review of the research on sitting postures and seating design with a heavy dose of salt
