Tony Sweet's first book "Fine Art Nature Photography - Advanced Techniques and the Creative Process" proved very enjoyable.  I found it very both very helpful and really (in parts) inspirational, as attested to by the many unique images it contains as examples of both photographic concept and execution.  Particularly so since no digital "enhancements" were used (deliberately) at all.  But the newer book: "Fine Art Flower Photography ...", well, I'm not so certain of its merits.  As far as I could determine, there's not a single new technique set out in this second publication.  Sure, the author does explore the use of a tilt and shift lens and of a diffusion filter, but both in a very classical manner.  While the use of "surrounding props" - such as spider webs, dewdrops, etc. - is very thoughtful and artistic, the remainder of the worked floral image examples he presents involve just a little tweaking of the procedures for multiple exposure and multiple slide assemblies which were introduced in the initial handbook.  And indeed, some of the floral subjects are the same as were used and presented already in his "first volume"(!).  In fact, it's almost as if the author wished he had waited just a little longer to publish a definitive account of all of his work, but has decided just to play catch-up with the newer collection.  Also it seems that there are a couple of missed opportunities.  For example, there's a beautiful image (of an egret in flight) in the first book where fill-in flash is utilized.  But the technique for using and/or developing this further is left aside and is by-passed totally for the floral image studies in the later book (even though at one point the flash-unit is definitely mounted on the camera - see p.82!).  Additionally, since colour contrast is such a critical feature of many of these images, I was left pondering whether the multi-slide technique could use a saturated colour image paired with an appropriately filtered black-and-white exposure.  All-in-all, if you already own the nature photography book, you're not likely to gather much that's truly new from the floral one.  On the other hand, for a double dose of inspiration ..
