The author says THE FIGHTING FIRST is supposed to be the untold story of THe Big Red One on D-Day.  That would have been very interesting; too bad that's not the book the author wrote.

Instead, THE FIGHTING FIRST is a very rough history of the 1st Infantry Division during World War II, emphasizing June 6th, 1944.  We have to go through North Africa and Sicily first, and the first soldier doesn't even hit Omaha Beach until page 144.  Less than a hundred pages later, D-Day is over, and we go on until the end of the war.

Furthermore, much of the time the focus isn't even on The Big Red One -- we get higher level planning, the enemy point of view, British civilians.  There are long, long quotes from very familiar secondary sources -- Ryan, Ike, Bradley, Pyle, Butcher -- that only tangentially relate to the 1st ID.

The research was limited.  The author did 18 interviews, and looked at monographs on file at the Center for Military History.  Then the aforementioned secondary sources.  The index, even on a very quick check (TR, Jr., for examples), contains errors.

Then there's the writing.  Yes, the fighting on D-Day was confusing, and we tend to become emotional when we consider the sacrifices the young men hitting the beaches that day made.  But that doesn't mean you have to write about it in a confusing, overwrought manner.  Whitlock does not produce a coherent narrative; for all his verbage, many other authors have written much better about what the Big Red One Did on D-Day.

And after that, it just gets worse.  The final third of the book, from June 7th to V-E Day, is little more than a collection of personal remenisces and Medal of Honor citations, with little sense about what the division was actually doing.  The "Where Are They Now" Epilogue is very poorly written -- the interviewees deserved better.

Here's the problem when you run across poor writing and limited research -- they raise questions.  In one spot, Whitlock gives us the story of a 1st Division soldier who was at Schofield Barracks in Hawaii on December 7th, 1941.  It has his telling about shooting a cal. .50 at Japanese planes, and watching the battleships at Pearl Harbor get hit.  But you can't see Pearl from Schofield!  So we have three options:  (1) Whitlock doesn't know enough geography and history to know this isn't right, or (2)Whitlock let inaccuracy stand because it made for a good story, or (3)Whitlock is a poor writer who mixes up the soldier's narrative.  All three are unaccpetable, and with a book like THE FIGHTING FIRST, it is impossible to tell which (or maybe all) is the case
