Michael Lind's "Vietnam: The Necessary War" argues that the Indochina conflict was a crucial and unavoidable struggle within the larger framework of the Cold War.  Central to his thesis, Lind maintains that the proxy-war nature of the Cold War--the small clashes that the two superpowers used to determine their resolve and credibility--often had only symbolic importance (Vietnam) and really no geopolitical significance.  Moreover, Lind asserts that the American leadership had only a certain window of opportunity in proxy wars, based directly on public reaction to casualties, to achieve US objectives.  Lind places that casualty rate at 15-20,000 lives; after that, he argues, presidential administrations ran the risk of losing domestic support for the overall Cold War struggle.  
      Examining the significance of Indochina and, with complete support of the Communist-monolith idea, (the belief the Kremlin controlled all Communist nations/revolutionaries) is where Lind's analysis ultimately fails.  His chapters take a broad approach in an attempt to rebut what he sees as the accepted liberal/Left dogma that has solidified the historical approach to Vietnam (he does, to a lesser degree, also critique hawkish/conservative approaches, such as the "military was not allowed to win the war by the politicians" argument that other research has already debunked). Each chapter feels more like a collection of short essays that never quite gel. One of the most compelling arguments is his examination of the reasons, regardless of political party alignment, of  the South's continued support for military excursions and Greater New England's traditional opposition to war.  Even here, however, the analysis seems largely general and somewhat detached from the specificity of the Cold War/Vietnam conflict.  In each chapter's section, especially the critiques of domestic/Left opposition to the Vietnam War, Lind seeks to debunk "myths" about Vietnam.  Each of these sections could be the basis of an entire research project.  Lind, however, feels justified in giving usually one example, and devoting a couple of pages to the (very important) topic.  
    His assertions in these sections often rely upon "if, then" qualifications, based on similar events in the Korea War or World War II, to justify his points about Vietnam.  These absolutist terms, such as the answer to his question about the legitimacy of the Diem regime in South Vietnam can be paraphrased as such: "if the US was justified in supporting Syngman Rhee in South Korea, it was all right to support Ngo Dinh Diem."  This approach ignores events intrinsic to Vietnam and the Diem regime.  
 A final critique (leaving out other ones, such as his arguments about PTSD and the morality of superpowers intervening in civil wars for their global struggle) is the idea of what I call Lind's "death ceiling."  His assertion that it was not necessary for the US to win the Vietnam War (it was only a proxy war in an overall global conflict)to prove its resolve and end any myths of Munich appeasement, begs the question: What would happen if the United States would have reached its "death ceiling" in any proxy war (not just Vietnam) and not reached even its limited objectives (how does a nation determine when its credibility has been proven to allies and to enemies)? My answer to this is, based on reading Lind's research, is that there would have been more divisive conflicts such as Vietnam.  Lind's overwhelming emphasis on credibility and symbolism, over human lives, draws this conclusion
