It is indeed frightening to see the number of reviewers on this page who agree with Pat Buchanan's insane assumption that America is like Rome being sacked by hordes of barbarians. This only goes to show the true moral decay in the U.S. culture, a decay in its treatment and understanding of the other peoples of the world, and we are supposed to be the ones exporting "democracy" and "freedom" to the Middle East? In "State Of Emergency" Buchanan has created no less than the perfect condensed sample of the new racist thinking in contemporary America, where those immigrating from the Americas are seen as nothing less than unskilled peasants, eventhough the Americas produced potent cultures long before Columbus ever arrived. Buchanan never even addresses one reason why the Americas have been so ill-run, BECAUSE WE HAVE HELPED ESTABLISH JUNTAS AND DICTATORSHIPS IN THE REGION. We need only look at the 1973 coup in Chile where we helped establish a military dictatorship or in recent times with the CIA-backed attempted coup on Hugo Chavez in 2002. Oh, but we are but innocent Americans being flooded by unwanted peoples. Buchanan in this work completely outlines the thought process of the typical radical conservative, which is a fear of change, of the march of history. "State Of Emergency" is nothing but a propaganda piece for people locked to a past THAT IS GONE. America will NEVER return to the 1950s, 40s or 1800s because these are eras that have come and gone, no empire, culture etc. has ever survived the centuries unphased. But Buchanan will have you believe that white American culture is the only way to go, forget the fact that there were Natives here when the pilgrims arrived, the only way conservatives believe is correct is their way and they will struggle and cry to bend everyone else to their will. "State Of Emergency" as a book is also simply a boring read, Buchanan is as exciting to read as a Manhattan phone book, his prose is dry and his points repetitive and paranoid. How sad to think that in a "civilized" or "advanced" society this kind of dribble is still taken seriously, especially by the "intellectual" a few reviews below who agrees with Buchanan that people from the Americas are not worth anything as human beings, using rhetoric worthy of the KKK. "State Of Emergency" is pathetic and more scary than appealing, scary because it shows that in contemporary America, figures in power still espouse the ideas of men like Jim Crow and Adolf Hitler.
