Peter Whybrow's finest moments are to be found at the beginning and at the end of this book, in which he provides an eloquent, impassioned and highly quotable critique of contemporary American society.  Ideally, these two sections should be treated as independent essays, because they really don't deserve to go down with the rest of the ship - which, in this case, is a very long exposition of an error-ridden, poorly (though lengthily)defended, and, well, just plain wrong, hypothesis. The short version of Whybrow's thesis is that Americans are "manic" because America was populated by migrants who were curiousity-driven risk-takers, and that, somehow, this resulted in changes in neurobiology which in turn perpetuate (and perhaps create - this was vague) the inability to be satified with "enough."  One might expect this kind of individualistic theory from a psychiatrist, which is a profession that frequently misses the larger picture.  What one doesn't expect is the degree to which Whybrow explores the migrant "mind-set" without offering a shred of evidence for its existence.  (No "evidence" can be offered.  Most of these early migrants are quite thoroughly dead.) Notwithstanding the fact that a significant proportion of migrants came to America against their will (Africans, Chinese, and most women to name a few) there simply is no means to evaluate whether any migrant group anywhere experiences a shift in the activity of neurochemicals.  To claim otherwise is sheer nonsense.

Whybrow makes a fine attempt at appearing to offer support for his claims by quoting from venerable old dinosaurs. Although Whybrow quotes at considerable length from Adam Smith, giving the reader the false impression that Whybrow understands economics, he does not analyze America's manic spending with depth. Instead, he offers a series of broad, well-known statistics about wealth distribution, economic trends, etc, which tell us very little about the actual psychology involved in our supposed spending frenzy.

All this could be forgiven had there been an adequate amount of thought put into the central tenets which form the bulk the book.  But here again, Whybrow falls short.  He tends to rely on popular prejudices more than actual research.  His blythe claim that the fall of Soviet Russia signaled the triumph of laissez faire capitalism over communism stands as one of the more ridiculous statements in the book.  (Not withstanding the very obvious communist elephant in the room - China - no reputable economist on the past 200 years actually treats laissez faire capitalism as anything more than a quaint myth.) His assumption that obesity is somehow related to unbridled greed is equally absurd.  When was the last time you saw an obese CEO? A simple comparative field trip to a McDonald's, and let's say, a high-end French restaurant on the upper east side would have added a vital piece of factual information so deplorably missing from Whybrow's analysis.  For, unlike the exec-moms and financial wiz-kids who Whybrow seems to think are representative samples of "America" your average wage-earner does not suffer from "over-scheduled" children, jet-lagged interpersonal relations, and turbo-charged consumption.  

If you want to read a well-written exposition of some of the unfounded myths "explaining" contemporary America, then this book is for you.  If not, then read Jared Diamond, Kevin Phillips, or Chalmers Johnson. 
