This is a well written book.  And it is sincere.  So it may seem unfair that I'm giving it only one star.  I generally reserve that rating for books which are intentionally dishonest.  But I disagree so strongly with the logic of this book that I simply can't give it a higher rating than this.

This book does not recommend surrendering to Islamic terror.  It recommends fighting the terrorists intelligently and also trying to do something about the "causes of terror" which have become such a great tool for recruiting terrorists.  Well, I think that's a good idea as well.  And that's why I'm giving this book one star.  You see, in addition to taking on the real thugs, it also recommends making some really tiny concessions (if indeed they are considered concessions at all) that many people agree will really help us make fewer enemies among the common folks!  But in my opinion, these tiny concessions will probably cause the entire strategy to fail.  Furthermore, I think the reasoning that gets us to come up with the idea of such concessions will lead us to make many more mistakes.

The one area where the authors think we need to make a concession is in the Arab-Israeli conflict.  They have it all worked out.  Make sure that Israel's security is not threatened.  Let the Levantine Arabs have their freedom and sovereignty.  Defuse the whole issue for the whole Muslim world.  Achieve peace.  Everyone wins!   But I think this is the key to failure and that everyone will lose.  As I see it, this is a battle between forces which are demanding truth and human rights against those who demand the victory of preposterous and racist propaganda.  And any "resolution" of the conflict will mean dealing not with true representatives of the Arab people of the region (who might well argue in favor of something useful) but with a gang of self-proclaimed "representatives" who actually represent merely the demands of some racists for the removal of the human rights of Levantine Jews (and probably of other minorities as well).  I think that means there will be other tiny concessions, all of which will be carefully designed to preclude peace and to increase the chances of recruiting more terrorists.

The most significant tiny concession we'll be asked to make is, in my opinion, going to be to admit that the terrorists are Right.  That it is immoral for minorities to have human rights.  That the Enlightenment was immoral as well.  That scholarship is evil, especially scholarship in the field of history.  Basically, we'll be signing off on their propaganda and making it appear legitimate.  I doubt very much that the authors want us to do this.  But I feel very strongly that this is the only way we can get the "agreement" that the authors think will "defuse" the issue.  Oh, we'll pretend that we've done no such thing.  But we will have.  And if we do that, I think we will have lost a huge battle in a real war, even if our opponents quit using violence for a while in exchange.  

I think the recommendations of the authors are simply wrong.  It might make sense to fight the terrorists and stand up for truth, scholarship, and human rights.  If we try it and win, billions of humans will be happier, and human society will be more prosperous.  It might even make sense to surrender to reactionary and racist terrorism, and give up on truth, scholarship, and human rights.  But I think we ought to make up our minds and pick a strategy.  And I think that what this book recommends will be worse than either choice
