After reading your reviews i was curious and i've bought this book. One premise: i loved her excuse me book and playbook. I thought she had reached a high level of Enlightment: after all in those 2 books, she wrote some very powerful things full of meaning!!! BUt i was very wrong, because in this book you learn that after her excuse me book was published, and while she was writing the playbook, she became very ill and depressed. She became very introverted and a true hermit... actually she tells us that it was just her, her dogs and her "swinger"... oh yes... she was speaking to some entities not of the light, The Others, with her "swinger". After 6 years from excuse, she was ready to fly to HOlland to have assisted-suicide: however not before she had to reveal to us the terrible secret that we have been kept from knowing for all these Eons: Lucifier and Abe (god) are real, then there's PSI ( an entity created by Abe to artificially higher this universe's frequency), then there are the Light's sparks-beings (High Frequency) and The Others (low frequency beings)aka the devils that are messing us up. She tells us a story, the story of how this universe was created, how God was created, how Lucifer and the others were created... how this earth was created and how things have been changing for the past 200 years (Psi is broadcasting this higher frequency energy in order to get The Others out of this universe created by Abe). those of us willing to broadcast daily HIgh Frequencies, will be reborn in the new universe and in the new planet/paradise or Earth Two (it will happen before 2012...so please just get started....) OH she also tells us why after many months of application of her philosophy and techniques of the excuse me book, many people were unable to reach enlightment or to get anything at all: it's because The Others are messing us up. BUT she finally gives us 6 steps to be read out loud with full intention "in the name of the light, from now on i am part of the light and every agreement i had with the others is no longer valid..." (!) could salvation be any easier than this ?!?
YOu read these statements out loud and JUST ONCE, and that's it: within 2 weeks our consciousness, our guiding system and our 3 guides (oh yes, in order to be incarnated we need to have from 3 to 10 guides-entities which are usually a mix between The Others and The Light Ones -that's why we are such a mess btw-) will be composed exclusively of Entities from the LIght. No more mixes please. Finally, from now on, all the techniques of excuse me will work perfectly.
And if you ever ask a question with a swinger, please always start the question with "In the name of the light...." otherwise you will get answers from the others.
Quite a story, right ? I dont understand why these authors have to go cu-cu with these entities-stories, like L.Ron HUbbard of Scientology and Dianetics did in his Upper Levels ( he wrote that our body is composed of trillions of entities and we need auditing to set them all free in order to regain our own self-determination and freedom).
Hold it, i ve got a spark: maybe these authors were talking science-fiction in their works, many people bought their books and applied their techniques...which didnt work, so they had to involve all these entities to explain why their stuff didnt work in the first place! Wow!!! How simple is it !?! YES, it must be the entities... blame it on the entities,dude! Otherwise someone could blame the lack of results on the author that just invented the self-help book in order to make lots of cash !!! Wow we are lucky indeed that both Grabhorn and Hubbard were able to unlock the secrets of this universe and to tell us all about it ( for a fee of course).
And please: if something goes wrong, please dont blame God anymore ! And dont say that you are so unlucky!!! Please blame it on the others: it's their fault and only their fault: nasty little entities
