Disclosure: I was sent a free advance copy of this book to review by publisher based on previous reviews I had written on Amazon.

This is a curious book with an intriguing premise: we should look to our evolutionary history to evaluate what traits in our societal organisation have been successful and, to the extent we think our current society is not working, cure the defects by realigning with our evolutionary history - going back to what time has shown to be "good evolutionary tricks".

Those, in Gilbert's view, include redefining (for which read "abandoning") modern feminism; toughening the divorce laws and generally promoting and sanctifying heterosexual marriage and motherhood as the fulcrum of our social arrangements; promoting the extended family; and fostering our "kinship and ethnic roots", whatever that might mean.

Those values, stated baldly, read rather like a How To Live A Godly Life handbook from some sort of evangelical religious organisation - which, in itself, is fine, if that's your bag - but for those like me who hold evangelical religious organisations in pretty low regard, largely because they tend to espouse those sorts of views without good foundation, it makes the Darwin argument - which would appear to be just such a good foundation - a very interesting one indeed. I hold the theory of evolution in pretty high regard, so I figured this book might represent some sort of a midlife crisis.

But no such luck: it is apparent early on that Gilbert's underlying argument is obviously flawed - so much so that for much of the book I was expecting a knock-out punch from an unexpected quarter. It never came: as William C. Scheel adeptly puts it in a review below, "Gilbert flunks the fundamentals of Darwinism".

Here is the fallacy: Evolution describes a blind algorithmic process, in which through the process of natural selection, favours those organisms which happen, through accident or design, to be better suited *to the prevailing conditions* through time - and which successfully reproduce more quickly. Evolution is "path-dependent": we've got where we are through a collossal concatenation of contingencies, and where we're going from here is no different. Just like the stock market, "past performance is no guarantee of future performance. The value of your investment may go up or down". Words, curiously, that Gilbert's fictional financial adviser never bothers to mention (inexplicably, Gilbert has invented a financial adviser who leaves putatively "witty" voicemails throughout the course of this book, to no apparent point).

According to Gilbert, when presented with an uncertain future, we should look to our past - and not even our recent past, but our ancient past, when Homo Sapiens first descended from the trees and encroached on the Savannah - to determine how to act.

But we are not in the Savannah any more. We have houses, and cars and witty financial advisers who leave us voicemails. We live in the age of the internet; technology is progressing geometrically to the point where our social environment is barely recognisable from that 100, let alone 1,000,000, years ago, and that environment includes not just artefacts like phones, cars, planes and computers, but intellectual concepts - "memes" - like feminism, political correctness and homosexual marriage. 

Good adaptive tricks learned in the Savannah *may* work in this wildly different environment, by some lucky hap, but expecting them to - prescribing them for everyone - is as much of a folly as expecting the Dodo to deal with the arrival of humans on Mauritius by sitting ever more tightly on its egg.

In actual fact, evolutionary prescription will be this: all of us, in society, are trying to make our way as best we can. We all adopt slightly different strategies. Some will work better (in this environment, now) than others. Those that work best will flourish. Only time will tell. And THAT'S IT. That's all we can say: to go any further turns an observing biologist into a social engineer - a breed which, ironically, Gilbert spends the last half of the book railing against.

This book will give succour to those who share the author's traditionalist views and would like to believe it gives them a sounder footing that simply their own personal preferences, but it will irritate those who don't, and leave those with a taste for a good vigorous argument about the merits of the philosophical argument a little disappointed.

Olly Buxton
