(Written for Worm's Sci Fi Haven by Dagny Taggart, more of her reviews can be read here: www.wormsscifi.com/haven)


Colin Laney is a special kind of private investigator. He is an investigator in the John Nash/Beautiful Mind sense: he can look at random bits of information that surround a person or event, and tell you what the information focuses on, what's going to happen, what you can do to change what will happen, to your advantage, of course. 

Laney has been retained by the security team of Rez, the lead singer of Lo/Rez, the latest Japanese superband. Rez has fallen in love with Rei, who is an "Idoru", a 100% virtual media superstar. Makes me think of the movie Simone. Rez has announced to the world (and his fan club full of adoring teenagers) his plans to marry the Idoru. It is believed that Rez was coerced into this plan. Laney has been hired to prove it and expose the guilty party. 

Meanwhile, Chia, an American teenager has also heard the marriage announcement, and she goes to Japan as an emmissary of the American Lo/Rez fan club. Chia visits with both American and Japanese fan club members via her computer, in the virtual world (can you say "Matrix"?). Chia feels she is getting deeper into some kind of conspiracy, and she knows it revolves around Rez, but she is only able to get tiny bits of information. Also, the virtual reality she visits is being inhabited by the Idoru. 

William Gibson is certainly an ingenious product of the modern world. Typically, when I say "product of the modern world", I do not mean that as a compliment. But all the movies that this reminds me of, such as "The Matrix", "Simone", and "Wag the Dog", they all came out at least 3 years after this book was published in 1996. That means Gibson created the virtual world, The Matrix, first. Bravo to him. 

Plot wise, I had a good time. Lots of suspense, some absolutely beautiful virtual environments, a bit of quick confusion at the end. However, after a while I started to wonder, except for the eccentricity bit, why would anyone care that a famous singer would want to marry a nicer, cuter, and female version of Agent Smith? Seriously? Yes, it's very eccentric and avant-garde, but what's the harm? What's the big deal? Why the big hissy fits? 

Good job on cyber-punk. Fun romp. Reads like a screenplay. Not much depth. I didn't see how the Idoru was "more than he'd ever seen, enough to break a man's heart", or "the things that bother Rez aren't the things that bother most people', like the teaser in the just jacket promised.
