According to a recent New York Times article, Kathie Coblentz has a home library she estimates at 3,600 volumes packed into a one-bedroom apartment.  As a special collection cataloger for the New York Public Library she has written the book portion of this set (software, book, and binder).

Book cataloging software is an iffy proposition.  My current collection (20,000+ volumes not counting 1,000+ of graphic novels) is on a computerized database.  I tried many off-the shelf products and they all fail in one major aspect or another.  Do you want to know what stories are in a particular collection?  Do you want to know that the book crosses several genres? (a big thing in romances these days)  Do you want ISBNs? searches capable of looking for primary, secondary, tertiary, etc. authors?  M. Ahrens suggests software that adds data based on ISBN.  But what about all of those books published before the ISBN became a standard in 1970? Value?  Edition?  Typeface?  Binding?  A collector is better off thinking about what they want to track in their collection and using a simple database program (Paradox, Access, etc.) or a configurable home inventory program.

The binder is designed for printing out a copy of your book inventory (mine changes several times a week thus making a paper record short-lived and wasteful).  It is a nice addition for a complete collection (say a complete collection of first editions of a favorite author) but inadequate for any active collection.

The book is interesting but seems to apply to a perfect world.  If you add to your collection, the idea of shelf numbering may not be something you want to have to keep updating in the database as books move from one shelf to another.  Calculating shelf space needed is usually pretty straight forward (but always add at least 30% if you don't want to spend more time moving books than reading them.

Of course there are nuggets that cataloging novices may not have thought of and the price is not prohibitive but if you are looking for that final solution to your personal library, this is really just a signpost that can point you into better directions.
