Blum apparently wants to hang his hat on the declassification of documents that identify and elaborate on the actions of an Egyptian double agent who assisted in extending Israeli complacency during the final days and hours leading up to the October War.  Blum focuses on the agent, on the frustrations of an Israeli SIGINT (signals intelligence) officer who challenged The Concept, and on the relationship of a high-profile field grade officer and his wife.
Where does the book succeed?  The identification of "The In-Law" is interesting.  The writing is engaging.  The story of Nati and Yossi is a good hook for making us care about what happens to the men fighting, and what they were trying to protect.  Blum, to his credit, provides enough information on Shazly for the reader to understand how bold and brilliant the Egyptian plan really was.
So why do I see this book as a failure?  The single greatest flaw is that, while the parts are (generally) well-written and compelling, the whole is misleading.  Access to additional information should lead to a book that gives the reader a better understanding of the events, not a worse.  There is hardly a mention of either the United States or the Soviet Union; the story is told, from beginning to end, as if Egypt, Syria, and Israel were the only significant players, and that is downright misleading.  No mention is made of the American airlift of armor and aircraft to replace the appalling Israeli losses of the opening days.  Nor is there any mention of the desperate negotiations on the cease-fire, the elevation of American DEFCON, Sharon's violation of the ceasefire to complete the encirclement of an Egyptian Army - all of this is absolutely critical to even a basic understanding of the war, and none of it is mentioned - even in passing.  That is inexcusable.
Second, none of the new information provides much in the way of additional insight into how the Israelis were taken by surprise.  The existence of The Concept, the fact that a junior Israeli officer challenged it to no avail, the indecisiveness of the cabinet - these are all facts that have been well known for three decades.  Blum's revelation of the In-Law's identity is interesting, but the only information he provides that changes previous understanding of the sequence of events is probably the In-Law's attempts to buy the Egyptians another four hours - and that is not entirely convincing.  Nor, for that matter, was it decisive; Blum did not make a convincing case that, had the Israelis moved a few hours earlier, that the Suez crossing points could have been successfully defended.  (Keep in mind that the Egyptians designed the operation assuming that the Israelis would catch on at least a day before the attack.)
Minor quibbles:  Either Blum does not always show a grasp of the geography of the events, or he needs better editors.  For example, on p.200, he writes "In the Sinai, the forces should evacuate the Suez Canal area and move far north, establishing a last-stand defense at Sharm el-Sheikh."  Sadly, Sharm is at the extreme southern tip of the Sinai.  This might not be worth pointing out, except that I am actually interested in the battles, and now have no idea where Blum suggests Dayan thought the last stand should take place.  Gidi?  Bir al Abd?  Al Arish?  Also on the editing side of the house, Blum twice tries to pull us into Brill's world by giving us a taste of his lingo - but he gets it wrong.  " 'Signit' was the curt, comprehensive term Aman officers used for their daily catch of electronic signals intelligence..."(p.73)  Unfortunately, "Signit" is not the curt term used; it's "SIGINT," and I was inclined to attribute the error to a typo until it was repeated.  
Finally, the book has no index.  This is incomprehensible.  It's clear that Blum was not trying to write an academic book here, but even an accessible light historical book should have a basic index, particularly when a plethora of confusing personal and place names are involved.
There's the kernal of a wonderful book hiding in here.  Blum writes well, has a good eye for detail; I can't understand the book's shortcomings, unless it was rushed to print to beat others who are also getting first-time access to the declassified archives.  All in all, a disappointment
