The author examines Inka and Mayan myths using a variety of tools, and many, many words.  To the first myth he applies the theories in Hamlets Mill to explain why the Foxes tail is black and pinpoint AD 650 as the rise of warfare in the Andes.  From here it's mostly downhill.

The author then drags us through his own internal mental processes of doubt and disbelief as he looks at other myths.  Through this long process he forcefully and unnecessarily brings up many biases such as there is no proof that a matriarchal society ever existed anywhere in the world.  Period.  He returns to the subject of matriarchal disbelief many times calling it a big 'red flag'.  He leads us through his admitted internal stubborness of this and many other issues.

Although I believe the author is correct in his assocation with the Fox's tail being black being a celestial event ala Hamlets Mills, he spends so many words looking at other myths from a plethora of angles that you are forced into a single conclusion.  That no one outside of a culture has any clue at what a given myth really means.  The entire book is like running naked through the forest yelling out conclusions about myths which rightly are interpreted only by their creators.

At one point in the discussion of 'finding father' he claims that the Andean man lacked a true heart with the ability to love while he was primarily a hunter within a matrilinear horticultural society.  Andean man only gained his heart and full ability to love when the culture changed to fully agriculture and he had to stay at home with the wife and kids.  Give me a break.  To any Andean person alive this is rubbish.  What kinds of conclusions and judgements can we make living outside the cultural box.  It is this kind of subtle talk that is a jaguars hair short of prejudice and racism.

Ultimately, although if you like reading from the 'academic' view, this book does lead you through enough alleys to make you feel like the author knows what he is talking about, ultimately it fails from it's biases and from being rooted in a combination of sexism and western scientific dogma.

If the author wanted to really understand the Andean mind then he would have had to undergo a process of breaking open his head and surrendering to the mystery of myth reather than trying to break open the myths using the rational mind.  Myth is mythic.  A view which ultimately escapes the author.  It might be worth it to take this book on if you have a university paper to write.  It will certainly scintillate your professor being of the same vocabulary and possibly biases.  But if you are looking to expanding your understanding of the Inka or Andean cultures from a spiritual or mythic perspective then look elsewhere.  Get yourself to South America, Peru, spend time with the shamans.  Then you can learn what myth is really about.  And how it lives today
