Christians beware!  This book hides dangerous cultic teachings behind the so called spiritual insights in the Sermon on the Mount.  It is indeed a deceptive Trojan horse filled with "Christian Science" heresies.  Mr. Fox's teachings in this book subtly contradict almost all sound doctrines of the Bible such as the Reality of Sin, Vicarious Atonement, Justification by Faith, Redemption, the Trinity of God, etc.  

According to Mary Baker Eddy, founder of the First Church of Christ, Scientist, universally known as Christian Science, Jesus could not die for Man's sins, because Mankind never sinned; Christ did not really die on the cross therefore He resurrected from non-death.  Christian Science also declares that the Scriptures cannot properly be interpreted in a literal way, and thus, the truth of scripture must be "spiritually" discerned before its message can be applied to our lives.

Therefore, this book is hiding harmful non-Christian metaphysics and psychic interpretations behind the words of Jesus in His Sermon on the Mount.  Moreover, Fox here promotes a salvation by works and positive thinking that is foreign to the Bible.

For those who wrote positive reviews of this book I want to say that Christianity is not about spirits seeking and deep trances, but it is all about the finding of the only Spirit of God, deep thankfulness in sincere meditation on the Gospel of the Cross, and above all, a relationship with God through His resurrected Son, Jesus Christ who died for our sins, so that we can be saved by the grace of God through faith alone.  

I am amazed by how "C.S." people perceive the teachings of Christian science as being enlightened and how they see themselves as being thinkers. This is complete ignorance. These people do not even know how to think, much less how to think critically. They are ignorant about the doctrines of the Bible, ignorant of theological, cultural exegesis, ignorant of historical / textual criticism, and ignorant about real, genuine science. 

The religion of (non)Christian (non)science is theologically, philosophically, Biblically and scientifically false; its roads end in eternal damnation.

For those who want to read a good Christian commentary on the Sermon on the Mount, I recommend the books of D. A. Carson, John MacArthur, Dale C. Allison, D. Martin Lloyd-Jones, James Montgomery Boice, and Leon Morris among others.
