     Millet attempts in his book to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear. The author addresses a controversial subject; namely, is Mormonism Christian? While he uses somewhat persuasive arguments (convincing Mormons, the uninformed, and those unknowledgeable in sound Christian doctrine), his arguments don't hold up under the light of Biblical truth. Having spent 26 years of my life as a devout Mormon, and leaving Mormonism for a saving relationship with Jesus Christ of the Bible, I know from experience there is a big difference in what the Holy Bible teaches about Jesus and what the Mormon (LDS) Church teaches about Jesus. Millet is a sincere individual, but he has no authority to speak in behalf of LDS 'prophets,' contradicting what they have taught since the founding of Mormonism. The book overlooks statements by Mormon leaders who have emphasized that Mormonism is NOT Christian and that the Christ they teach and believe in is NOT the Christ of traditional Christianity.

     For example, "We talk about Christianity, but it is a perfect pack of nonsense...It is a sounding brass and a tinkling symbol: it is as corrupt as hell; and the Devil could not invent a better engine to spread his work that the Christianity of the nineteenth century" (John Taylor, LDS prophet, Journal of Discourses, vol. 6, p. 167). Or even more recently, "In bearing testimony of Jesus Christ, President Hinckley spoke of those outside the Church who say Latter-day Saints `do not believe in the traditional Christ.' No, I don't. The traditional Christ of whom they speak is not the Christ of whom I speak. For the Christ of whom I speak has been revealed in this the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times" (Deseret News, Church News section, Salt Lake City, Utah, week ending June 20, 1998, p. 7).

     If you are interested in warm-fuzzy, feel-good, ecumenical theology, you will probably enjoy this book. However, if you are interested in Truth and knowing the REAL Jesus Christ, the One Who can offer genuine salvation, flee from the false christ of Mormonism. Take everything the author says with a pound of salt and do your own research. You will see for yourself that the Mormon Jesus and the Christian Jesus are as different as night and day
