The idea for this book is an excellent one, but the results are very disappointing. Each participant makes such a weak case for their respective positions that the debate itself becomes superfluous. It's like watching the 3rd card in a boxing match. Who cares? For example, Gary Habermas tries to make the affirmative case by citing what he calls 12 "known historical facts" that are indisputable. Here are some of his known facts along with the disputations he apparently was unaware of...

p. 19 "Jesus died due to the rigors of crucifixion" - Very many scholars doubt that the 3 to 6 hours that Jesus was on the cross were sufficient to be a cause of death. Many people lasted for 3 or 4 days. Even Pilot himself was surprised to learn that Jesus died so quickly. Indeed, there are many scholars who believe that the resurrection was actually a "resusitation". This may or may not be true, but it is NOT true that Jesus' death by crucifixion is an uncontested historical fact.

p. 19 "...was buried." The question as to whether or not Jesus was placed in a tomb or simply thrown into a ditch and later buried in a pauper's grave is a debated topic. See, for example, Martin Hengel's informative book Crucifixion in the Ancient World and Haim Cohn's excellent book The Trial and Death of Jesus. Regardless of your belief, it is incorrect to claim Jesus' placement in the tomb as uncontested historical fact. It is not fact at all. Finding Jesus' body in the tomb would establish the fact that he had been placed there. Reading about the placement in the Gospels does not make it fact!

p. 20. "James, the brother of Jesus and a skeptic, was converted to the faith when he also believed he saw the resurrected Jesus." - Nonsense. There is nothing in the New Testament about James' conversion. In fact, there is a great deal of evidence that the Gospels were edited to remove evidence of the positive involvement of Jesus' family (see Butz' excellent book - The Brother of Jesus - for details). In any event, most scholars believe that John 7:5 was a later insertion, and it is John 7:5 which is the basis for Habermas's bold and encompassing assertion. James skepticism and conversion are not uncontested facts.

I could go on, but you get the point. If the debater's case is weak, the debate is weak. 

The need for an informed debate on the resurrection is still there. This promising book does not meet that need.
