Roger Scruton, like many so-called "conservatives" has made a noble swing (hence the two stars) at assessing the spiritual and philosophical problems of our day that have produced what Eliot called the "hollow men", but his "conservative" view is not mine.

While he doesn't give a cultural solution, he makes the keen observation that all conservatives can agree upon, by and large, in the first paragraph of p. 82 regarding culture and religion, how the two intersect, and how one derives meaning. Well done there.

He observes how artists have become the new priests, but have turned art into kitsch, (p. 90) and religion followed (p. 92). In this chapter (8), he correctly discusses how the first effects of modernism was to make high-culture difficult, rather than broadly affirming, which was true - hyper elitist, which you can read from works in T.S. Eliot's day and before. Furthermore, culture became kitschy and ultimately banal, via pop culture, ultimately imbuing fake aesthetic values, which I concur with the author's observation. In Anglo culture, pop culture has become, by and large, fake heritage - a commercial phony disguising what has been lost.

In Chapter 10, he makes some apt observations about the totemic iconic status of pop stars. While pop stars have saint-like status, particularly with youth, I think Scruton gives them too much validity, though they are the modern bards, I wish he would have seasoned his thoughts with an analysis on how corporate ownership uses this enculturation to manipulate the public into the reductionistic location of commodity - everything for sale.

Although, I agree with much of Michael Gunther's assessment regarding Scruton's book of meditations, or rather, observations, that is taking a critical observation of the time line from the Reformation, which Scruton calls the Enlightenment (an historical error).

The error that he makes is to pin, like many conservative Roman Catholic thinkers, the problems of Western society onto the Protestant Reformers, particularly Martin Luther, which is the tone on pages 19, 81 and elsewhere, but explicitly on page 23. He attempts to infuse the Reformation with the caustic thoughts of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Friedrich Nietzsche and others. This is an inaccurate analysis of Western religion and thought. While he introduces some continental thought that is less known today, like earlier German and French literature and art, he tends to merge it all eclectically to seek a salve for his tortured cultural mind. His solution, like many of his ilk, is to decry the breaking up of the Roman Catholic hegemony in the Middle Ages and the retreat of its sacred vision and authority. 

But, the fact of history is that the building and erosion of Western culture is a multi-faceted one that is not so convenient to his position. For instance, did you know that Charles V, who was at odds with the Reformation, also sacked Rome and the pope?

While conservative myself, an Anglo "Whig" conservative, I read this book and saw more broadly how the contemporary "liberal" / "conservative" divide is really a loosely held confederation of worldviews, with many overlaps. Scruton is really trying to speak from an English cultural view (we'll say Anglo, because that cultural worldview reaches beyond England). The conservative Anglo worldview changed in the time of the Tudors to a Reformed Protestant one (even that morphed between a traditional Anglican, Puritan Anglican / Non-Conformist, Laudian, Latitudinarian, Evangelical and others). Like ancient Israel, even this has its muddling. In religious history, the rise of the Anglo-Catholic movement undermined and co-opted this history, which made it vulnerable, as Newman would observe of its romantic medievalism. In history, Britain and the Anglo world started to lose its history and memory as it grew out, losing its religion, and getting caught up in colonial concerns that gained the world, but lost its soul; which got it entangled with multi-culturalism, which has become its political warder. The story is too long and interwoven to call it all out, but there are milestones and I think Scruton gets it wrong from the Anglo position. To make it universal is more difficult, which is what many are trying to do today without ties to religious mooring, but through political revisionisms, such as the post-modern views that Scruton aptly scrutinizes. 

Much of the post-War angst you can read in such works as the writings of Philip Larkin and the critiques of Peter Hitchens, and I must add, George Orwell; and, in film and TV (e.g. Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy", "Inspector Morse", etc.). This undertow was revealed much earlier in Matthew Arnold's era, like his poem, "Dover Beach". WWI, positivism, socialism, among other elements, helped push it along (the 60s wasn't the origin, it was a cumulative effect). The result has been a tragic ride down a nihilistic path. For those in Britain, the punk movement makes cultural sense as an outcome, but even it too has been submerged into the sale and dance of commodity culture, which is what we have with the loss of tradition. You can now see why human life is devalued and cruelty is the face of pop culture today - but you won't see that in the papers or in advertisements without looking.

Lastly, Scruton makes some keen observations about the Zeitgeist influenced by the usual suspects, like Herbert Marcuse, Jean-Paul Sartre, Michael Foucalt and others who exported much of their nihilistic poison, which he correctly ties in with the 18th century Jacobins and moving forward (p. 124f). None the less, the soixante-huitards have had their day. But for Scruton, he odes cultural hope without faith and strangely Confucius and not Christ? A truly orthodox Protestant critique, which would have also resonated in the ancient Jewish / Catholic / Orthodox heart - is to trust God and not institutions, which man tends to deify in substitution, which happened at Trent and elsewhere.

Our times are much like the days in the book of Judges. If one looks at Christian and Western history through the glass of the ancient history of the Old Testament Jews, one will get a better look at a truly conservative vision of the history of man (Anglo and otherwise) and God and some light toward a clearer interpretation of man's history - a story of man, with feet of clay, troding back and forth like Bunyan's allegory trying to find himself and his way. 
