Eugenie Scott, author of this book and executive director of the National Center for Science Education, was one of the leaders in the effort to have this statement removed from the curriculum of the Dover, Pennsylvania school district.
_____

Text of the intelligent design statement Dover,  Pennsylvania teachers were instructed to read to their students:

The Pennsylvania Academic Standards require students to learn about Darwin's theory of evolution and eventually to take a standardized test of which evolution is a part.

Because Darwin's theory is a theory, it continues to be tested as new evidence is discovered. The theory is not a fact. Gaps in the theory exist for which there is no evidence. A theory is defined as a well-tested explanation that unifies a broad range of observations.

Intelligent design is an explanation of the origin of life that differs from Darwin's view. The reference book, "Of Pandas and People," is available for students who might be interested in gaining an understanding of what intelligent design actually involves.

With respect to any theory, students are encouraged to keep an open mind. The school leaves the discussion of the origins of life to individual students and their families. As a standards-driven district, class instruction focuses upon preparing students to achieve proficiency on standards-based assessments.
_____

If this simple statement was so threatening to the Darwinists, it should certainly cause the average citizen to wonder just how convincing and valid their "evidence" in support of Darwin's theory actually is.  Could it be possible that "the emperor has no clothes"?  It wouldn't be the first time that scientists have lacked the evidence to support their claims, consider the recent debacle in South Korea over cloning and stem cell research, where Dr. Hwang Woo Suk, who admitted to falsifying data and fabricating research, resigned in disgrace from Seoul National University.

In my opinion, Eugenie Scott and her Neo-Darwinist allies, the self-appointed "Thought Police", circa 2006,  have no real interest in opening the debate on the origin of life, they are far more concerned with maintaining their stranglehold on the public education sytem (and the immense amount of taxpayer dollars that pay for it), as well as promoting their dogma while eliminating any dissent . . .  with tactics that would be more appropriate in George Orwell's Airstrip One/Oceania (from his novel "1984").

I would suggest you read Ms. Scott's book, "Evolution vs Creationism: An Introduction" however, as I'm a firm believer in the saying "Know Thine Enemy", but borrow it from a library rather than purchasing it.  Save your money for some quality books, Fred Hoyle's "Mathematics of Evolution", Michael Behe's "Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution", or "Uncommon Dissent: Intellectuals Who Find Darwinism Unconvincing", by William Dembski (Editor), provided, of course, your mind is open enough to consider alternatives to Darwin's theory
