There is nothing wrong against anyone, but I am kinda tired of this So called 'Self Help Millionaires '. 

I have read over 30+ books on the topic to make money fast and after reading sanding's book...I only said "oouch, what a way to make money Sandy  "... 

This book is nothing new as there are bunch of authors like Sandy who are making money by selling you hopes and dreams as they know 'What Sells in market as Everybody want to see some hope and Dreams to make mega$$$$$.' 

I would recommend you to read books from Genuine Authors like Murphy , Catherine Ponder ...  

Sandy gave her first book what a Lovely and Wild Title 'How to Be Wildly Wealthy FAST'...  

Sandy has found out that selling you dreams and hopes does make money and she has found the weaker spot of common people as everybody is looking for some kind of hope/dreams and I think Title of this book should be  'You buy what I Sell ( Dreams and Hopes )  and I Make Millions , Fast'.  

I am not sure how Genuine these reviews are but Most of reviews of her book seems to come from Self Help People Group who sell/do similar things as Business and give each other 5 Star Reviews , IMHO 

Self Help is a big business and way it works is ' Sell your book first and then ask readers to join your classes/personal-Trainings and ask them to Buy more Stuff and make mega $$$$$s and be millionare '. How sad and pathetic way to make money. Isn't it ?. 

Sandy Puts her story in the book but I think her story is purley an isolated and case and pure coincident and I have seen many people making money like that.  Read her story and you will think , what's big deal about that ?.   

I believe and seen that there is a big market and lot of potential to make money in giving self-help / speaches / seminars on how to be wealthy or succeful and Sandy knows 'How to' and she did it.

There are very few authentic writers in this area, who just sell you the book and concept and not their costly seminar / products or trainings.  After reading 30+ books , I realized that. 

I really feel sorry if you bought this book and helped and Sandy's attempt to make money by selling you the book and DVD.

I am getting emails all the time to buy more books or products to be wealthy ( who will wealthy, You can figure that out ).

I would recommend that you scan the book at borders and I am positive , you will never buy book of this magnitude for $20. 

Sandy's this attempt to be in Self help business is not worth $20 bucks.  I have read and attended enough seminars to find that this is 'Good Business to Make Money'. 

keep away from such books and DVD's as I know , ethically , there are more ways to be happy and still make money. ( Read Chopra/Murphy/Catherine Ponder's books instead ). 

Pat


