My wife and I have now spent a good month "learning" with
this book. In fact more than 10 minutes a day, 
more like 30 minutes per session.
We both speak other languages, so we can compare.

GOOD, nice thematic picture groups, 
and you need to learn the words associated with them. 
(We did.)

BAD, again, and again Ms. Kershul introduces words, 
and grammar which do not fit into the "just mastered" 
scheme of things.

IRRITATING to the extreme:
Ms. Kershul gives her instructions in a mixture of English 
and Italian in one sentence. 
(We would have preferred one line of Italian ONLY, 
followed by one line --say in italics-- 
providing the English translation, in many cases preferably,
with an explanations "how this compares to what was done yesterday".)

BAD:
In attempt to NOT introduce grammar, you are left high 
and dry figuring out gender, declinations, and worse
conjugations by yourself. 
(We have not yet seen satisfactory forms summarizing 'things', 
and we are half way through the book).

In anger, we finally went to the local library 
and got a 70 years old Italian grammar for High Schools. 
That did solve our problem and left us convinced
that "new and improved" does not necessarily 
provide a better learning experience.

Somewhat IRRITATING: 
Ms Kershuls's choice of vocabulary seems to assume that
1. you wish to visit lots of relatives 
(not an uncle, niece, grandson, cousin, grandparent, or daughter 
is forgotten in the family tree), 
2. you wish to order meals and "buy stuff" constantly
(we assure you, that is the one thing Italians
are very good at, understanding English when you want to 
buy things or order a meal) 
3. you wish to tell Italians that you are "American" 
(as if our accents and clothing are not dead-give-aways) 
4. you pray "catholic", "protestant", or "Hebrew". 
(the Italians we know couldn't care less
-- how about instead "politics", "music", "movies", "soccer" 
and the "bella ragazza" over there)

In summary, we are ready now to look for a book which
does not claim to be "easy, in 10 minutes a day", 
but emphasizes grammar, 
groups vocabulary (and discusses alternatives for each new
word),  
provides clearer indication of emphasis in the pronounciation
(example: telEfono, versus incorrect tElefono)
Teaches Italian as a language of "constructed" full sentences, rather than "single catch words".
------------------

Our final test, 
No, we would not recommend this book to a friend
