This is another product placement by Gary Null Inc. repackaged with a new title and cover. Gary Null is a God and knows everything about everything. Gary knows what you should eat and how you should think. Ignore the fact that he owns a private multi-million dollar media, supplement and gadget company that sells nearly all what he advises to consume. No conflict there at all? Gary is a brilliant marketer and here are his tactics:

1)Create documenteries, radio shows, movies, lectures, books that strike fear into your audience so that they are in a constant buying mode. Make them fear to breath the air, to  drink the water and make them fear their enviornment in total. Claim that you are the authority and others are cranks aimed at harming you and your audience. Evoke fear, conspiracy theories at every turn, and taint the competition (mainstream medicine) as immoral, money grubbing and intentionally harm promoting. 

2)Provide a catalog of products to calm the fear evoked. Have them buy costly air filtration and water systems, expensive magnetic products, costly vitamins and supplements, and provide media so that you can reinforce the fear and buying behaviour. Advocate a costly and restrictive diet that few could follow for long so that they will fall back on your food replacement and food concentrates as well as vitamins. Above all promise you base that if they follow your advice and buy the products  they will look young and live forever. Promise the suckers that they will avoid sickness and will be the chosen ones. 

3) Claim you make little or no money and that the profits go into making public service movies even though you charge to view them, and even though the profit markup on vits and supplements run in the hundreds percent range. Claim that you have advanced degrees and are a scienctific authourity even though you went to nontraditional schools and could not get a degree from a legit University. Should anyone challenge you claim that they are part of a conspiracy to silence you even though that if false- it increases the your profile among followers.  
