If you want to get to the chief ideas of Berlin, buy THE HEDGEHOG AND THE FOX as a stand-alone book; do not waste your money on this highly verbose and repetitious book. 

And what a terrible writing! Pompously and unnecessarily long sentences. At least with Hegel and Kant, you would arrive at a clear meaning after you finished carefully reading a sentence that filled a whole page. With Berlin, whose sentences are teeming with digressive parentheses, you look at a sentence and right off the page jump at you a number of ways a better writer could have condensed his prolix sentences into sentences at least three times shorter than his. In sum, it seems like Mr. Berlin never went beyond the first draft of his essays, omitting to revise, edit, and compress his writing. Yes, yes, you might say, "Well, this reviewer is probably too dumb to understand Berlin." Maybe you are right. But, I find it hard to see why it should be difficult to understand what a sentence about the biographical details of a Russian politician is trying to convey. I would have much easier time confessing to stupidity if the sentences in question were, instead, about some subtle philosophical points concerning the ontological foundations of our a priori ideas or the dialectical movement of the World Spirit, or the sources of our moral directives.

As to the ideas themselves, Berlin does have a few good ones, most notably in THE HEDGEHOG AND THE FOX. The fox knows many things; and the hedgehog only one big thing. It is a very profound distinction, and after reading this essay you can have a fun time classifying the people you know into these two general categories. However, this distinction is confined, I think, only to the realm of psychology and cannot be used to derogate, as Berlin does, all philosophical attempts to arrive a single system that explains the world. Yes, there is, de facto, a phenomenal variety in our world; but that in itself is not a proof of the errorneousness of all the unitary systems as a class, but rather a part of the problem these systems try, with varying success, to explain. Overall, Berlin's apotheosis of cultural relativity, which he derives from the "fallacies" of the "dogmatist" philosophies, does not rest on any sound and consistent set of arguments, but rather hopes to attain acceptance based solely on the current cultural fads. "Everything is relative!" proclaim the culturally sensitive commentators, caring very little as to how we should, then, explain the fact that there are certain values that are valid universally. Killing and stealing are frowned upon in Mozambique as well as in Montana, and even in Brooklyn. Fortunate for the philosophical supporters of cultural relativity, there are in the world much better partisans of this relativity than Berlin. Read Paul Feyerabend for a much better defense.
