My reaction to this book was the eventual impetus to just go out and purchase other books on meditation because the style and approach of the author were so irksome to me. I bought it because of the simple eloquence of the cover and the title, and I think I did read the first page when I was in the store. It looked straightforward, and I did indeed want to learn simply "how to meditate", being a beginner. (I subsequently learned that there are actually a few books called "how to meditate".) 

I felt it was important to write a review because there seem to be so many positive ones, and it seems a book that may work for some, but for some like me, it's a real turn-off, although fortunately for me I just resolved to look for other meditation books (I've been using the "Getting in the Gap" meditation most extensively, and been trying to read a couple other books). There are a few reasons I wanted to learn how to meditate... one of them being the hope of maybe experiencing moments of deep insight or contact with something mystical or angelic, and at one point the author actually more or less actually discourages this aspect of meditation. He specifically refers to the possibility of these types of experiences during meditation, saying that you can just basically ignore it and keep going with the meditation, because these aren't the important part of meditation. It would seem to me if you had a mystical experience during meditation it would be something important enough to pay attention to, whether "real" or not. 

This annoyed me, but my disagreement with that view was not so much the problem, as the consistent authoritarian and absolute style of his teachings on meditation. He seemed so focused on the shoulds and shouldn'ts of the whole discipline, which to me in a way is sort of going against the whole notion of meditation, and it made me put the book down. I did his first breathing exercise, which was fine, and I tried to go on with the book, but the style of his teaching was too much for me. It was annoying because the cover looks so elegant and zen-like and then what was inside, to me, seemed at odds with that. 

Basically, if an an air of finality in an instructive book on meditation doesn't appeal to you, then you may want to read-before-you-buy. Because of my frustration with it, I was only able to get 15 pages or so into it, so I can't say much to the teachings of the book, only the way in which it was presented
