"Traipsing" is basically just a cut-and-paste job from articles available for free on websites like the Discovery Institute's own site.  Why pay for trash like this, when you can get it for free?  Traipsing criticizes Judge Jones' ruling in the Kitzmiller case, but the book`s many blunders simply confirm Jones' ruling that requiring ID to be taught in science classes constituted "breathtaking inanity."

I highlight six major blunders.  There were many, many more.

1.  REDUNDANCY.  The authors blast Jones for ruling against ID on two grounds, when one would have been sufficient.  That complaint is amazingly naïve.  When a trial judge has several ways to justify his decision, it is entirely routine to list several.  That way, if the case is appealed, the ultimate decision can still stand, even if the appellate court rejects one or more of the trial court's justifications.  This practice is so routine, it's amazing that the authors, two of whom claim to be attorneys, could be unaware of it; especially since the judge in an earlier creationism case, McLean v. Arkansas, followed exactly the same procedure.  McLean, BTW, was cited favorably by the Supreme Court, so apparently the Supremes don't find the authors' argument on this particular point very persuasive either.

2.  NEGATIVE ARGUMENTS/FALSE DICHOTOMY.  The design inference usually follows a negative argument, like this:  "There is no known natural cause for X, therefore X is attributable to design."  Negative arguments like that are said to be based on a dichotomy.  Judge Jones ruled that ID's dichotomy argument was an illogical "false dichotomy."  Michael Behe tries to rebut Jones in Appendix A.  

Behe starts by describing a valid dichotomy, strictly limited to only two types of causes, intelligent and natural, which Behe states are mutually exclusive, i.e., the causes do not act in concert with each other.  In theory, Behe's dichotomy seems to pass muster; the problem is, the negative arguments that ID actually uses (including many of Behe's own arguments) are nothing at all like Behe's purely theoretical description.  First, the no-known-natural-cause argument clearly implies the existence of a third type of cause, i.e., unknown natural causes, which violates the two-causes limitation of a valid dichotomy.  Regarding the "mutually exclusive" requirement, Behe himself openly admits that natural and intelligent causes interact, which violates the exclusivity requirement.  In effect, Behe has demonstrated precisely why Jones was right: ID's negative arguments employ a false dichotomy with more than two types of causes, some of which are not mutually exclusive.  ID is said to promote critical thinking.  Does ID's constant use of illogical, false dichotomy arguments really qualify as "critical thinking"?

3.  BIG BANG/RELIGIOUS IMPLICATIONS.  Behe spent hours in court, whining that it would be unfair to reject ID just because it has religious implications, since the Big Bang theory is taught in schools despite its religious implications.  But courts have never held that teaching genuine scientific theories with secondary religious implications is unconstitutional; what is unconstitutional is teaching primarily religious theories with no meaningful scientific implications.  Behe thought ID was in the former category, not the latter.  He was wrong.  Big Bang theory is a genuine scientific theory, with many positive, empirically-testable predictions confirmed by subsequent observations.  ID, however, makes no -- repeat, no -- such predictions, making confirmation impossible.  There is more to Big Bang theory than its alleged religious implications, while ID contains nothing but religious implications.  Equivalent theories should be treated equivalently, but ID is no more equivalent to Big Bang theory than Mohammed Atta was equivalent to an airline pilot.  

4.  TESTABLE PREDICTIONS.  The book claims that ID does make positive, empirically testable predictions, but that`s a naked assertion, an empty bluff.  Behe spent three whole days on the witness stand without describing even one such prediction.  Steve Fuller, ditto.  Scott Minnich claimed that ID predicts the existence of complex, functioning biosystems.  Some functioning biosystems are indeed complex, thus, according to Minnich, empirical evidence confirms ID's prediction.  That's just dumb.  First, ID does not predict the existence of any particular sort of system at all.  Intelligent designers may produce simple systems, complex systems, functioning systems, non-functioning systems, biosystems, non-biological systems, or they may produce  nothing at all; so claiming that ID specifically predicts the existence of complex, functioning biosystems is simply false.  As an allegedly scientific alternative to evolution, ID should provide meaningful, positive, testable explanations for the origin of living things; but it does nothing of the sort.  Minnich's "discovery" that some biosystems are complex is essentially irrelevant to that issue, and the book's other examples were just as irrelevant.

5.  DEFINITION OF SCIENCE.  The authors argue that Judge Jones should not have made any ruling at all about whether ID is genuine science, because philosophers of science do not unanimously agree how to define science.  I guess courts shouldn't rule on medical malpractice cases either (doctors aren't unanimous), insanity defenses (psychologists aren't unanimous), antitrust cases (economists aren`t unanimous), child custody cases (parents aren't unanimous), etc.  DeWolf must think judges should resolve only those controversies where there is no controversy, which is just dumb.

6.  IS ID RELIGION?  The authors howl in outrage that ID is not necessarily religious, and point out that some ID writings do not explicitly mention God.  Well, yeah, but a lot of other ID writings do!  Furthermore, courts have never held that merely avoiding the G-word guarantees constitutional immunity.  The creationist legislation in McLean and Edwards didn't use the G-word either, and the creationists lost both of those cases.  Judge Jones was simply following precedent.  That's what good judges do.  (Again, it's mystifying that the authors, two of whom claim to be attorneys, appear to be completely unaware of major precedents in this area.)

Judging from this book, ID promotes critical thinking about as well as Hustler magazine promotes sexual restraint.  There are glaring errors on virtually every page.  That's not critical thinking; that's breathtaking inanity, just like Judge Jones said.
