By Bill Marsano. I admit that I'm crabby and cranky and opinionated and cynical; I come from another century and am set in my ways. I'm older than Calvin Coolidge put together. And sometimes I have bad days. That said, I'm always leery of titles loaded with words like "only" and "ultimate" and "last." They give me the blue creevies.

Still, Heacox starts off pretty nicely; his tree-huggery is drowned out by his early adventure--some 25 years ago--as a sort of apprentice ranger at Glacier Bay, Alaska. He's on a kayak trip with another apprentice, one Richard, a fellow whose outlook is summed nicely in "I may not know karate, but I know cra-a-a-azy!" He never forgets the beer and can cook, too. I'd enjoy camping with Richard but not with Heacox. His idea of pitching in seems to be picking out Beatles tunes on his guitar. (He is obsessed with the Beatles, you will learn, and if you have a soft spot for "While My Guitar Gently Weeps," you're going to get a bellyful.)

After the early paddling, things go downhill. Heacox, it develops, loves the wilderness too much; he is the worst friend a glacier ever had. He is the exemplar of those "elitists" who want the wilderness for themselves at the expense of ordinary tax-payers. He says (repeatedly) that he wants to be "the only kayay(er)" and he means it. Letting other people in will just wreck the place--his wilderness, which he thinks to possess by dint of devotion.

As a spokesman for wilderness, Heacox leans on mantras and slogans, and in a radio debate, as president of the Friends of Glacier Bay, he is a tongue-tied failure. Later, affecting to emulate the gutsy Richard, who dared invite a ferocious anti-conservationist to lunch, he phones Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton, who dreams nightly of oil-drilling in the Arctic. To the answering assistant he identifies himself as "Jim Peacock," a "conversationalist" who "work[s] on cruise ships . . .I talk to people." We're supposed to smile at Heacox's wit here, for this is an in-joke cleverly planted earlier in the book. We're not supposed to notice that he's being a smart-ass; that he's sabotaging his own efforts. He is, by the way, tongue-tied most of the rest of the time, too. Having little of his own to say he incessantly quotes his betters, who include John Muir, Daniel Boorstin, Blaise Pascal, Julian Barnes, Cezanne and three-fourths of the Beatles. And more, but soon I wearied of counting. The most important of them is Muir, who--can anyone not know it?--was founder and first president of the Sierra Club and the Father of our National Parks, beginning with Yosemite. People came from miles around to see Yosemite; Muir called them "scum." And that's where Heacox is coming from.

It is, really, all over for wilderness so far as Heacox is concerned. Situation hopeless! People keep coming! What little is left he wants to keep for his selfish only-kayak self. Indeed, married twenty years, he and his wife are childless, suggesting no faith in the future, while and his "close friends" are always distant friends. Their occasional great reunions are no substitute for the demands of day-in/day-out friendship (but ever an excuse to break out his bloody guitar).

Heacox has perfected an attitude of whimpering self-righteousness and is a master of the non sequitur. After not getting any landscaping advice from his friend Michio Hoshino, who is "gone" (i.e., dead), we get "A raven landed in a nearby snag and watched." Heavy, huh? Or after a brief reference to Alexis de Tocqueville: "The French don't know everything. Nobody does." My favorite comes after he tells a story on one of his cruise-ship gigs:
  A woman asked me if John Muir was my hero.
  My hero? I suppose he is, in a way . . .
  Have you ever heard of Michio Hoshino?
  She had not. Nobody on that ship had.
  What was it Fitzgerald said?  "Show me a
  hero and I will write you a tragedy."

There's a certain kind of person for whom no landscape is so lovely or so precious that it can't be improved by the wheel ruts of a 4-wheel-drive vehicle. Their minds won't be changed by the smug pieties of the only kayaker because he's just as selfish as they are.--Bill Marsano is an award-winning writer and editor. He is learning to kayak. Slowly.

