I don't know about anyone else, but this book really did nothing for me. Don't get me wrong, I'm a big TD Jakes fan, I think he's definitely an anointed prophet from God, and he's a fantastic minister. But being a great minister doesn't necessarily make a person a great writer. He's blessed w/ an uncanny ability to preach and teach on healing and deliverance from life's painful experiences, but when it comes to putting this thoughts on paper, he just doesn't seem to be able to get his points across clearly, directly and succinctly. For example, he doesn't stay focused on the subject at hand because of his excessive use of metaphors, hyperbole and superfluous information throughout this book. A good writer uses metaphors only to set an example or to illustrate a significant point in order to paint a clear picture in the reader's mind, not use them in every other sentence. For a while there, I wasn't sure if I was reading a book by TD Jakes or Dr. Seuss.

Another problem I have w/ this book is that it seems like it is addressing little boys or, at best, men who have failed at every kind of human relationship possible - i.e., husband/wife, son/father, father/son, male/male friends, male/female friends, etc. He does however, provide a great outline on man's various relationships (with himself, with God, with his children, etc.), but his delivery is so out of focus. In fact, he even devotes an entire chapter smack in the middle of the book about money and finances. What does that have to do w/ how I deal w/ my "He-Motions"? Besides, he's already written a book a few years ago entitled "The Greatest Investment-Faith, Family & Finance", therefore it was unnecessary to bring up the subject of money/finance again in "He-Motions".

The info contained in this book is just too elementary for me. He doesn't offer any real soultions on dealing w/ my "He-Motions", and the examples he provides just don't deal w/ anything that I have ever dealt with personnally. I was really expecting something much deeper and substantive. But all I got here was a bunch of fluff. C'mon Bishop, enough of the lame stories and metaphors, give us some substance. I don't mean to sound too critical, but I'm just not feelin' this book.
