I can't count how many glowing reviews I've read for this book.  I've come to the conclusion that those reviewers never actually read through the book.

Let me continue by saying that I got this book for a gift and, while I appreciate the thought, I feel awful about accepting it because it is hands-down, the worst book published since the dawn of Anglo-Western democratic civilization. 

My first beef involves his name.  Susur.  Buddy, no one knows who you are so quit signing with only your first name.  Madonna is the only one that can get away with that, and even she is a washed-up hag.

The first "book" is just some pretentious blather about his life.  It's not even interesting.  No one had heard of this guy before he wrote the book, and that's because he hasn't done anything worth noting.

The actual recipe book is an abortion.  The recipes are all so incredibly complex, and require so much money that the only way someone is going to complete one is if they have:
1) too much time
2) too much money (you might actually have to sell your children to afford a recipe; I hear slave-trade brings in the most cash); and
3) Obsessive Compulsive Disorder

Now I consider myself a pretty able chef (The French Laundry is one of my favorites), but I'm pretty sure that even Iron Chef Morimoto would get acid reflux reading this book.  "Complex" doesn't even begin to describe the recipes.  Actually, I'm pretty sure that there isn't a word in any of the European languages that illustrate the preposterous amounts of effort required to complete a dish.  If I went to a restaurant that offered a menu such as the one in Susur, I would get up and leave, and return fifteen minutes later with a jerrycan of gasoline, and a tub of motor oil and I would burn it to the ground. 

Cocoa Squab Liver Pate with Taro Fritters Egg and Caviar Creme Fraiche and Honey Mustard Sauce?  Puh-lease, if that doesn't sound like latent homosexuality, I don't know what does.

If you're too lazy to read the stuff I wrote above let me SUMMARIZE:

- I would pay more money to contract Hepatis C than I would for this book.

I hope this review was helpful
