Reportage, or surveys of what groups of people believe, may be of interest, but then again not. Pablum, or reciting simplified ideas, similarly may or may not be of interest. This book is highly reductive reportage of pablum. It's very superficial, almost entirely vacuous, and in the end of little interest.

At least "How to Win Friends and Influence People," while highly artificial, stimulates ideas with which to work. Reportage of pablum does little, if anything, to suggest much of anything. The former at least makes a stab at improving skills, the latter basically suggests positive outlooks generally result in more positive outcomes. Not always, but usually. Think positively, and you'll likely see things in a positive light. People who think positively seem to be happier. At least, that's what most people report. Building on one's strengths and avoiding one's weaknesses also produces better outcomes. Positive emotions have evolved to motivate and guide us in win-win games of life. Is any of this not already intuitive? But is any of it really genuine? For example, bad things happen to good people, but giving the bad things a positive spin in order not to get in a funk about life seems a tad bit simplistic and very unrealistic. 

Positive thinking is the "substance" of Seligman's "positive psychology," which purports "yet another revolutionary idea . . . by cultivating and nurturing traits we already possess -- including kindness, originality, humor, optimism and generosity." There's absolutely nothing revolutionary about any of this. And what 7 out of 10 people think does not cut it if we're one of the other 3. And who cares what other people think? If 7 out of 10 people report "happiness" at eating highly-processed, fat-laden foods, should I too? And spinning something horrific, unpleasant, unfortunate, etc. as positive seems entirely disengenuous and patently false. 

There's nothing wrong about Seligman's perspective that thinking positively won't change. But life comes with a plethora of emotions, not all of which are "positive," and we have them because the "positive" amotions are not the only emotions we use to evaluate life. Thinking that harm, ill-health, death, etc. are positive stages in life isn't facing being human. Sorrow, anger, frustration, and the so-called "negative" emotions can, and do, serve a purpose, or nature would not have formed them in us. Camoflaging or concealing hurt, sorrow, regret, disappointment, etc. with a "positive" sheen just isn't "authentic," and I'd rather be authentic in the moment, than false over a lifetime. PASS
