since there is little to no mystery involved in the story.  I should have expected this, since this has been the trend for the last 4 or 5 books in the series.  I had put off reading this one for precisely that reason but needed something to read for the weekend so I decided to give it a try.  The best thing that can be said about this "Turkey" is that it's a quick read, so it's good for a plane ride, but if you want something that remotely resembles a mystery pass this one up and read one of the first books by this author which really were engaging and satisfying mysteries.
  
Even as a glimpse into the small town life of Moose County this one falls flat.  It used to be that one of the charms of the series was the way Braun had developed the world of Moose County and all the foibles of its inhabitants and if tragedy struck one you really felt for them.  In this book, characters from previous books are randomly introduced and they wander around aimlessly and there is no emotional depth to Qwill's relationship with any of them.   

The other problem that has happened to the series is that Braun fell in love with her own character.  Qwill started the series as a flawed charcter.  In "Turkey" there is even more rapturous description of Qwill's mustache and wonderful voice than usual, not to mention the ovations for the ridiculous Big Storm production.  We are supposed to believe that it is so well received that there are to be several performances a week throughout the summer - how big is the population of Moose county?  

SPOILER ALERT:  But to cap off the ridiculousness of this book, Qwill leaves his beloved Koko out in the gazebo with a confessed murderer who is strung out on drugs.  The Qwill of past books would never have intentionally put either cat in danger like this.  

According to her fan club web page, she was born in 1916 so now she's pushing 90.  It's possible she's in poor health. Because of this I'm willing to give her the benefit of the doubt and agree with those who suggest this book was ghost-written based on notes she made.  That would account for inconsistencies in plot and style.

The only good part of this book - the only reason it deserves even one star - is the description of YumYum playing with her thimble (but even it is taken from another of Braun's books).  It's on page 72 - read it, then find something else to read.         
