I just took and passed the PM&R recertification exam, so I feel I am speaking with some authority regarding this book, which I used to take the exam.  First, for those of you that don't know, this year (results posted 2005) was the last offering of the "take-home" version of the recertification exam.  Therefore, for this exam, we were able to research questions before answering them. I used this Review by Cuccurullo and cross-referenced with standard texts-- Kimura, DeLisa, Braddom, Grabois, and DuMitru-- coupled with literature reviews, etc.

Unfortunately, I will have to agree with most of the other reviewers.  For a quick, concise overview, this isn't a bad quick reference.  But in trying to answer Board exam questions (which are for the most part surprisingly well-structured-- if you know a little about the subject, you can eliminate one or two answers, if you know more, you can eliminate another, and only if you are fairly well-versed can you be pretty sure you got the right answer) I found Cuccurullo insufficient to the task.  The information she provided lacked the detail to be certain of the answers.  Worse yet, I found significant information that conflicted with what other (more reliable) sources were saying.  Pretty scary.

The greatest utility of this book was organizational.  In one source, this was a synopsis of complicated information that allowed at least one to framework the data in order to try and answer the question.  Sorting through the differences and similarities of
various rheumatological conditions, for example, or the
similarities and differences between all the HSMNs, or various
muscular dystrophies.  In fact, some of these Board exam questions seemed intentionally vague, so you not only needed to know the material, you needed to actually see it in front of you in order to be confident about your answer.  (Don't get me started on the Board's use of social-oriented questions... I'd give an example, but of course, that'd get me in trouble.)

The Board recertification test was not without its own other frustrations.  I found answers that were virtually quoted word for word from an old Kimura, for example, that newer texts (DuMitru, for example) differed with.  Unfortunately, none of the answers provided seemed any more definitive, so one was forced to make a decision-- was this simply an out-dated question, or one based on new data that I didn't have complete access to?)

Despite this, Cuccurullo's text seemed grossly insufficient to even go this far into the Board exam.  In a typical 5 answer multiple choice question, for example, this book enabled me to eliminate 2 or 3 answers.  Then I had to go and double check to make sure the information I got from it was not in error!  In fact, errors seemed so common, I wondered if it didn't add substantially to the time I spent taking this test, and if it didn't actually lower my score!

If you get this book, take it with a grain of salt-- use it as an organizational reference at best, and double-check the content
