I think Steve Seim's review is excellent. The book is a famous statement of an editorial point of view, namely the communitarian claim that individualism has led to the incoherence of Americans' religious and moral claims. But like so many books, the authors dissemble to pretend they're scientifically reporting objective news rather than a kind of editorial. In this sense, the book is not substantially different from the kind of pseudo-science we've come to expect from sociologists, who, after conducting some interviews and handing out some loaded surveys, tell us "what's really going on" with the "modern American woman" or "Generation X" or, in this case, the "modern [misguided] liberal American." I, for one, view such work as social criticism vital to our society, and it makes thoughtful reading, but it is not scientific, and I wish we could get beyond this need to justify such claims with "scientific" surveys.

Considering this book represents more a kind of punditry than research, despite its claims, please consider reading the most famous response to the book, the chapters from Jeffrey Stout's "Ethics After Babel" devoted to the book. Stout, in one instance, close-reads one of the interviews, in which a guy is asked what's important to him, and whenever he talks about "being good" and "being honest," the interviewers grill him "but why? but why?" until after many replies relating to maturing and learning from his experience, he finally says something like "it benefits me to live a life of honesty" so the authors end the interview and conclude he's a rabid individualist whose only basis for his ethics is egocentric utilitarianism. They did not, for example, explore whether he has a rather rich concept of personal honor, or even a sense of Stoic maturity, either of which seems a more accurate way of describing his answers up to the point they choose to end on. Either alternative reflects a vocabulary of long standing moral traditions, which would contradict the authors' claims - ala Alisdair MacIntyre-- that modern liberal Americans have no such vocabulary.  In fact, I find it rather hilarious that they use this subject as the quintessential amoral individualist, since communitarian founding father Aristotle says repeatedly throughout the Ethics that living a life of virtue must benefit the individual, for to say the opposite would be akin to saying that giving a plant sunshine doesn't benefit the plant.  Of course this connection of virtue and human benefit is problematized in other ethical systems, but, still, it's funny to me that Arisotle could be characterized as lacking a moral framework because he connects living virtuously with personal benefit.

In any case, reading both this book and Stout, you're in a good position to come to your own conclusions
