I've read all sorts of books throughout my educational career...from James Joyce to dry sociological texts. I've read books so dull I could feel them sapping my life energy.
Never before, though, have I had to suffer through a book as mind-numbingly awful as 'Member of the Wedding.'
Mere words cannot communicate how bad this book really is. It follows the pathetic, worthless existence of Frankie, the most unlikeable, irritating, sorry excuse for a human being ever to disgrace a piece of literature.
This book reads like a bad Linkin Park video, and consists largely  of Frankie whining about wanting to belong, and wanting to travel with her older brother, who is about to get married. The ONLY thing I can say for this book is that it is relatively well-written...obviously, Carson McCullers was a good writer. But Thomas Harris wrote 'Silence of the Lambs' and the he wrote 'Hannibal.' 'Hannibal' is a god-awful book, and it STILL doesn't approach the level of putridity reached by this claptrap. 
Of course, many reviewers would have you believe that this book is about the awkwardness/isolation/loneliness of acolescence. Bull. I was an awkward/isolated/lonely teen, and I did strange things, but Frankie's actions are downright bizarre, inexplicable, and only serve to make you loathe her further.
For absolutely no reason, the author kills off a couple characters at the end, just to make sure that if you weren't suicidally depressed by the book by that point, you sure wouldn't have a reason to live after finishing the whole book.
Like I said, think bad Linkin Park song: garish, whiney, needlessly depressing, and completely pointless. There is no message here except that there is no hope, no moral except that life is empty, pointless, isolated, and lonely. I'm a big fan of literature/music/art that emphasizes such themes as isoltation and abandonment...and thus, I tend to enjoy such works even if they're pretty lousy.
This, however, was the bottom of the barrel in cheap, exploitative, pathetic, useless literature. If you want to read something that deals with isolation/abandonment/loneliness, read Eugene O'Neill's 'The Iceman Cometh' 'Long Day's Journey into Night' or 'The Hairy Ape' I promise you will find all much more well written and moving than this garbage.
In conclusion, when I finished reading this vile book, I hated the main character, I hated the human race, I hated  the author responsible for my suffering; but most of all, I hated myself, for subjecting myself to this bloated corpse of a novel.
Read it on the toilet, or better yet read something GOOD and save this to use as toilet paper. Consider it an appropriate afterthought
