If I didn't know any better, I'd swear this was a book written by a Satanist. The author seems to be rejoicing in the prospect of armageddon, including mountains being blown up and the destruction of all the world's cities. I bought a tatty copy for one penny and I was somewhat surprised to see that by 1973 it was on its 27th printing. It seems reasonable then to assume that Mr Lindsey's views are fairly representative of mainstream America. 

If that's the case then that suggests that plenty of Americans are keen for armageddon to erupt in the Middle East so that the "good Christians" may be whisked off for a private audience with J. Christ while the rest of the population burns. 

I would recommend this book to all Israelis. In his book The Last Days of Israel, Zionist author Barry Chamish declared that Israel's main enemies were European Socialists. Well, I reckon that Hal Lindsey and his fans present a greater threat. It seems likely that if the supposed Temple of Solomon is not rebuilt and Israel isn't annihilated then a lot of committed Christians are going to be most upset. The bit of "good news" in Lindsey's book is that the surviving Israelis will convert to Christianity with such passion that they will be like "144,000 Billy Grahames". 

It seems that committed Christians are in charge of both the UK and US governments and that the US government could be described as a theocracy. I wonder if the theocrats share the views of Mr Lindsey, who states in this book that each Arab generation hates Israel more than the one before, which would be good news as it would mean that they would be more likely to attack and initiate armageddon and cause the return of Jesus Christ.

Russia is portrayed as the villain of the book, but "Red China" and the "Red Chinese" get a look-in in a chapter entitled "The Yellow Peril". 

The book however does contain one true statement, on page 120: "Religion is a great blinder of the minds of men." and frankly, I hope "the rapture" does happen soon. The sooner that people like Hal Lindsey are whisked off the face of the Earth, the greater the likelihood for peace in the world
