I was expecting this to be a book about the monastic experience, but instead, it is a book mostly about Kathleen Norris, her life, and her social theories. There are a few nuggets of wisdom sprinkled here and there, but not enough to justify reading all the surrounding dross. Worse, there is no humility in the book at all. 

Instead of being a seeker of wisdom who went into religion and then wrote about her experience, Norris seems to be merely a writer with a gimmick of hanging out with monks and nuns to get a good book idea. If you like that sort of thing, you may like this book, but you should know what you're getting before you buy it.

There is a hard edge to Norris's writing, an underlying anger and vulgarity. For example: "[N]ow we sigh, discouraged, hearing only the seeds of our well-worn, ludicrous sexual double standard which dictates that women must be either virgins or whores, either blessed or cursed, while men are simply sexual athletes." And: "That we all begin inside a woman and must emerge from her body is something that the male theologians of the world's religions have yet to forgive us for." 

She uses the f-word, apparently just to shock readers and listeners, as when she notes with self-congratulatory satisfaction that after one such use her driver appeared startled because "[S]he apparently had heard that I was a religious writer." Well, regrettably, I had heard that, too. 

There is far too little introspection in this book. Norris too easily criticizes others while failing to look at herself and while rationalizing her own behavior. Perhaps I have been spoiled by reading Henri Nouwen, who seemed to always analyze the nature of his own feelings instead of criticizing someone else who may have brought those feelings about. But then again, Nouwen was a person of admirable humility, a quality Norris needs to work hard to develop.

Norris has plenty of personal issues to deal with, as do we all. This book would have been much better if she had spent more time honestly wrestling with these issues instead of commenting on externals, offering social criticism and justifying her life as "a poet.
