Unlike the other reviewers, I think this book is of, literally, only academic interest.  The author's premise:  capitalism will only be "safe" when protected by (Ta Da!!) -- more government regulation!  Only an academic (or a socialist) could come to this conclusion!  The fundamental premise of this book is that the danger to Capitalism is exclusively from "crony" Capitalists.  This is surely tantamount to blaming the victim for the crime.  The authors take tremendous pains to footnote a variety of statements, and then make a totally unsubstantiated claim of price-fixing against modern business by dredging up an ancient Adam Smith quote!  They point to the correlation between market regulations and higher stock valuations, mistaking it for causation.  Not one single time do they even mention the danger posed to capitalism by the MSM, socialist NGO's, lawyers, or the tangle of local, state, and federal regulations.  Only twice do they mention, in passing, the arguments of libertarians.  We are not a politically powerful party, but our opinions on capitalism surely must deserve, at the least, a vigorous rebuttal.  And finally, the recommendations are ad-hoc -- there is no flow of evidence or argument to support them.  Indeed, the conclusions are, in typical academic fashion, sadly naive.  An example is their belief that property taxes are somehow less onerous than income taxes.  This is a position in opposition to the authors' defense of property rights.  Indeed, Texas just passed a law to begin taxing business income because the previous system, based solely on business property, imposed no tax burden on doctors, lawyers, accountants, actors, authors, college professors engaged in sideline businesses, etc.  Little wonder that "old line" businesses were moving overseas or dying out -- they were supporting the parasites, doubly.  The reader is engaged only on the occasions (and by accident?) when the authors reveal insights derived from their experiences with other cultures, or when they review certain lesser-known historical facts.  In conclusion, I was disappointed in this "apology" for capitalism.  To give the authors credit, I would say that it must be very difficult to write a book espousing capitalism and still expect to get or keep tenure at a private, U. S. university, even one with Hayek and Friedman in the pedigree.
