I have often wondered what would have become of Sandition, Jane Austen's last work had she finished it before her untimely demise.  I heard that several authors have written a completed version of the aforementioned novel.  I decided to pick up Charlotte because Julia Barrett entertained me with her novel called Presumption, a Pride and Prejudice continuation starring Georgiana Darcy.  Ick!  This book is bad, very bad.  Talk about inconsistent!  The eleven chapters that Austen wrote of Sandition (no one is sure if this was the intended title for the novel) center on Charlotte Heywood and her impressions about the town of Sandition during her stay at the Parkers' estate.  There we meet the sort of colorful characters that have become Austen's signature style and their attempts to turn Sandition into a touristy place that would rival Brighton and others.  Austen introduced a few couples and some romantic possibilities between Charlotte and Sidney in narrative and dialogue that are witty, insightful and entertaining.  Then enters Barrett's takeover of the storyline and new characters and situations are introduced that, to be frank, have nothing to do with what Austen had in mind.

This "completion" of Jane Austen's unfinished effort is a disgrace.  The characters' actions are so incongruous to what Austen created in those short eleven chapters that it is offensive to even presume to let the reader think that these alterations belong in a Jane Austen classic or that they are in any way consistent to the aforementioned work.  Charlotte, Lady Denham, Thomas Parker, Sidney Parker, Clara Brereton and Sir Edward Denham show no resemblance to Austen's characterization.  There was a complete overhaul once Barrett takes over.  Thomas Parker is the worst alteration here, in my opinion.  I couldn't believe the character assassination!  The storylines aren't any better.  The whole thing about the gambling and bootlegging is ridiculous!  I have no idea what Austen had intended for the rest of this novel, but I'm sure that she would have never written something so preposterous.  The writing style is rather strange.  Everything seems to be fragmented and we are only shown bits and pieces of the subplots here and there.  It is all very bizarre.  Charlotte is so underdeveloped once Barrett takes over the writing that I'm none the wiser about her by the time the novel ends.  Ugh!  I'd never read a more frustrating attempt at completing an unfinished effort by a beloved author.  I had based my decision to read this on Barrett's Presumption (pun intended).  The aforementioned novel wasn't great, but I thought it was a fair continuation of Pride and Prejudice.  This, however, is just awful.  I have nothing against the author, but she shouldn't have touched this one.  I have purchased Barrett's The Third Sister (continuation of Sense and Sensibility) and might as well give it a whirl.  I only hope that it'll be better than this one.  As for reading any more completions of Sandition, I think I'll give the one written by "Another Lady" a whirl.  For I have heard and read great things about that one
