I just wasted a ridiculous number of days slogging through this disappointingly pretentious work.  In it, Daniel Rowlands, an American reporter, is working on a book about the concept of romance as developed in the Arthurian legends and in the artwork of the pre-Raphaelites.  He becomes involved with some mysterious femme fatale in London who may or may not have also been involved with the actual pre-Raphaelites during their heyday over 100 years ago.  Is she a ghost?  Is she a goddess?  Is she mad? 

You would think it would be hard to miss with a plot like that, and indeed according to the back cover blurb, scary story master Peter Straub himself says "it is the product of an exceptionally gifted writer using her mind and heart to blast through every limitation or restriction. . . writing as if to create her own life."  Or again there is this from The Washington Post:  "What lies behind the complex, even violent process that we call artistic inspiration? That is the final mystery evoked in Elizabeth Hand's ambitious and richly imagined novel. By tracing the turbulence and reverberations of that process back to its source, Mortal Love offers its readers the satisfactions of a detective thriller. Here, however, the mystery goes deeper than murder. Nothing, Hand convinces us, is quite as mysterious as art."

No, nothing is as mysterious as art.  Except perhaps why (knowing that the "heroine" is either a dangerous immortal being whose mere touch can destroy a man's mind; or else merely dangerously insane) -- why, knowing this, does Daniel's best friend make a big effort to get Daniel and this possible madwoman together in the first place on page 42 and then literally from page 57 onward keep warning  Daniel to have nothing to do with her?  Now that's a real mystery.  And why I should care about Daniel, his best friend or the mad woman.  That is another mystery, even greater than the last.  

The book has lots of stylish writing with vivid lovely descriptive passages; it has lots of clever "literary" devices, like using three different narrators at three different points in time, some of whom may be unreliable.  It even has what is apparently becoming obligatory in so-called "literary" novels, the precious touch of self-reference (the main character is in London to write a book called "Mortal Love").  It has quotes in Old English and French and Latin; it has numerous references to obscure artists and writers who actually lived; it has BIG THEMES about the nature of love, art, sex and death.  But you know, it has not one single character whose fate I actually cared about at all at any point in the story.  

This was one of many well-reviewed literary novels I've read lately that has lots of cleverness and no real heart.  Frankly, if this is the best the "literary" world has to offer lately, I would rather read a romance novel or a children's book that features some realistic people whose fate actually matters to me.
