I picked up this book because I had observed the females in my CS department (including myself) drop like flies. I was curious as to the cause of it, but there didn't seem to be a common theme, so I thought this book might have some insight. It didn't.

They cited several reasons women at CM were leaving, some of which were interesting, but the one that made me put down the book and walk away was when it claimed that it was because women are nurturing, and computer science needs to change to be more about using computers to nurture and care for people. To me, that sounded suspiciously like "Women aren't interested in computer science because it doesn't involve babies and ironing their husband's shirts!"

Reading about the changes they instituted made me retch a little bit. They talk about specifically approaching female students and having "women in CS" gatherings. While I'm all for creating a supportive community, if my university had done this, I would have turned and run the other way. The reason I enjoyed my CS department so much was because nobody talked to me like I was any different, or made an issue of my genitalia, I was just another computer science student.

Admittedly, a lot of my dissatisfaction with this book stems from my views on gender: I see men and women as fundamentally the same, but socialized to be different. Ultimately, they're all people. It seems like the researchers found that certain types of people (those who wanted to nurture and pursue a variety of interests as opposed to single-mindedly obsessing over one) were not succeeding in computer science, and those types happened to be overwhelmingly female. They proceed to refer to these types of people and "women" interchangeably, which I feel is inaccurate. They made an effort to get more people with vaginas in the door - regardless of whether or not they fit the type of person they just described (people who fit that description who happened to be male were just out of luck, I guess). I realize they're speaking in generalities, and not all people will fit even good generalities, but I think that they were inaccurate in this regard.

I think that, ultimately, recruiting women explicitly only serves to keep gender an issue and build the suspicion that female students were only admitted because of their sex. Instead of creating a supportive community of females for females, why not work on involving everybody in that supportive community? Instead of having dinners and get-togethers for women, why not have similar get-togethers to discuss sex and gender and how it plays out in the department? Everybody's got a sex, and in addition to supporting one half of the traditional gender binary, it could also create support for and awareness about the non-traditionally gendered
