 This book is yet another attempt to deligitimize any opposition to the the Republican and big business agenda by demogogic attacks on "liberals" as bumblingly inept fools and arbitrary bureacratic despots, if not traitors, who "blame America."  Thus the title "Useful Idiots", borrowed from Lenin, implying in the manner of Joe McCarthy that liberals are "dupes of the Communists."  

 This bullying and intellectually dishonest demogoguery is from yet another individual who joins the ranks of an already overpopulated niche of glib right-wing loudmouths who have been beating the drumbeats of a political pogrom in this regard since the 1970s, a mentality whose most tragic result was the brutal fascistic dictatorship in Argentina in which "liberals" and New Leftists, among others, were largely annihilated during the 1970s-80s, a massacre justified by this type of rhetoric.

 Actually, "liberals" were on the leading edge of instituting the Cold War.  It was Kennedy who allowed the Bay of Pigs to go forward and stared down the Soviets during the Cuban Missile Crisis, who went to the Berlin Wall and who previously championed the "missile gap" against Nixon in the 1960 election; it was the liberal Truman who instituted the "Truman Doctrine", carried out the Berlin Airlift and launched the Korean War. Most signigicantly, it was the liberal Johnson, along with the liberal intellectual elite of the "Best and the Brightest" who brought us Vietnam.  

 Moreover, while it is fair to talk about the alleged depredations of Castro and communism, intellectual honesty would also require that the agenda of big business in Latin America-the access to cheap resources and labor (the agenda of what is now called "globalism" or ironically "neo-liberalism")-which has resulted in numerous vicious military dictatorships being imposed on the people there, from Batitsta to Pinochet, be also elucidated so the American people can decide what is a just policy.  That US goverment policy was motivated by the interests of Wall Street can be seen in most obvious fashion in the fact that John Foster Dulles, a partisan of the Cold War under Eisenhower who in 1954 approved the CIA sponsored overthrow of the Guatemalan democratically elected government, was previously the general counsel of the United Fruit Company whose plantations Arbenz threatened to nationalize.  Liberals, including Robert Kennedy-then working for Senator Joe McCarthy, did nothing to oppose this but rather gave the more sanctimonious and sophisticated justifications for it.  Thus don't tag the radical left with the "liberal" monicker of which it has nothing but contempt (in that regard check out the late radical leftist folk singer Phil Ochs' song, "Love Me, I'm a Liberal") and don't impute those views to the Democratic Party and the mainstream of people who oppose President Bush.  Joe McCarthy tried that in the 50s and, fortunately for American democracy, failed. 

It also bears pointing out that this is yet another example of fighting the last war.  The Cold War ended in 1991 and the global context we face now is radically different.  Now America has actually been placed under attack-by radical Islamist elements that were initially empowered and unleashed in Afghanistan by the CIA in the 1980s resulting in the unintended consequences we face now.  Then of course there's our increasingnly protracted intervention in Iraq.  This leaves aside the crisis in the Balkans in which the Clinton administration to its great credit intervened to stop an ongoing genocide against European Muslims in Bosnia and Kosovo, something the right either was indifferent to-as they are to Darfur today-or viewed as a joke.  All this shows, as Jon Stewart so eloquently pointed out last year, that media political hacks-mostly right-wing-are fast with facile put-downs, but slow on real commitment to human rights (which they derided under Carter) and lack any real serious interest in the actual problems facing the world, a foundation of basic competence, but rather seek to cover for their own venal ends by pandering to the more ignorant and bigoted sections of the populace.  They merit no confidence from thoughtful citizens
