This book is so bad it's hard to know where to begin. She compares women to hobbits - seemingly unnoticed and unimportant - but vital to God's mission. What is that? "God's call to battle for women is the call to serve the kingdom by serving their husbands, their families, and their homes." (p. 82) Her message seems to be women serve by having babies & nurturing - but stay out of important public decision making because that's the man's job. 

Her "spin" on biblical women is farcical. It seems every Old Testament women felt her every pregnancy was a "lottery ticket" - would she produce the promised seed? the Messiah? Somehow, the Jews never could quite grasp that their Bible was really all about Jesus starting with the opening chapter of Genesis.

One glaring example of her biblical exegesis is the story of Abigail and David. David wants to extort her husband & when he refuses, David is on the verge of killing him. Supposedly Abigail's ONLY concern is that David not defile himself by such an act (she apparently is less concerned about her husband's welfare than David's). She appeases David so he will not do this impure thing. Does this make sense? Didn't Jesus say, in effect, that to think a bad thing is the same as doing it? So David's intent to kill this man should already count against him. And why worry about David's purity - this is a man who kills 100 other men for their foreskins as a present to his future father-in-law. This is a man who kills a husband after fathering a child with his wife. Wasn't Abigail's worry about David defiling himself rather silly. Oh, yes - and she later becomes one of his wives!

Her prose is astounding: "God is pursuing a bride, seeking and saving us in order to make us His treasured wife. He has a home ready for us. The mortgage is paid for eternity. He will carry us over the threshold and delight in us forever." If you find that uplifting, then by all means buy the book. There is much more of the same sprinkled liberally in every chapter.

I will end by quoting Naomi Goldberg. This is a quote that Jones uses on page 17 and she approves of it. If you do also, then this is your good read.

"Yet very few of the women and men now working for sexual equality within Christianity and Judaism realize the extent of their heresy.
