I read this book prior to watching the movie.  The movie is now one of my favorites of all time.  This book however is one of the worst books I have read and I read a LOT.

I will say up front that at least part of my difficulty with this book is the slang.  What I mean is the author and character of the book are Irish, so perhaps I just couldn't pick up the language, and that may be my own shortcoming.

That being said, the main problem with this book is that it is all over the place.  The narrator will suddenly write three or four pages about some random people that we don't know, have never read about, and do not ever read about again.  The problem with that is that it makes you wonder what the point of those interactions and antecdotes are exactly.  That's just one example of the "messy" part I am referring to.  I found myself re-reading almost every other page wondering what I missed, trying to figure out where this and that came from.  I am not even sure why, but I never felt much for Patrick.  Although what he describes is awful and sad, I never really felt like I could identify with him and I never felt bonded with him like I would expect to.   

Another problem in my opinion is that I don't feel that the character ever evolves or changes.  Patrick does go through a lot and experiences a lot of things, most of them hateful and disgusting (not on his part though) and he spends his time being upset over his mother who abandoned him yet I don't feel that there is ever any resolution or progression at all.  I got to the end of the book wondering what the point was, wondering if there was any point at all.  This book left me feeling pretty s****y about humanity, not that I need much to make me feel that way.  

The ONLY thing that stopped me from giving Breakfast one star is the simple fact that an incredibly heartfelt and beautiful, even inspiring movie was born from this muddled piece of work.  The movie is "never" better than the book.  Well this is one of about three cases I know of where that is absolutely not true.  I never thought I'd say this about ANY movie adaptation of a book....SAVE YOURSELF THE TIME AND WATCH THE MOVIE INSTEAD. 
