GWTW certainly was one-sided in its portrayal of the Old South, and I can see how that could be a deal killer for a lot of readers.  Although I consider GWTW to be one of the greatest pieces of American literature ever written, I was VERY excited by the idea of TWDG.  The idea of building a "back story" around the black characters in Mitchell's novel is BRILLIANT!  So much could be done with this idea to address issues of race and slavery, as well as to broadside a popular piece of American literature through counterpoint.

Unfortunately, this great idea is wasted because Randall is utterly lacking in talent.  The thing that immediately bothered me about TWDG is the extraordinarily poor use of dialect.  One sentence has the main character narrating in perfect grammar with strong vocabulary and then in the next sentence she's all "he do dat" and "me go sleep."  Randall should have picked one voice for her main character and stuck with it.  This alone represents terrible hack writing, but I must go on and say something about the (snicker) "plot."

The plot, which should be subversive and controversial, fails to rise above the trashy romance novel level, and the (I think they're supposed to be shocking) sex scenes wouldn't shock anyone except my Amish Aunt Minnie.  I actually laughed out loud several times as I read them because I pictured Clark Gable/Rhett Butler saying some of this ridiculous dialogue.  

The plot here is so flaccid that Randall inadvertently undermines her own book.  The white characters remain more interesting than any of the black characters.  This despite the fact Randall gives them tons of dirty linen to air in an obvious (and pathetic) attempt to make them interesting.  Her black characters are non-entities, which I believe was her beef with Mitchell in the first place....right?! 

As a result, by writing TWDG, Randall is only spray painting a nasty word on the castle walls of GWTW when what she needed to do was bulldoze the original, dance gleefully on its grave, and create something very powerful in its place.  But that would take a skilled writer, and Randall just doesn't have the goods.

"Taking on" GWTW is a great idea, especially to stir up discussion around issues of racism and slavery in our country and our history.  However, to do an idea like that justice requires a talented author (i.e., not Alice Randall).  Maybe Toni Morrison should take this on?  I'd read that
