As a fan of N. Farmer after reading The House of The Scorpions, I had grasped this book with enthusiasm.  Sadly, I now question my admiration towards the author.  This book, set in early saxon era, gives overly descriptive and frank and straight forward counts of the Norse people's heinous actions, without consideration of the ages of her readers:  page 105 - "The sad eyed woman collapsed.  She hadn't been strong to begin with.  Olaf dragged her up, and with a swift movement that made Jack cry out, he cut her throat and threw her over the side."  And, that's just a tip of the iceberg.  Try a search on "cut" within this book and you will find dozens of more of these decadent actions that I truly do not believe that a young person should be reading.  

	In regards the characters, I have to agree with other one-star givers, that there are no character buildings within the story.  I did not see any special ability nor courage in Jack, who was chosen to the bard's apprentice.  His sister, Lucy, is a retard - thinking the Norsemen who captured them are some king's men who came to take her back to be a princess.  Thorgil, who is one of the "shield maiden" is absurdly defiant - how she still survived the odyssey, is outrageous.  And, of course, Olaf - whose suicidal downfall was inevitable in a battle with an invincible opponent called a troll-bear.  

	Only good part I see in this book is how the author tried to weave and bestows the knowledge of Norse mythology upon the readers.  The book is crammed with trolls, Asgard, Jotuns, Freya and etcetera.  It is filled with good knowledge.  Yet, the storytelling is very hectic.  Surroundings and atmospheres are left undescribed.  The novel bounds along with hiatus leaving to wonder as if this book should have been a trilogy where many sections seem detracted to fulfill the publisher's encumbrances rather than the author's artistry to shorten a potentially a greater novel to a mere kiddies' read.

	To fulfill the knowledge of Norse mythology, I would recommend "D'Aulaires' Book of Norse Myths" 
