It's almost always sad and is certainly always instructive to see living myths die. The Woodward of "All the President's Men" was just such a living myth. Like all myths, the Woodward myth does serve a purpose. In this case, the purpose is highlighting our societal belief that the truth is worth fighting for, that uncovering the truth can make a difference, and that a couple of young guys in cheap suits with the right ideas and a little extra chutzpah can even take on the President of the United States...and win. Of course that Woodward never truly existed and the real Woodward has always had to live under the shadow of the myth that bears his name. Honestly, I don't envy...even if he is proverbially crying all of the way to the bank.

What's scary with a living myth, though, is when people confuse the real person and the myth and assume that the carnal hero actually has the powers that the myth suggests. I recall having a conversation with a good friend not long after Woodward published "Bush at War". Although this friend is among the most innately intelligent people I know, is a strong liberal, and was initially opposed to the war in Iraq, she was still caught in the sway of the Woodward myth and reading "Bush at War" had convinced her that the Bush administration was both cautious and thoughtful in its lead up to the war. When I asked her how she could so easily change her mind, her response was that, "This is Bob Woodward...not some right-wing hack." Although I think it's somewhat unfair to refer to Woodward as either right wing or as a hack. I'm afraid that he is much closer to these two appellations than he is to the myth that has been created around him.

The sooner people realize this, the better it will be for all of us. The real Bob Woodward has been veiled for too long by his mythic aura. It's about time that this veil is lifted for all of us to see the real Woodward. I think the Bob Woodwards of the world, real and mythic, are quite instructive. As time passes, I hope the fictional Woodward can continue to inspire young reporters to tilt at windmills...and I hope the real Bob Woodward story helps us realize that both valor and value are fleeting and that you stop being a champion once you've joined the mill
