Does this man ever tire of tooting his own horn? He writes reams of paper on his terrible POW experiences and how courage matters. Yet he refuses to protect the people of his own state (AZ) from the huge onslaught of illegals from Mexico. Illegals are committing crimes and destroying personal property. They are also desecrating the vaunted natural landscapes that liberal environmentalists are always screaming about.(BTW, why are these liberals suddenly mute about this destruction???) McCain's fellow citizens are arming themselves for protection because illegals are increasingly emboldened by our own govt. He hooked up with Chappaquidick Kennedy to author the McCain-Kennedy illegal rewards act which essentially grants amnesty to 20+ million illegals. Bush signed a bill (a televised PR ploy) to build a 700-mile fence along the border - yet this effort remains largely unfunded. Heard anything about it lately? He sent a few thousand National Guardsmen to the borders but they aren't armed and are apparently filling out forms and other ineffective busy work. Does this make sense??? Why did our govt allow illegal immigration to continue unabated for more than twenty years??? They KNEW what was happening yet stood mute. McCain is known for his arrogance and quick temper. This was demonstrated recently as he addressed fellow Arizonians about the border problem. (Paraphrased)'...They are here to pick lettuce...you (Americans) won't pick lettuce and do you know why my friends? I'll pay you $50/hour to pick lettuce! You won't do it because you CAN'T do it!!!...'With "friends" like McCain, who needs enemies??? I called McCain's office requesting info on how I could get the $50/hour lettuce picking job and received no response. How dare this man speak to his constituents in this manner! McCain (Bush, Kennedy, etc.) are good examples of arrogance in govt - they answer to no one and they do exactly what's good for their pocketbooks and/or their reelection efforts. I don't know why Arizonians aren't demanding this cocky politico and his comrades do something to actually protect THEIR rights over those of a bunch of shrill, militant illegals. Not that it would do any good. After all, they MUST have the "Latino" vote
