This book is an excellent affirmation of Christian values that must be read by anyone who didn't realize that "The Da Vinci Code" was a work of fiction. Please reread that sentence; "The Da Vinci Code" is a work of fiction, like "Star Trek" or "Harry Potter". Unfortunately, the same people who fail to appreciate this fact are the same people who actually need to read "Cracking Da Vinci's Code," in order to restore balance to a worldview so easily upset by Dan Brown's clever yarn. 

Unfortunately, this book is poor ammunition for anyone actually hopeing to defend the Christian faith from a popular fascination with the romanticized Cult of the Magdelene presented by Dan Brown. Doctors Garlow and Jones, both highly educated evangelists, have crafted a book that is more or less comfort food for their audience, not any scholarly attempt to address the factual underpinnings of Brown's novel. Somewhat pointedly, Garlow and Jones choose some of the weaker elements of Brown's novel to base their case on.  For instance, by way of dealing with non-Canon gospels (the Gnostic gospels, and the somewhat-less-offensive Apocryphal texts), Garlow and Jones give a selective history of the Council of Nicea which posits that they merely reaffirmed a version of the New Testament already in circulation. This is somewhat true, but ignores how the wording of the gospels were decided to specifically reaffirm the Nicean view of Christianity at the expense of other popular Churches of the time (including churches established by the very disciples of Jesus). They cast aspersions on non-Canon texts without actually addressing why they are or aren't considered reliable. Likewise, when it comes to a discussion of Paganism and its influence on Christian theology, the authors steadfastly refuse to acknowledge even the possiblity (much less the accepted fact) that rituals central to Christianity - such as baptism, the eucharist, and  chrism (annointing with oil or ashe) - were all employed by pagan cults for thousands of years prior to Christianity. Instead, Garlow and Jones rely on the emotional impact of the epithet "pagan" on their reader to cast aspersions and reinforcce doubt. 

Most disappointing about this book is that the authors attack fiction with fiction. Where there exist stronger points in the scholarship that underpin Brown's fiction (and I can't emphasize enough that "The Da Vinci Code" is JUST an entertaining story), Garlow and Jones turn instead to a fictional couples experience attending a discussion group of Brown's book and it's central thesis, which naturally involve secularist ridicule of faithful Christians engaged in acts of ministry. 

There are even a few instances where the authors manufacture assertions by inferral that were never made by Brown or any of his characters. Half way through this book, I got the distinct impression that neither Garlow or Jones (nor their editor) ever actually read Browns fictional works.

This is one of those rare books where I was relieved to finally have finished it. There is no vice in the spirited defense of ones faith through the presentation of facts in support of rational argument. Unfortunately, this book is very light on facts, and frequently resorts to emotional arguments. The Gospels tell us that Jesus himself debated with authority found in a thorough knowledge of the law, and was skilled in avoiding rhetorical traps. Garlow and Jones do the opposite: they count on the unfamiliarity and uncertainty of the general population, and frequently employ rhetorical traps. Anyone seeking to be Christ-like, and defend their faith, would do well to not rely on this book.
