I followed the trial and read a few books about it. When I heard some of the jurors were writing a book I looked forward to reading it. But it was a big disappointment for me. 
If you wonder the emotional and financial (which they seem to have solved by writing this book) predicaments of the jurors during and after the trial and how three jurors were dismissed from the panel this is the book for you. But if you just wonder (like I did) how they evaluated the evidences, you will find nothing about it.  The book is all about the jurors and how they suffered because of this trial to the extent of not being able to have proper Christmas holidays since then. 
As for the deliberations; all you could learn is that they talked about Mark Geragos' arrogance and expensive clothes, Scott Peterson's cold and aloof manners during the trial, the phone conversations between Peterson and Frey, and the photos of Laci and Connor's remains (I accept that those photos would affect anybody but it seems that the jurors did not even consider for a second that what they saw in those photos might have been the result of someone else's actions). All these persuaded them that Peterson killed his pregnant wife. There were too many evidences presented at the trial. What about deliberating those one by one? What about discussing Det. Craig Grogan's list of 41 reasons he believed that the bodies showed up in the San Francisco Bay, the defense arguments and if those had a point or not (instead of Geragos' fancy clothes)?
I have been reading true crime books for a long time and I have never heard a motive like "he believed a divorce would be a failure for himself and he killed his pregnant wife for that reason." Besides the guy had failed in his restaurant business before and his fertilizing business was about to fail too. So he was not so much obsessed about not to be a failure.
After finishing the book I thought; 
1. either the jurors really deliberated every aspect of the evidences and the facts that were presented to them by both the prosecution and the defense but they did not bother to include these discussions into their book and preferred talking only about themselves. If that is the case, then I feel myself an idiot for spending $ 22 (including shipping rates) on that book.
2. or they decided their verdict by discussing only the subjects mentioned in the book. If that is the case, then there is a serious injustice here. I am not saying that he is not guilty. I would not know that. All I am saying is that the jury should have deliberated the evidences instead of irrelevent facts. In American criminal justice system there is a "reasonable doubt" concept. And I believe that there was a reasonable doubt in this case but the jurors were adamant not to consider that because they were blinded by the "media trial and conviction" before the actual trial. According to their book they did not deliberate any of the defense arguments. Even this shows how prejudiced they were before they entered that room.
If you want to read about this trial buy Catherine Crier's A Deadly Game (pro-guilty) and Matt Dalton's Presumed Guilty (pro-not guilty). By reading these you will be able to have an opinion of your own. 

