If you liked Michael Eric Dyson's other works then you will love this.  It is essentially his standard "blame Amerika" rant with the words New Orleans, and Hurricane Katrina thrown in to render the work germane.  The interesting thing about this book is how quickly it was published after Katrina.  Given the length of time required to get a manuscript onto bookshelves, I calculated that he must have written this in the two weeks following the storm. Given that some of the "facts" he cites about Katrina can be shown empirically to be false, perhaps he should have waited just a little longer before jumping into the fray.  

Another  blow to Dyson's neo-Marxist take on Katrina is the  Knight Ridder news story released  in December (2006) that showed the pattern of death and to a certain extent destruction did NOT occure on racial/class lines as Dyson would have us believe also casts doubt on his narrative (for example, as a percentage of population, there was a stronger correlation between age and death than race and death. If those found dead in nursing homes were factored out, as a percentage of population, more white people than black died. Can we then surmise that George Bush hates old white people? The main stream media, with few exceptions, did not pick up on this story because like Dyson, they had already decided the Katrina narrative and they are not about to let the facts ruin a juicy story.)  Those of you who know Dyson's work of course will know that he was probably chomping at the bit from day one to throw his opinion into the mix.  

Anyone who followed the coverage of Katrina probably heard various religious figures blaming the evil nature of New Orleans for incurring god's wrath.  Offensive as these views may be, I was surprised that Dyson - a writer who is considered to be a first rate accademic by many - would wast a whole chapter refuting such arguments.  In fact, by even arguing against these positions he is giving them more credence than they deserve.  If any book about Katrina is to be taken seriously, it probably should not contain a whole chapter on the pros and cons of various theological interpretations of the disaster.  True, the author is an ordained minister but perhaps he should leave his views on divine retribution in the pulpit where they belong (it is also ironic that given Dysons neo-Marxist critical approach to race, etc. that he would even counternance the notion of god. let alone engage in the arguments he does here.)

So, if you are a fan of Dyson's, buy this book - you will be neither disappointed nor challenged (because you already know what he is going to say.) If you are interested in the state of contemporary leftist "academic" thought then this is a good read because it is far more accessible than the works of many of Dyson's peers yet encapsulates the narrow race/class/power/gender optic through which they view capitalism in general and of course this most wicked of nations, Amerika.
