I am 40 years old and have been a sci-fi fan for at least 24 years. I read an average of 2-3 books per week (not all sci-fi). I held off reading Sirens because I like to read humorous sci-fi on vacations (just my quirk). I can honestly say I was extremely dissappointed in this story, and I think most real sci-fi fans will be as well. I think people are afraid to criticize this book anymore because it is so widely praised, but if they were honest, it's a mixed bag at best.

Some spoilers ahead...be warned.

Vonnegut makes a lot of promises early on in this novel that he never fulfills. The experience becomes much ado about nothing. I understand some people are absolutely engaged by Vonnegut's exploration of the human condition and the pathos involved, but it all came off trite to me. There are other novels by Herbert and Heinlein that do it much better. Deserting main charachters on park benches to die isn't really exploring the human condition as much as admitting you led the reader down a path with no destination.  

His fade-in, fade-out antoginist really is lacking in depth. He's a stereotypical WASP we are supposed to like because he is destroying all those dogmatic religions by creating a new...(suprise) a new dogmatic religion. It's like Vonnegut thinks he's the only one to ever conclude that religion might be holding back humanity, but then has no idea how to fix it and in the end sticks to convention. This plot point ends up a huge wash to me.

Of course the most annoying plot point right on top of the cake is the promise of this magical destination Titan and the title's Sirens. We are shown their picture, which is supposed to be beauty beyond compare, but never a description. In the end they are just statues on a barren landscape, yet another cop-out. 

In the end we discover that the point of humanity's entire maddening history has been to provide a part for a broken alien spaceship. Of course, one would expect that part to be complicated enough that it required such manipulation and effort. One might even suspect that it was too hard for a single alien to make. Not here. It's hard to suspend disbelief about a piece of ribbon steel 1 inch wide and 6 inches long with a square hole punched in it. It apparently required 20,000 years of human history to produce it, instead of the alien using a coke can or some analog on his elaborate ship.

There are some creative bits to this story. The trip to Mercury definitely was well done. Unfortunately the humor and creativity feel like unrelated bits strung together along one of the worst plot lines ever created. I really wanted to like this book. I really wanted to recommend it. I can't. If you like books with solid plots, some sci-fi, some religion, some philosophy about the human condition, and interesting charachters, go read Stranger in a Strange Land again. 
