John Dunning's "Booked to Die" was a New York Times best seller, and also won the prestigious Nero Wolfe Award.  It is one in his series of Denver police procedurals featuring homicide detective Cliff Janeway.  Dunning, who lives in Denver, Colorado,owned the Old Algonquin Bookstore in Denver for many years, and "Booked to Die," (duh!) is set in the world of rare and collectible books.

I really found it an interesting world to enter, and learned quite a bit about it before the book was done.  But do I believe the designated villain, a book dealer, really would have killed?  Not on your life.  And do I believe anyone would kill over some valuable books?  Not on your life.  Of course, I realize that in the current world, it must require great imagination to write a mystery that doesn't feature as villain a ruthless drug dealer with friends in high places; still, one of the first requirements of a mystery, for me at least, is at least temporary believability.

Dunning writes well, he does well by Denver, and, as previously noted, the book trade. He's a thorough-going professional, and the story keeps trucking along, rented U-Haul and all.  As, "I drove south, into the coming snowstorm.  I thought about the U-Haul truck and the mileage that Bobby Westfall had racked up.  I thought about Greenwald and the screwed-up Ballards and the turtle-faced man.  Snow began to crust around the edges of my windshield.  The road was getting slick."

Still, the book has a paint by numbers feel to me, or rather it has no feeling, to me.  Supporting characters are cut from the finest cardboard. I'd say the book didn't touch my emotions, but that wouldn't be entirely true.  It left me with a bad feeling.  Consider: the first love interest deserts Janeway without a word when he leaves the police force.  A woman who's met up with the book's actual designated bad guy in an unpleasant way is a total senseless irrational coward, keeping herself and everybody else in continuous jeopardy.  Suspicion is cast on the book's later love interest, a ploy that's been used untold times by writers better than Dunning.  And a 19-year old female character, introduced only to be killed shortly, is made a Glaswegian Scot, no less, and stuck with the given name of Elspeth Pride, known as"Pinky" by her friends. For heaven's sake, if you're giving a character only 30 pages to live, at least give her a humane name.

My yiddische grandmother, whom I loved, used to say of someone she disliked," he should live and be well."  After that came an unpoken sentence: "But not in my vicinity."  Dunning should write and be well, but not in my vicinity.  

