My two year old German Shepherd/Rottweiler mixed dog had his first seizure last December.  After another seizure episode this week, he has now been diagnosed as an "idiomatic" epileptic and will require seizure therapy for the rest of his life.  As an owner of a now "special needs" dog, I have sought out to educate myself regarding his condition.  I came across this book in my search but have found it to be a disappointment.  The author does not solely focus on canine seizures and spends too much time discussing alternative therapies, alternative diets, other medical conditions, etc.  The theme of the book focused more on "bucking" everything my vet has told me (I have every confidence in my vet and the staff at MedVets in Ohio) in favor of alternative therapies, diet, etc.  I was looking for practical information regarding treatment, epileptic drugs, drug reactions, what to expect, etc. but this information was covered (briefly) in a few chapters (Chapter 4, 6, 7, & 10 for a total of 34 pgs).  The remaining 8 chapters (and 120 pgs) were of little benefit as they were devoted to ""Dealing with Loss", "The Doctor-Client Relationship," Normal Canine Structure & Function," Dietary Therapy," "Alternative Therapies," "Additional Health Concerns," etc.  I was slightly hesitant to purchase this book based on the fact that (per the "About the Author" section) Ms. Levin is a RN by education; her medical background is as a registered nurse.  Although she states that she managed an ophthalmic veterinary clinic, but I don't see how running a vet clinic (a business) qualifies her to author a book regarding canine epilepsy.  After purchasing this book, I can see this is the case.  The majority of the book did not provide me any useful information and I will be continuing my research on canine epilepsy elsewhere.  If you are looking for canine epilepsy resources, I would only recommend a cursory review of this book via your local library.  In my opinion, it was not worth the purchase price.  
