I loved "Wishcraft" when it first came out decades ago.  Then, it was relevant to my life.  Now in my fifties, retired from a physically-active job for medical reasons, and planning my future, I bought this book.  The next day, I returned it.

Barbara seems to think that forty is old.  Odd, considering she's older than I am.  Just please be aware that if you're over forty, this book is not going to be terribly relevant to your life.  It's probably terrific for people under forty, but if you're past early mid-life, forget it.

Another thing that made me question the validity of Barbara's more recent work was her insistence that once you've nabbed a partner, or settled into a career, or otherwise gotten your life together, you should put away your mirror and let yourself go.  Yes, I'm serious.  I'm paraphrasing, but that's the advice.  And it's psychologically unsound.

My advanced drama class used to put on shows for retirement homes and long-term care centers.  One thing I learned was that when a person (of any age) stopped caring for their appearance, it was a sign of depression and, in many cases, giving in and giving up.  I also know, from a personal experience with clinical depression, that the quickest way to lift your spirits -- even a little -- is to dye your hair or buy a great new outfit.  This applies to men as well as to women.  Yet Barbara Sher encourages us to just forget about our physical appearance.  I wonder how much longer she'll be writing (or doing anything else).

Angela Lansbury, on her wonderful videotape of several years ago, said that when she got older and was given more matronly acting jobs, she gained more than a few pounds.  And she decided it was all right.  She was older.  She didn't have to prance around in a swimsuit.  But Ms. Lansbury couldn't stand it, and lost that weight.  She respected herself too much to just let it all hang out.  From what I've learned, that's healthy.  What Barbara Sher advocates is not.

Again, this book is probably helpful to younger people.  But the "any age" she refers to in the title doesn't go much past forty
