It's not easy to criticize this book, because it is beautifully written and captures something tragic and poignant and important:  the emotional trials and conflicts of a spunky twelve year old girl who is coming of age in a world that doesn't understand her.  But McCullers' darker undercurrents taint the book.

Threaded throughout are elements of sexual perversity, terrible sexual boundaries with children, and hints at pedophilia, leading me to question strongly what in the world happened to Carson McCullers when she was a little girl.  Furthermore, the perversity often pops up in a disjointed way that adds nothing to the book's power, and thus reads largely as gratuitous.

A few examples from the book - a book which I did not finish because I didn't trust where its author was taking me:

1) The main character, a pubescent twelve year old girl who is nearly five-foot six, has spent her whole life up till now sleeping in the bed with her widowed and single father, until he looks at her one day and realizes she's "a great big long-legged twelve year old" - McCullers leaves exactly what he means to our imagination - and kicks her out of bed.

2) The girl's best friend is a six year old boy, whom she bullies and torments, and then basically forces to spend the night with her in her bed.  McCullers makes a point of showing how they change their clothes for bed in the same room - "with their backs turned to each other" - and then get in bed together.  Once the little boy is asleep the girl, who is two months away from turning thirteen, rubs his bare stomach with her hand, licks him behind his ear, and then nuzzles up to him.  (Also, imagine if their genders were reversed!)

3) The father takes a married couple as boarders in the house, but the girl - then age nine - walks in on them doing something overtly sexual with the door left purposefully open.  McCullers leaves it to the readers' imagination what her little protagonist viewed.

4) McCullers talks about the girl character, age twelve, having had sex with a neighborhood boy.  Again, she gets vague on details, but why is she sharing even this much?  If you were to remove the literary style and add a scant few more details, you would have child pornography.

5) Eventually the girl changes her name, wears an adult dress that makes her look much older - and goes out on the town and meets a visiting adult soldier.  He comes onto her sexually - though stops only because others come into the bar where he is giving her alcohol.  One is only left to wonder where the book will go from here.

Because this book was written in the 1940s the author can get away with it - and perhaps also because she's a female author - but really, it's disturbing and perverse
