I have more than 15 years of project management experience. I've read this and quite a few other PMP books from cover to cover. Most of the reviews on this page sound like a propaganda to me. This book gives you the impression that it's a big book and must be covering lots of material. But this, in my opinion, is not true. It's big due to the large font and because most of the space on each page is empty.  

Furthermore, the book is mostly a re-hash of the PMBOK Guide but only with less information, and without any apparent consideration to and description of the exam objectives or specifications. (I found that this is the problem with most of the PMP books except the one by Sanghera). Most of the topics in this book are not covered to adequate depth. For example, Pareto chart is presented without much explanation: just one example of an approach that permeates throughout the whole book. Using simple language is good  property of this book, but at places the concepts are oversimplified so that the accuracy can be questioned.

Most of the review and exam questions are too simplistic. They may be ok for the CAPM exam but NOT for the PMP exam.

To me, it's does not seem like a professionally prepared book. For example, binding is weak, most of the tables and figures are not numbered, and index is very poorly prepared and is not very useful.

Just considering the shallow coverage of the topics, I would not count on this book solely for the exam. We are lucky that there are quite a few PMP books out there to choose from. Here is my recommendation of PMP books in descending order:

1. PMP Exam Prep by Rita Mulcahy. Quite a bit of exercises and explanations. At least refers to PMBOK Guide when does not explain something.

2. PMP In Depth by Paul Sanghera. Pretty much self contained and adequately covers almost all the exam topics. In the beginning of each chapter, describes the PMP exam objectives covered in the chapter.

3. PMP Study Guide by Joseph Phillips. Quite a few topics are covered in much detail. However, at places not very compatible with PMBOK Guide.

4. The PMP Exam by Andy Crowe (this book). A good additional resource. But not comprehensive enough. 

 
 

