This book was a disappointment despite very low expectations. Darwin Porter is not a writer, so this is not really a book; it's a deluge of catty gossip, incidents presented in no particular order and with little consideration for their relative value or who they pretend to describe. As another reveiwer said, one gets a far more meaningful sense of who Brando was by watching his flims, even the bad ones, because he was a fabulous and fascinating actor and always gave himself away in his performances. One doesn't need to read page after page of repititious detail about his supposed homosexual and straight affairs presented as actual accounts, with foolish dialogs that all sound the same. For example: would Brando ALWAYS refer to his prick as "my noble tool"? 
It does not bother me particularly to think of Brando as a man who gave into his own cravings. And there are no real secrets about him if one watchs his films attentively. He was a generous actor. But the eye and heart of the beholder are what count in writing a biography- and this biographer's are on view here and are far less noble tools than those of his subject. And it does bother me that a publisher would accept a manuscript like this.
The author grew up in acting circles, and knew some of the people he "quotes," so these could be actual accounts, though it is extremely doubtful. But he had the responsibility to use discretion and intelligence when presenting the material for publication. He failed in this responsibilty and this became particularly painful and obvious when he threw into the book for no reason that I can discern a morgue shot of Marilyn Monroe, and various other painful images. Yes, we are all destined for this end, even the very loved, very kind, very noble, very wise and very discrete among us-  does anyone's privacy need to be violated in distress or death?
No, it is not a book. But I thought I wanted information about Marlon Brando that I could not get on the internet, and did not find in his own autobiography (which I liked very much) or another cheap star bio I read, or from seeing hin in about fifteen films, so I bought it. Brando was the first to say that we are foolish to waste our time with actors, that actors are just people, no different than anyone else. If it was proof of mortality, and of that equality under the sun of which he spoke, I got it. I knew before I opened it that Brando, the man who lived and breathed behind the image on screen, is dead, and there is no more of him to be had, no matter where one looks. 
The one thing which was put into clear focus was the entire Hollywood scene, and the book really demonstrated why so many people in its orbit crack up. Since they are all just people, how can any of them survive this bitter, jealous, senseless, rivalry- filled world? It sounds like an upper region of hell.
Better to inspect one's own fascination for clues as to its origin than read books like this, but who knows, maybe it helps to go all the way with it. That's why I give this book the one star- it did provide me a glimpse of the empty ground at the bottom of the pit.
The book really decays when it gets to the end of Brando's life- it just ceases even pretending to be a real biography somewhere in the sixties, though it's hard to tell from the jumbled way everything is dumped onto the page. The last years are presented in a few pages, divided into boxes with a photo for each, and  that is how the era covering the making of such films as Last Tango in Paris, the Godfather, Miissouri Breaks is covered. There is no more information on Brando's solitude or real quality as a human being after he failed the great American public and ceased to entertain its regard- save a dim photo of the sad fat star in his underwear at a window, which is saved for the end like a treasure. At that point in the book there is a perfunctory stab at dealing with Brando's children's lives: this is not good to read because it is terribly painful. It is not put in perspective, since the author has only got his own perspective to put to it, which is that of a tattler.  That offers little solace when reading about the most terrible things which could happen to a person-to see his own children suffer and know that the blame is partly his own, and all of this in the relentless spotlight of fame.
I am reading a good biography by Hayden Herrara of the painter Arshile Gorky. I recommend that one, even if you are not interested in painting. It might be good to have something on hand to cleanse your palate, if you are thinking of reading Brando Unzipped, for afterwards. You'll need it, and a lot of fresh air, maybe a shower and some good conversatin with a real person. Why would someone write about a person they neither respect, understand or love? Why would someone buy a book knowing it will be bad? These are questions to ponder as you visit Amazon
