For decades feminist authors such as Miss Daly have used their dubious credentials in academia to promulgate the fantasy of a golden age before the onset of "patriarchy," It's the same 60s nonsense-strip away the fancy prose and you're left with the following executive summary: Women once ruled the earth with flowy robes and Gaia conjuring magic wands, and all the world worshipped the Goddess. Any woman who has the courage to study the historical,archeological and paleological evidence by academics with ACTUAL ACCREDITED Ph.D.s will soon understand that this gynocentric vision is a myth. 
The effect of this genre of novel is not to increase grace, love and mercy, but to further splinter humanity into yet more little tribes, all petulantly vying for victim-status and privilege. 
When we sublimate and externalize our spiritual pain and longing for God to a hatred of other groups (in this case, men) how can we find peace, happiness and  love in our journey through life? 

Read books that open your heart. The best antidote to Miss Daly's agenda-of-rage is Cynthia Eller's  "The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory : Why An Invented Past Will Not Give Women a Future." Cynthia Eller easily exposes the Gaia/Sophia/Lilith movement as a scam, and helps the reader differentiate between the two major concepts of Truth: an external, objective and verifiable reality, vs. subjective concept groupings used to stabilize a fragmented secular consciousness.
Another valuable read is "Interior Castle" or "The Way of Perfection" by St. Teresa of Avila. I challenge any woman to read those 2 books and conclude that the author was "marginalized" and repressed by the "patriarchy." More likely, they would understand that a loving apprehension of woman's beauty, power and regnancy existed centuries before the word "feminism" was ever breathed on a western campus. The great irony is that this vision of women, infinitely larger, more beautiful and complex than anything modern feminism has ever proposed, is the very reality which Miss Daly desperately wishes to extinguish in her disciples.
In 50 years, the present farrago of theoreticians- Andrea Dworkin, Germaine Greer, Naomi Wolf, Susan Faludi ad infinitum will all be dead and forgotten, their books mouldering in bargain bins and used book stores. Don't follow their fate, sisters... only love is stronger than death, and you will find love in the men and women of the past centuries who knew God intimately
