
		Richard Pipes's Property and Freedom, offered by him as the work of a "dilettante", is professor emeritus of Russian and Soviet history at Harvard. He is the author of at least twelve other books, including A Concise History of the Russian Revolution (1995) and The Unknown Lenin (1996). His books are written in an agreeable prose, a passport across any boundary, but one. In conscience, Property and Freedom cannot be recommended except, perhaps, to someone who is dying of incurable boredom and needs a dose of it to go over the side, for rare is the person who can read this book without slumping over it, and wise is the person who does not read it in front of an open fire. As the great 19th century historian Jacob Burckhardt wrote, it is good for a specialist to be a dilettante in other fields, but he should be one "privately" (Burckhardt, Weltgeschichtliche Betrachtungen (Munich, 1978), 16). Pipes instead chose to write a book.
		Pipes wrote Poverty and Freedom to prove that liberty and the right to property are "connected", an idea that emerged in the seventeenth century and that no one contests. He claims, however, that though the idea is old, the historical evidence for this uncontested idea has not been gathered, and hence his book. It is doubtful that, after reading it, the reader will learn what he did not know at the beginning, and that is that rights have not "evolved" in a Darwinian garden, they are not sociobiological specimens, and they are not the result of theological epiphanies. They are powers that have been granted or seized because those who would deny them would suffer. All else - tracts, scrolls, philosophies, testaments, beliefs religious or pagan, all of the scenery and scripts that we call history, are as nothing compared with the central fact of power and its location. Magna Carta, for example, benefitted English barons, not Englishmen at large, and freedom of speech originated not in the mouth of an English divine or philosopher but in the grant of the English crown driven by the need of money to grant them to the House of Commons.
			For the history of the idea of property, Pipes recounts the thinking of Western philosophers, theologians, and political theorists. We are treated to the differing views of Plato and Aristotle, the influence of Stoicism on Christianity, the immense contribution of Roman jurists, the radical opinions of St Thomas Aquinas, the inspiriting of capitalism by Calvin, the derisable ideas of the "noble savage" and "Utopia", and on and on through the Law of Nature, Grotius, Hobbes, Harrington, Locke, Rousseau, and the calling in, of all people, Wordsworth and Coleridge, all of this and one has reached only page 49, with last-page 328 a rumored oasis in the distance, reachable after one has run barefoot over 907 footnotes in which one's closing eyes may find six languages to feast upon. If this book has one constant flaw, it is its daunting incantation of facts and opinions that fly by like freight trains, all to prove that the right to property is essential to liberty. The flaw may be forgivable on the ground that Pipes, a Polish Jew who fled Poland in 1940 at the age of ten, has for decades lived intellectually with the murderous sweep of Marxist Communism, fixed at 20,000,000 under Stalin, and 120,000,000 throughout the earth (See, Stephane Courtois et al., Le livre noir du communisme (Paris: Laffont, 1997)). 
		For property as an institution, Pipes examines history, psychology, anthropology, and sociobiology, to prove to us, a people consecrated to materialism, that acquisitiveness is universal among humans as well as animals. He covers
possessiveness in animals, including insects, from protozoa to primates, careful to include dragonflies and the beloved three-spined stickleback. At one point he writes, "Such examples can be multiplied ad infinitum", causing this reviewer to reflexively drop his book. Nor does the acquisitive behavior of children escape Pipes's cascade of what must be thousands of 4 by 6 index cards. Following children, presumably in logical progression, are "possession among primitive peoples" and "societies of hunters and gatherers". The myth of a primitive communism is bound and taken to the scaffold, while private property in antiquity, feudal and mediaeval times, is reported, together with the creation of the state as the guarantor of ownership.
		Pipe points to England as the classic illustration of how private wealth came to restrain public authority. Parliament, the servant of the crown from the 11th to the 15th century, then its partner from the 16th to the early 17th century, became the crown's master in the 1640's. The secret, described by Pipe in  habitual detail, was simple. The crown needed money. The "people" had it or controlled it and demanded freedoms and reforms for it. He traces English history from pre-Norman times through the development of the common law, the crucial history of English taxation, the history of the Tudors, Stuarts, the Commonwealth, and the Revolution of 1688.    
		By way of comparison to England's history, the story of patrimonial Russia, including two and a half centuries of serfdom and seventy years of Communist rule during the latter of which Russians were deprived of liberties to a degree hitherto unknown on earth, is painstakingly set forth in proof of how the absence of the right of property makes tyrannical government possible. Like its predecessors, this chapter sorely needed surgery. It is overloaded with historical material that satisfies only a narrow scholarly interest. Still, there are matters that might engage the reader, particularly Pipes's development of the idea that Russians historically saw sovereign power as the source out of which property issued, and the fact that Russian liberals under the Tsar saw law as the cornerstone of liberty but did not see the connection between law and private property.
		In Pipes's last chapter, he tours our welfare capitalist state, complaining that entitlements create dependence, environmental laws are oppressive, minimum wage laws interfere with freedom of contract, banks are pressured into minority loans, rent control is bad economics, administrative agencies are governmental islands broken away from the continental shelf, taxation of personal income unjustly redistributes wealth, affirmative action in employment is the most egregious form of governmental interference, the government takes property by regulating its use, and so on, providing a communal table at which readers of this review  at this moment are selecting their favorite complaints.
	 Pipes's book invites criticism, but there is in this his last chapter a sudden, disarming admission.  A way, he writes, must be found to preserve property as a fundamental human right while, at the same time, "ensuring fundamental social justice". Had Pipes but written a slim, creative volume on social justice in a capitalist state, he might have given us something worth fifty books on the connection between property and freedom. The way to preserve the right to property and to assure social justice, he argues, is mainly "by attitudes which determine how laws and institutions are employed." This reviewer would put it another way. On the one hand, welfare capitalism offers the best opportunity for realizing freedom and achieving productivity while assuring minimum benefits to those least fortunate. On the other hand, working and middle class majorities may demand too much equality with the rich, thus impairing the prospect of long term economic productivity and giving too little equality to the
underprivileged to satisfy their right to human development. Thus, the justice of welfare capitalism depends on the virtue of moderation by all classes for the sake of the common good. Imperfect as the analogy may be, it is somewhat like one ship towing another at sea. The knack is to keep both ships "in step" by using a tow line of such a length that the ships meet the waves and ride over them together, otherwise one vessel might be in a trough while the other is on a crest, causing the line to slacken and then tauten with sudden violence, doing neither much good. So too in welfare capitalism. The expectations of the classes must be such that one does not destroy the other, otherwise they will all go down.
			  
