I've studied Norse Mythology for years.  So, this being my first introduction to Greek or Roman mythology, I began interested, thinking I would enjoy learning the tales of the ancient Greek and Roman gods.  As this was for a class, I was also hoping to be able to utilise the book in my studies towards the goal of understanding the material enough to write papers on the subject.

I was highly disappointed.  After reading and nearly falling asleep through the first several sections (in small increments; this simply cannot be read straight through), I decided to flip to the back and see what the Norse section had to say.  Upon reading the first several pages of the last segment of the book, my disgust with this book, and Edith Hamilton, was complete.

For twelve years I've read Norse mythology, read the Icelandic Sagas, studied into the history and culture of the Germanic, Norse, and Icelandic.  I try, when I can, to read ever more difficult to find ancient sources on the topic.  Imagine my shock when I read, after her (rather childish) dissertation of Odin, that: "Of the other gods, only five were important."

I can't imagine that anyone who had spent any time learning or studying mythology, or especially writing books on the subject, would make such an ignorant statement of the Norse Gods and Goddesses.  Perhaps she does have good knowledge of Greek and Roman mythology, but I am highly sceptical.  She seems confused that a `Goddess of Love' such as Freya should claim half the battle-slain.  Perhaps this is because she is trying to link Aphrodite to Freya?  Of course, that would be absurd.  Freya is a highly complex Goddess, (and wasn't even on her list of `the five important ones').

I believe it would be in my best interests, as well as the interests of others, to look to other sources for knowledge of Classical Mythology.  And if you, as I, have the misfortune to be assigned this book for a class, I suppose there's nothing to be done but muddle through, and go read a translation of Homer's classics, which I am about to do now.
