I hate to give anything by Yasser Seirawan a bad review.  He is enthusiastic about chess, he seems to be a nice guy (he even exchanged emails with a patzer like me once!) and his enthusiasm and lack of pretension are just what the chess world needs.  On the other hand, I can't really endorse this book, and it's an odd approach for teaching the beginner-intermediate student, which is where it seems aimed (somewhere between Pandolfini and Silman).  It covers just limited lines of some of his favorite openings, often without really making clear why these lines are favored.  We don't get any real insight: these are just Italian and Spanish and other openings with the standard annotations, available on the web for free, not taken very deeply (since this is for beginnerish players) and with no real indication why these are worth trying more than any others.  Then, for the grand finale chapter, he reveals that he really doesn't think memorizing all that stuff is worthwhile anyway, because opening theory is always changing (true) and if you're a club player you're bound to run into people who don't play these openings just so anyway.  So, he says in the last chapter, the solution is to play the Barcza, build a fortress for your king, batten down the hatches, and defend against the enemy attack.  We then get into the KID!

Now, aside from the fact that playing Barcza-type lines and *winning* really isn't the piece of cake he makes it out to be (just try it against a good tactical program like Fritz and watch it make pulp out of your fortress), it severely limits the interesting types of games you can play.  Some people may be satisfied playing the same type of opening system every game, but that would soon lead to boredom for me.  But more importantly, although I am not a grandmaster and have no room to talk, I humbly suggest that his "opening solution" is probably even trickier to master than the standard Smith-Morras and Queen's Gambits that come before it.  That's because while you can control the center with both pieces from the wings and pawns in the center, making a misstep with pieces is potentially more devastating than making a misstep with a pawn.  While both ways can be theoretically equal, playing each type of position is not, and classical (direct) lines are far easier for the elementary student of chess to grasp.  There are also many powerful moves against Barcza that Seirawan doesn't consider--his hypothetical opponent cooperates and plays very non-aggressive moves.  Again, just try playing this opening against Fritz or Chessmaster and see your position get ripped full of holes.  It strikes me as odd that YS would recommend such an opening system for a player who finds variants of Ruy Lopez too much to handle!  So this isn't really a title I could recommend for a beginner-intermediate player.  At the same time, a more advanced player will find he already knows this material.  So I'm not really sure who this book is for.

Aside from that, the page layout is clumsy, with columns that are too wide (it's easy to get lost in the moves) and the ugliest chess diagrams I've ever seen in a chessbook.  Why he didn't just use the standard diagrams we see in newspapers and magazines I don't know, but these look like cutouts by a kindergarten student. I wish I didn't have to be so negative, especially since I like Seirawan so much, but this is not one of my favorite chess books.  Concise Chess Openings by Neil McDonald, also available through Amazon, is a better introductory book for the beginner-intermediate student
