I was attracted to Updike's novel purely by its title and was expecting either an historical novel derived from America's fear and fascination of witchcraft in the era of the Salem witch trials or perhaps a look at contemporary Wiccans or maybe something along the lines of Marion Zimmer Bradley's MISTS OF AVALON.  What I found was none of these but rather a psychological exploration of several very unbelievable characters interacting in aberrant and contrived relationships.  Two aspects of Updike's novel leave me cold-his unrealistic description of witchcraft and his horribly exaggerated similes which torture the English language.

Updike's witches are neurotic, conflicted women who vacillate between lesbian relationships with one another and seducing all the men in town, especially married men.  Their manner of witchcraft is neither historically accurate nor even remotely descriptive of the actual practice of Wicca today, encompassing such ridiculous things as manipulating the nature of a tennis ball to foil their opponents and such purely evil things as killing crabs, pets, and another woman of whom they become jealous.  To use one's power to summon a thunderstorm for the simple reason that other people are on a beach where Alexandra wants to run her dog is purely ludicrous.  Very little of the witchcraft being practiced in the novel is believable, even in a fictional realm.  Oh yes, there's also the practice of having tacks, moths, straw, bird feathers, and suchlike materialize in the mouths of women who annoy our witch friends.  This naturally brings to mind the backfired slug spell that Ron Weasley attempts to cast on Draco Malfoy at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.  Somehow, though, it's much more believable in the realm of Harry Potter than in Updike's "serious" novel.

If Updike's concept of magic is less than believable, his comprehension of effective writing is yet worse.  Several pages of THE WITCHES OF EASTWICK could easily win a Bulwer-Lytton fiction contest, a competition that challenges entrants to compose the opening sentence of the worst of all possible novels.  Updike's descriptive similes are so extravagant as to be unintentionally hilarious.  I thought at first that he was writing tongue-in-cheek in those frequent cases, poking fun at pompous authors, yet I fear that he may himself be one of those pompous writers at whom fun really should be poked.  For example:

"But even as it drifted, her mind, like a passenger in an airplane who amidst the life-imperiling sensations of lifting off looks down to marvel at the enameled precision and glory of the Earth (the houses with their roofs and chimneys so sharp, so finely made, and the lakes truly mirrors as in the Christmas yards our parents had arranged while we were sleeping; it was all true, and even maps are true!), took note of how lovely Sukie was, bad luck or not, with her vivid hair disheveled and even her eyelashes looking a little mussed after her hard day of typing and looking for the right word under the harsh lights, her figure in its milky-green sweater and dark suede skirt so erect and firm, her stomach flat and her breasts perky and high and her bottom firm, and that big broad-lipped mouth on her monkeyish face so mischievous and giving and brave."  I had marked many other examples of such flatulent writing, but if this one doesn't make the point, then nothing will.

Before winding up these observations, I do feel some need to comment on the triteness in Updike's novel.  The idea of having, specifically, three witches is hardly new.  Shakespeare used that figure in MACBETH, and most readers will recognize the use of the number three in Christian mythology, as in the Holy Trinity, God-in-three-persons, etc.  The character of Darryl van Horne is a stereotypical portrayal of a homosexual male taken to extremes.  Using such worn-out and exaggerated symbolism is not the mark of a distinguished author.

In sum, I should venture that Updike's novel may be marginally better than today's typical bodice-ripping paperbacked romance on the supermarket rack, but his characters have a very long way to go to attain the heights of the priestesses who serve the Earth Goddess in Bradley's novels of Avalon
