As a medical student, my metabolism class just covered this diet as an example of an unhealthy "Fad Diet" that makes claims that aren't true. Before we talk about the improper claims, however, I'd like to point out how the authors are scam artists.  They purport to have degrees from the "American College of Health Sciences," a prestigious-sounding university.  Harvey even has a DOCTORATE from there. However, they could never be hired in any hospital or be licensed to practice in any health-care field anywhere in the United States because the "American College of Health Sciences" is an UNACCREDITED CORRESPONDANCE COURSE "college".  Would you be treated by a surgeon or a family physician who learned his trade in one year through the mail?  Of COURSE not! So why would you trust someone with your health who "learned" the same way.  Now on to the diet...

You might ask why so many people seem to lose weight on this diet.  Well, only some people do and those that do, end up that way because all in all, it DOES reduce Caloric intake.  The only way to ACTUALLY lose weight is to reduce Caloric intake beyond daily needs (so that your body burns fat for those extra calories), but you don't have to do that by unhealthily cutting out foods with important nutrients.  You don't need to pay false-scientist scam artists your hard-earned money to be healthy.  Simply exercise 60 minutes a day, read food labels to count calories (the only diet SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN to work and KEEP WEIGHT OFF), and follow the food pyramid.  If you want to try something a little newer, follow the Mediterranian Diet food pyramid (you can Google it) which preaches moderation of ALL food types.

I've also been reading about the speed of the weight loss that people are getting.  To get that kind of weight loss (one pound a day, 10 pounds a week, whatever), is INCREDIBLY unhealthy.  Not only does it put HUGE amounts of stress on your body, but its also only possible by breaking down LEAN mass (muscle mass)as well as fat.  That's definitely not good for you! One Amazon reviewer even said that this occurred when he was on this diet.  There seems to be plenty of people that come on here saying this diet was great for them.  However, there are many more people that have ruined their health this way.  

Finally, in response to the author's claims that food combinations can be unhealthy, it is all made-up lies and trickery.  They use false logic to make their diet and claims sound good when in reality, EVERY study done on this diet has proven their claims false.  There is something to be said about substances in some foods slowing the absorption of sugar and such (fat, for example), but the authors take that idea way too far, even claiming that eggs rot(!) in the body.  Doesn't that sound a little crazy?

You may ask that if all this is true, why doesn't the FCC or FDA or whoever stop them from publishing?  We have First Ammendment rights in this country and as long as the authors are not producing medications that make these claims, there is nothing that they can legally do.  Heck, a person can write a book that says eating glass is a great diet, and the gov't can't and won't stop them.

Please, if you think I'm just being ridiculous or that I don't know what I'm talking about, do a little research on your own.  Ask a doctor or dietician. Or go to these websites by ACTUAL physicians (from accredited Medical Schools) and scientists and see what they say about this diet:

[...
