I'm a MS Certified Instructor, MOUS expert on MS Office 95, 97, 2000, 2003, and have been a PowerPoint trainer for 9 years.

The biggest issue learners have with using PowerPoint as a presentation tool is overcoming the compulsive need to design the slides to read as a speech.  Once they are educated to understand that the slide show is a component of the overall presentation, and should be treated as an enhancement to the speaker's verbal message, they begin to design slides that summarize and convey impact to the major speaking points delivered to the audience.

Bullets serve a legimate purpose - they aid the audience in organizing the information being conveyed into logical, heirarchical format.  This assists with both learning and information retention.  It is true that improper use of bullet points(too much text per bullet, flat format [too many or exclusivly top level bullets], overuse of the bullet slide layout)creates a low-impact, boring presentation.  However, it is equally true that the total eradication of bullet points can have the same result!  Here's why:

The audience perceives the standard slide design within 7-10 slides.  They then begin to anticipate the design of the next slide before it is displayed.  Repetative slide design, whether it is bullets or graphics, causes this to happen faster.  Once the audience can anticipate slide design, their attention moves from the actual content of the presentation to the visuals on the screen, and the presenter has to fight to convey the message.

The best way to design a visual presentation is to VARY THE SLIDE DESIGN.  This will keep the audience interested in the MESSAGE itself, not in the visuals on display.

Remember that the overall intent of any presentation is to convey a message - not to dazzle the audience with visual sparkle.  The presentation is an ENHANCEMENT so that the audience will retain information, and is should not DETRACT from the message.

The best tool I've ever seen for slide design is available in software form.  Google "Design Sense for Presentations".  This is not another "how to" PowerPoint tutorial - it is a Visual Design instructional course that talks about varying design layout according to a THEME - the theme is used for consistency, but the slide content is varied for visual impact and to maintain audience interest.  

It does NOT ban bullet points, but shows how to use them tastefully, with variety and intrigue, so as to capture the interest of the audience.

Good Luck to all those who want to improve! 
