The gist of the argument herein is that since Westerners either A) arn't Muslim or B)arn't native speakers therefore all their reporting is biased.  It is an interesting theory, and given it one must conclude that therefore the West should either A) only hire muslims to report on Muslims or B) not report on the Islamic world.

This is not however the conclusion.  Rather the conclusion is that the West becuase it is 'bad' and 'colonial' is projecting a false image of Islam everywhere it reports about it.

Let us take some examples and see what this is talking about.  The argument is that the west is always biased and always giving us the wrong view of wonderful islam.  
1)  Saudi Arabia-where women cannot drive, cant vote and can be beheaded for adultery.  All this is a fact but apparently to report these facts would be biased, thus by doing so the western media encourages the unfair analysis that muslim countries discriminate against women, even though they do.

2)  Chechnya, Bosnia and Israel- in both cases the media is strongly pro-musim in the West, however this is overlooked in this case.  In a case where the media is pro-Muslim this book simply ignores the fact.

3) Afghanistan and Pakistan:  to islamist states where blasphemy is illegal, where a woman can be beaten by her husband and where a woman who is raped can be killed by her family.  WOnderful, and if the media reports these things then the media is anti-Islamic, becuase it dared to report something that might make westerners who are used to this 'colonial' idea that women are equal, wonder about Muslim societies where they are not.  

The myth is clear and the argument is clear.  90% of Muslim countries have laws that discriminate against women.  For the media to report this would be wrong becuase then westerners might getthe idea 100% of Muslims discriminate against women.  Since this is the basic argument here then probably the conclusion should have been that no culture should ever be allowed to report about another culture since by doing so the one culture might be coompared to the home culture and thus it would be biased reporting.  Total nonsense.

Seth J. Frantzma
