Yeah, I know I'll get shot down for the low rating, but I don't really care. The book gets glowing reviews for the most part, because most people find it touching and beautiful, and people like reading something that makes them feel all warm inside. I appreciate the feeling as much as the next person, but, really, I need more to like a book! 
Really, I looked forward to buying this book, and perhaps my biggest mistake is having high expectations of it. What a lovely title: The Color of Water. And the story behind it, of McBride's mother telling him that God has no color, God is the color of water, got me all riled up and made me salivate at the prospect of sitting down and reading this book.  
Basically, the book is McBride's tribute to his white, Jewish (turned Christian) mother, a woman who manages to pull herself away at a young from her abusive father and start a life of her own. She marries a black man, which is taboo, manages to raise 12 children and put them all through college.
I had two problems with the book after I read it:
1. I did not care for the style of the writing because it seemed kind of loose and lacking in tension, not really very 'colorful', not as lyrical as, say, the title's promise. McBride skips around through time looking for stories about his mother, looking for opportunities to praise her. In a way, I began to feel like the tribute was not so much a tribute to his mother as an act of desperate attention from one boy struggling with having been one of 12 children, trying to get Mommy's attention. There's nothing wrong with that, though it just seems a bit obvious to me, and I felt Mr. McBride should've put more 'story' into the story, instead of just using gooey admiration and half-remembered tales as a slippery foundation to stand on. The writing did drag after a while. It's not that I need firm structure in a memoir - the beauty of memoir is, in a way, its subjectivity - but memoir is still a tale to be told, and it's a storyteller's responsibility to use SOME objectivity while writing, to give a richer tapstry. McBride did not.  
His mother had 12 children, and this was worth looking into. Yes, that she raised them all by herself is admirable, BUT there's a lot more to the story...his mother's story...her religious choices, for instance: Did she turn her back on being Jewish because her father was abusive? What did she feel connected to in Christianity, what made her feel more comfortable with it? It seems like she felt more accepted within the African-American coomunity, which is fine, but then in that case god is not the color of water, because god is actually within a very specific sphere for a very lonely, very young, poor woman. 
Her story interested me and I was extremely frustrated that McBride would not deliver the goods. He speaks about her horrible years with her monster of a father, but also her kind mother (whom, incidentally, she abandons altogether)and leaves so many loose ends. The praise he gives just isnt enough. What about asking her how she felt about having a (second) husband who was only around for the weekends while she was stuck with 12 kids all week? How did he feel about it? No resentment really comes out in the book. No real feeling. 


2. The Color of Water did not impressive to me because I did not find the story particularly unusual. SO much hype over something so common here. There are many, many blacks and whites with mixed backgrounds in the US. Not just black and white, but many other colors here (I, for one). This country, as we know, is a melting pot. McBride talks about his family as though it were the only one like this, which leads me to believe that he was extremely sheltered, and remained that way even after growing up. He also presumes a great deal. He presumes that we all know about the racial conflicts at the time, and even if we do, it wouldn't kill him to get into it and talk about it and give specific examples, to elaborate and use the opportunity. But no.

I wasn't crazy about this book...didn't find it nearly as provacative, as diverse, as rich, as lyrical as it could have been. I suppose it would not have been considered good manners by him to delve even more into his mother's more private life, but really! The woman that is Ruth disappears behind McBride's sweet praise, and I sense her story would've been truly interesting had and her son viewed her as not just a mother, but also woman. 
And McBride too. His story would've been better if he would've written as a writer as well as a son, not just a lovesick son paying his dues to Mom.

I suppose the book is ok. It's not terrible. I did not fall in love with it, though I know most people have. I'm ok with not loving it though, and can honestly say that this was one of the very few times I've ever picked up a book because of hype, and to be sure, it's the last time
