In "Iron John," Robert Bly announces that American men are all unhappy because the pressures of civilization have caused them to lose touch with their innate maleness.  He illustrates his point with one of the Brothers Grimm's more obscure (and frankly less interesting) stories, interpreting it as an allegory that just happens to prove his point.  He also draws heavily on Freudian and Jungian theories.  He proves his point in the same way Freud and Jung proved theirs' i.e. by saying "This is what I see, I am the expert, so that makes it true, Occham's Razor be darned."  Bly offers no objective evidence to support his positions, nor does he allow room for the possibility of other interpretations or, heaven forbid, that his observations might be wrong.

For example, Bly asserts that men become unhappy around the age of 35 (conveniently neglecting to site research supporting this assertion, despite his objective tone).  Bly explains that this is because at that age men begin to realize that their childhood dreams will not come true.  He does not consider that by age 35, most men have realized that they don't really want to be firemen.  Could this alleged unhappiness possibly be due to media influences that require unhappy customers to sell products to (such as self-help books)?  Naw, it's gotta be that "dreams" thing.

Bly also describes a case where students during the Viet Nam war broke into their college presidents' office to look for proof that the college was collaborating with the CIA.  Bly states that this happened because of the mistrust in male authority figures, because their fathers left home to work, preventing their sons from seeing how men work.  Bly does not consider the possibility that the students may have been righteously angry about the war and confused by their anger.  No, there had to be a "real" reason for the break-in, and aren't we lucky to have Robert Bly to tell us what it is?

Along the way, Bly overloads his writing with literary references, all carefully interpreted to suit his purposes.  It's all very pretentious, er uh, interesting, but so what?  I could interpret the same passages to mean something else.  If I lived at the time the passages were written, my interpretation would most likely be very different, despite Bly's insistence that his ideas are timeless and universal.

Bly' obsession with literary images does more than bog his writing down, however.  It underscores what is wrong with his whole premise.  He tries to build up the notion of the tragedy of lost male identity as objective fact, but uses only subjective views (many not his own and possibly taken wildly out of context) to support the idea.  Sorry Bob, you can't have it both ways.

One gets the impression that "Iron John" was cynically written to fill a niche.  Like all self-help books, "Iron John" targets a specific audience, tells them they are not happy, and insists that only by following his directions can they truly be happy.  Bly's target audience is White men who went to college and felt left out of the various political movements.  If you do not need a political movement to define who you are, then "Iron John" is not for you
