I picked up "White Noise" with eager anticipation. I've heard Don DeLillo's praises sang loudly from many prestigious sources (the New York Times among them), so I was anxious to give him a try myself. I must say that I am disappointed. "White Noise" has done what no other book has achieved in a long time: it thoroughly aggravated me. It reads like a philosophical treatise disguised as a novel where the author clearly didn't care enough about the novel-ish aspects to flesh them out at all. There's a fake-out premise about a billowing black cloud (or "airborne toxic event" as DeLillo grandly calls it) that leads nowhere except to give the people who populate DeLillo's novel something to muse on for the rest of the book. The characters are uniformly annoying, and while they all have characteristics that make them initially intriguing DeLillo manages to squash any interest you may have had in them by refusing to give any dimension to them. The narrator, Jack Gladney, has earned renown as a professor of Hitler studies; his fourth wife Babette teaches classes on posture and eating techniques; son Heinrich is a moody junior philosopher who takes everything literally and figuratively at the same time; colleague Murray hangs out in the grocery store to watch people eagerly consume products; and more. It sounds interesting (hey, it sounds like a Kurt Vonnegut novel -- and, come to think of it, I'd rather read his spin on these characters any day), but DeLillo isn't really interested in them as people. He only presents them as allegories there to spout philosophical dialogue back and forth. Said dialogue is occasionally interesting and sometimes ground-breaking but becomes too tiresome and heavy, and all too often it feels that DeLillo is straining way too hard to make a point that was specious in the first place. Characters are constantly clamoring for definitions in conversations that come off just as irritating as Bill Clinton asking what your definition of "is" is. All this talk, and what is DeLillo ultimately saying? Another reviewer called this a "stubborn, perplexing" book, and I heartily agree. As I said earlier, there are moments where the fog clears and DeLillo makes a good point (pages 147-149 and 317-320 come to mind) but all too often it just feels like he's arguing for argument's sake. Philosophical novels with allegorical characters have been done much better in my opinion -- see "The Lord of the Flies" or "Animal Farm" for examples -- and with far less infuriating results
