I don't really like Christian Fiction because the writing is usually simplistic,shallow and  below par, and this was no exception-the character development and plot line was predictable and plain. I skipped most of the descriptions in Heaven because it seemed too much like a Star Trek episode than anything that could actually be real-95% flight of fancy by the author- plus I didn't want his opinions clouding my knowledge of what the Bible actually says about Heaven. Remember, Heaven isn't  necessarily what we imagine it to be or hope it will be, it is what God created it to be. Also, where exactly does the command not to add anything to God's Word come in here? Randy Alcorn does alot of speaking where God is silent. He is silent for a reason I'm sure, but Mr. Alcorn is just not satisfied with that,so he must make things up and muddy the theological waters.
   The book was way too political and agenda filled- tho I am against abortion, I don't like the public school system tho I have 2 children in it and one homeschooled- etc... but I thought it really mucked up the point of true conversion in a persons life. Plus, when the main character supposedly became a Christian(there was not much detail about that event, so we are just left to imagine that it actually happened) he didn't share his faith with anyone even when they asked questions about why he was so different- he spent all his time afterwards preaching his new politics and moral beliefs,but none sharing the GOspel. That is no different than what liberals do.
  Of course, I was not really surprised he made up most of what he wrote about Heaven, because that is what he did in the book with the same name. He would read a Scripture and then take off on a tangent with it and imagine all sorts of things that are not even hinted at in the Bible.Isn't that what the writers of the Left Behind books get slammed about ? (Which by the way I agree that they went beyond Scripture in an irresponsible way)  I could go on and on, but suffice it to say, this has not endeared me any further to Christian Fiction or Randy Alcorn.
J
