I want to be sure not to come off as too negative, I liked this book.  It's wholesome but not naïve, there's something in it for everyone.  The restoration of an old truck as muse for observations on love, life, the changes in the world since it rolled off the assembly lines, and gardening is a neat idea, so much so that I enjoyed it the first time I read this book, which was in 1977 when the author wrote it.  His name is John Jerome.  Now don't get me wrong, this isn't simply the same book over again, I mean sure the original was about all the same things and it dealt a lot more with the philosophy of the human experience than it did nuts and bolts, and sure it was titled `Truck' and it was about the same length and the guy seemed to view the world through about the same lens and etc. And both Jerome and Perry were free lance magazine writers when they decided to restore old pickups, and both framed a lot of the story around their mechanical clumsiness.  But in the original, the truck was a '50, not a '51 and John Jerome was living with a woman at the start of his book whereas Perry is dating, so it's really totally different.  And Jerome lives in a very small town in New Hampshire, not a very small town in Wisconsin.  Look I'll prove it to you.  Here's the opening sentence of Jerome's book `PROBLEM:  Hauling horseshit for the garden one barrelful at a time is a depressingly inefficient system' whereas Truck (oops, I mean the new book) starts with the polar opposite `The story begins on a pile of sheep manure the size of a yurt'  See?  horse poo and sheep poo are not at all the same.  I once heard that a guy in Nabokov's village had written a book much like `Lolita' 20 years earlier and Nabokov is known to have read it.  They don't think he stole it, they think he mistook his memory for an inspiration.  There's even a word for it, cryptomnesia.  I'm not sure if Michael Perry did the same thing, maybe there's a forgotten copy of `Truck' by John Jerome in his old bedroom at his parents' place, or maybe this is the official world's biggest coincidence, I'll tell you one thing I don't believe for a second Perry tried to steal the original book, he seems too good a guy and at least too smart to use the same title.  Angel though he might be however, this is someone else's book. 
