
Physical labor sucks.

Okay, you know that, I know that, even Paris and Nicole (thanks to their reality show) have gotten it through their puny little brainage, but it's news to Barbara Ehrenreich, whose previous stints as Ph.D earner, activist and writer did not expose her to the grubby working world of dirty hands and aching muscles that most of us have managed to live through. 

It's a shame. This could have been such a great book, but B.E.'s got a preconceived agenda (welfare reform is never gonna work!) and an axe to grind (unless we raise minimum wage to 14 bucks an hour!).  To prove her point she goes undercover for the better part of a year, taking entry-level, low-skilled work while staying in expensive short-term housing. Of course, she could of just crunched numbers -"Let's see, 7 bucks an hour times 40 hours, while my pretend rent is $200 a week...carry the zero...nope, can't afford it" - but that would have just given her a puny little 2,000 word article for Mother Jones.  Book deals, on the hand, require more work, more commitment, but think of the royalties, so off she goes, just like Paris and Nicole, to work as a waitress, maid and Wal-Mart associate.

At least until it gets too hard.  B.E.'s got a litany of complaints - my feet hurt, my back hurts, piss tests are demeaning, my boss is a jerk, customers are rude, my back huuuurts - and seems to think that only the minimum wager has to suffer such indignities.  News flash, Barbara!  Every job is stressful in its own way.  I'm a RN and it's a rare day I don't come home feeling like I've been beat with a stick.  I've been verbally abused and cussed out more times than I can remember, and that's just by the docs.  I've been pee'd on, poo'd on, run ragged, and called  "girl" by my stupidvisor (My response: I'm older than you, and I've had sex, and I'm pretty sure you haven't by the looks of you, so, boss, who's the "girl" here, and who's the WOMAN.)  I will admit I get paid significantly more for my putting-up-with-BS than the average Walmartian does for his.  But then again I earned a college degree, I had to pass a difficult competency test and I work under the constraints of my nursing license, for which I had to get fingerprinted and background checked.  So that's why I get paid more than a minimum wager, even though our jobs, probably 97% of the time, are comparable.

I'll give B.E. 2 stars for her writing.   It's smart and witty and at times, she borders on hilarious, especially when she's mocking the minorities and poor that she claims to want to help.  Hey, I didn't say she was compassionate, I said she was funny.  

B.E., if you're reading this, consider this angle next time you want to write a book about not getting by.  Write a book about being poor and uninsured.  Write a book about wanting to advance your position in life, but not being able to, because as soon as you take that better paying job or go into business for yourself you'll be kicked off medicaid, and you'll run out of inhalers for your asthmatic kid, and you'll have to listen to him wheeze all night, and when you take him to the charity clinic a week from Tuesday, because that's the only time the retired charity doc can see you, you won't be able to afford the prescription since it's over a hundred bucks for one inhaler, so then you have to quit your job so you can qualify for medicaid.  Then when you're done with that, write another book, this time about the lack of decent public transportation in the majority of the U.S., and how this results in needing a car to survive, which leads to excessive personal income spent on cars, more tax money spent on roads and highways, to say nothing of the hidden costs of car accidents and obesity from driving everywhere because it's too dangerous, with all the cars on the road, to ride a bike.  Those books would be worth reading.  
