I attempted this book with great expectations but ended wishing for much more.  Some parts were interesting, I enjoyed the introduction and the first two chapters, on the bible and [mostly] Greek mythology were very good.  The rest of the book had engaging vignettes but overall they were verbose, bland and non-conclusive.  The whole book seemed to me a little like navel-gazing or a sketch of an idea, with lots of dangling ideas.  For some odd reason the book concludes with "lying" in nature (camouflage, mimicry, misdirection, etc.).  For a while it looked like the author was going to say that this is where we first learned to lie, but luckily she does not make that mistake.  In the end it was like the rest of the book, a collage of interesting stories that the author noticed.

There was a section on the middle ages, centered around witch-hunting, the ordeal and Malleus Maleficarum that I found very interesting, but in the end it seemed there was no end.  It seemed that the author was really enjoying her writing, and one vignette followed another until the end of the chapter where the author tries to wrap up the chapter and then quickly moves on to the next chapter with:  "Conclusion?  Human beings have devoted inordinate effort to exposing lies and determining the truth.  This being the case, we shouldn't be surprised to find that there has been a great deal of effort in the opposite direction as well..."  This is an incredibly bland and obvious conclusion for a very interesting chapter.  The next chapter is about lying in war where the author makes the amazing statement people (governments) condone and actually do lie and deceive the enemy in war!  There is a review of Sun Tzu that has the depth of a puddle.  All-in-all, everything in this chapter should be obvious to anyone who is awake.  

The chapter on "lie detector" machines was interesting but, again, shallow.  Throughout this book there has been an almost complete lack of science, depth, or "rigor".  Lately a couple of researchers in San Francisco have come up with some amazing information on facial forms (the meanings of the combinations of all the possible muscle-movements in the face), most of them communicate information and many of them relate to how we perceive trustworthiness, but there is not a mention of this or any other recent science in this book.

It seems to me that a book such as this could take one of two tracks.  Either the author could go deep into the modern science and the latest studies with a lot of deep information, or the author could give a lot of history, background and opinion.  Mostly, this book does neither.  This book leans more to background information, but without depth.  The author almost completely avoids giving personal opinion or experience (excluding the introduction) and there are almost no actual conclusions.

I would not be interested in a broad conclusion such as "Lying is good/bad", but there are many opportunities where for a certain action or time, there could be a discussion about whether the objectives were met, what the repercussions were, etc.  For some vignettes this happened (operation Mincemeat was pretty good, "lie detectors" had a few ideas wrapped up) but many (uncle Remus, the Indian myths of Krishna, all vignettes of war or state action) were pretty much quickly introduced and then left hanging.  At one point (they are in the index) the author mentions Locke and Descartes and discusses their philosophy for most of two pages.  To cover these two philosophers in less than two pages is a little too quick for me.  There is no context or history.  I couldn't follow how their philosophy affected those who followed, but this is partly due to the verbose style of writing in addition to the lack of narrative.

One last problem with this book was that the endnotes were not noted in the text, so I often was looking in the back to see if what I just read had some more information or a source.
