This book was recomended to me by a naturopath. It was easy enough to read in just one evening. The sections about how bones grow and what your risk factors are for getting osteoporosis were quite good. There is also good advice about what vitamins and minerals in addition to calcium to include in your diet, as well as the importance of vitamin D and sunshine, for calcium absorbtion. However, the food section is confusing. Nelson does not mention sea vegetables as the best food source of calcium and minerals to include in a healthy diet. And since she has the opinion that a person can get all the calcium they need from food sources, she should have included a more accurate calcium food chart in her book. For example, spinach, which tops the vegetable calcium secton, contains a lot of oxalic acid which interfers with calcium absorbtion. Nelson mentions the oxalic acid problem with some foods, but never mentions exactly which foods contain the highest amounts. Instead she says we should eat these foods for other reasons. So, why is spinach at the top of the calcium chart? Let's have a more accurate chart before telling people they can just add up what they are taking in with the chart she provides. Also, in her section on exercises she encourages women over 50 to jump vertically to retain calcium. A woman should gradually build up to 2 full minutes of jumping. What if a persons knees are not in alignment? Jumping is one of the most jarring and hardest things a person can do to their knee joints, especially if they are heavy on their feet. A woman who is over 50 and not used to exercising could easily get injured with this jumping program. I am over 50, and I already exercise 5 or 6 days a week, doing aerobics, running and weight training. I tried jumping vertically at a fitness center in front of a mirror to make sure I did it correctly. Then I went on to do a leg press, which I do on a regular basis, and my left knee hurt. My personal trainer said running would be much better for me than jumping. I do not have joint problems, yet, but I could after Neilson's exercise program. Also, the medication section encourages every woman to consider hormone replacement therapy. Does we all really need this therapy? I am discouraged that this book was rated so highly and recomended. It was mostly a waste of money. Only the first couple sections in the book were really worth reading. Check it out at the library or buy it used if you must
