I reluctantly give this book one star only because it provides some interesting information. Please be aware, though, that the author veers between sense and nonsense. Some of his explanations are intriguing, such as the source of the phrase "bobe mayse." However, at times he writes as though his comments are universally accepted facts rather than his own interpretation. I was extremely upset that he presumed to speak for anyone but himself and did not clarify that he was doing so. 

The most egregious example concerns his comments about "goyim." He starts by referring to a "goyishe kop" which according to him means an idiot or simpleton, rather than someone who does not necessarily think the same way a Jew might (and why should a non-Jew think like a Jew, when their experiences may be vastly different?). He then writes, "On the great chain of Yiddish being, gentiles fall somewhere between Francis the Talking Mule and Bigfoot, and goy is almost always as much as to say uneducated, uncouth,uncircumcised--". In my opinion, this  inflammatory statement marks Wex himself as decidedly uncouth, although apparently educated and perhaps circumcised. I don't know why he chose to make statements like these, but he does NOT speak for anyone but himself. In the glossary he translates "goy" as "non-Jewish man" ("goye" being the female equivalent). I was astonished that he did not provide the literal translation, which is "nation." Look up, for example, Exodus 19:5, in which God tells Moses to tell the people of Israel: "Now therefore, if you will obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my own possession among all peoples... [6] and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation." The Hebrew for "nation" is "goy."   Further, in Exodus 34:10: "And he said, 'Behold, I seal a covenant. Before your entire people I will do marvels, such as have never been created in the entire world and among all the nations'..." -- the Hebrew for nations is "goyim."  So non-Jews are no more nor less than parts of goyim/nations, and Jews are part of a goy/nation called the Children of Israel. Therefore, a Jew is just as likely as a non-Jew to behave like an idiot; and since Jews have been charged by God to keep His covenant in order to be considered His people, it is perhaps less forgivable when a Jew behaves badly. 

The author's comments in the next few pages about "shikses" are equally abhorrent, but I will aggravate myself no further with attempts at clarification. I hope readers understand that they should read this book with caution, if at all
