"Karl Marx, years ago, gave a description of why this might be happening. He followed the most moral and meritocratic theory for wealth and value: an object is worth as much as the effort it takes to make." 

NO IT'S NOT!!! An object's worth is based upon both the supply of an object and the demand for it arrising from consumers. To imply that it comes from the effort it takes to make implies that a milkshake that takes only a few minutes to make is worth far less than a vial of poison that took an hour to make or an atomic bomb that took months to make, which would mean that we should subsidize the military-industrial complex, since all those workers worked hard to create those deadly things. 

"Petty-bourgeois' owners, i.e. the mom-and-pop stores and small business in general, of which my grandpa, a dentist, was a part of, are being driven under by corporate chain competition in retail." 

This is either to the innefficiency in their store to meet consumer demands or to the massive regulations burdened upon them by the government. All regulations do nothing but add an increased burden on to competition and thus kills them out. There's a reason why the owner's of Wal-Mart recently said that the federal government should increase the minimum wage to over $8, as this would cause many smaller businesses to go bankrupt, lay off employees, and prevent future businesses from starting up to compete with Wal-Mart. Another problem is the subsidies that the smaller store pays to Wal-Mart (Wal-Mart collects millions in subsidies due to Marx's Labor Theory of Value once again) and of the use of emminent domain abuse (which can be justified on the grounds of the "greater good" as opposed to the individual good of your mom and pop stores). 

"But no theory is ever flawless, and socialists should be able to correct their past flaws to account for human nature and "reality." There is no reason to believe that heavy social hierarchy and class division is a necessary evil; workers CAN manage their lives just fine through cooperatives." 

Sure there is. Human beings are inherently unequal, differing in many skills, abilities, ambition, the choices that they make in life, how they apply their time, etc. etc. Of course, there is isn't any reason that individuals can't create wealth nonetheless, creating goods and services that help others out in exchange for some good or service itself. And cooperatives need to be voluntary first. Nor can cooperatives produce the bulk of wealth.  There needs to be some Division of Labor, Trade and Commerce, etc. or else all cooperatives end up as hunter-gatherering tribes reduced to the real law of the jungle to survive.  This can't happen if everything is collectively owned. 

"Since workers are the sole producers of goods from scratch to end" 

NO! Entreprenuers, innovators, etc. provide much of the creativity, design, direction for the purchase and use of capital goods, negotiation of deals, evaluation of threats, problems, and consumer requests, and other such things. It wasn't the workers at Microsoft who created cheap desktop computers, it was Bill Gates, the workers are merely a form of mass-production who help out, but ultimately mass produce a good or service in exchange for privately owned wages, caused by supply and demand.
