An obvious treatise on preterism. While I agree with Hanegraaff on his criticisms of LaHaye, who is an obvious false prophet. I disagree with the main conclusion totally. That is that all the books of the bible were written prior to 70 AD. Most scholars liberal AND conservative agree that the Book of Revelation was written about 95 AD. What Hanegraaff tries to do is what preterists do to make the story fit. Change the dating of the scriptures. But there is an obvious problem here. That is Hanegraaff
builds his theology on an assumption, conjecture and a presupposition.
Mainly, that the Apostle John, being a Jew from birth, having adored the Temple all his life, would HAVE TO HAVE included the destruction of the Temple in his writing of the Book of Revelation. But would he? To lay that into the dust one needs only to read the first paragraphs of the Book. Lets do that shall we? Rev 1:1-3
1:1 Introduction and Benediction

The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Him to show His servants -- things which must shortly take place. And He sent and signified it by His angel to His servant John, 2 who bore witness to the word of God, and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, to all things that he saw . 3 Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written in it; for the time is near. 
NKJV

JOHN DID NOT WRITE ON HIS OWN VOLITION! Did you get that? It was not his words at all. He wrote what "he saw" and what "he heard". Hanegraaff assumes that John is writing theology or history, but this is a book of prophecy. He wrote what he was instructed to write as a witness. Hanegraaff seems to have little faith here as he assumes that John writes on his own.

Furthermore in his musings that the "Whore of Babylon" can only be Israel, because Israel was at various times a Harlot with it's pagan neighbors (this I agree) is also false. Hanegraaff chooses to ignore totally the historic significance of the various beasts, which incidentally match perfectly with those in the book of Daniel. Those lead clearly to Rome, but in Revelation a "woman" rides a beast. A woman has also been identified as a church. And where is the "city on seven hills"? You have two choices, Rio de Janeiro or Rome, take your pick. Historically it has ALWAYS been Rome. What John is visualizing is an apostate church. Contrary, or parallel to the good Woman, the bride of Christ in chapter 12.Rev 17:3-6
 4 The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the filthiness of her fornication.   5 And on her forehead a name was written:

MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. 

6 I saw the woman , drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled with great amazement. 
NKJV

 Babylon was Israel or Jerusalem? NO! Let the Apostle speak to this:
1 Peter 5:13

13 She who is in Babylon , elect together with you, greets you; and so does Mark my son.
NKJV

Here Peter spoke from Rome and identified what the Apostles considered to be Babylon. So how could Rome be riding Rome? There is a Whore riding the Beast. The Beast is Rome, the Whore is an apostate church.
Remember, 
9 "Here is the mind which has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits.
NKJV
 The woman SITS ON THE CITY OF 7 HILLS! 

So while I agree with Hanegraaff that LaHaye speaks falsely on the secret rapture, which was written BTW by a Catholic Jesuit and his comments were circulated in the Scofield Bible commentary, I disagree with Hanegraaff
on the assumptions he makes about the Apostle John and his affinity towards the Temple. Hanegraaff who mentions Christian Zionism and it's dangers should have used that same theology in evaluating his revelation/temple hypothesis. It is clear that the Temple services had expired with Christ death on the cross. He was the anti-type of the sacrificial system. Matt 27:51
51 Then, behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom; 
NKJV
It mentions this in three of the Gospels. And Paul clearly states in Romans that a Jew is one who has a circumcised heart. That we are neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free etc. And in Romans 9-11 Paul gives a deep explanation how the Jews stumbled at the stumbling stone.
His comments are clear that Israel, was a "spiritual Israel" made up of believers. This incidentally was the belief of the early church fathers in their writings. That the natural branches could be grafted back in. HOW? By faith just as Gentiles are, not by blood or race. John had no reason to have a concern for the Temple or Jerusalem. It is only the place where his Lord was crucified. And in fact, Jerusalem is given the name "Egypt" in the Book of Revelation, NOT Babylon! The promises to Israel were conditional, based "IF" you keep my covenant, "IF" you obey my commands. God's people are those who believe in Christ.

Hanegraaff ignores the historical context associated with the prophecy based on it's connection to the book of Daniel. I find this book lacking true biblical exegesis and systematic theological reasoning. It is nothing more than a championing of preterism.
