The biggest problem I have with this book is the problem I have with just about every Pat Conroy book...especially the Great Santini: the experience of one particular generation of military brats is taken to be the experience of ALL military brats. Even worse, when many civilians read books like this, it only reinforces the negative perceptions and stereotypes they already have. Books like this, unfortunately, become gospel to all the nay-sayers out there.

I have done a great deal of academic research on American military families since the end of World War II. My entire master's degree program was devoted to this subject. I'm a military brat myself. Thirteen of the first 16 years of my life were spent overseas. So, I like to believe that I'm an expert on the issue. To put things into further perspective, though, both Wertsch and Conroy are closer to my PARENTS' age (Baby Boomers) than MY age. This is my point of departure.

I was born in the mid-'70s. Hence, I'm every bit a child of the '80s. While there were many things I can identify with--the lack of a "home", the constant need to change, adapting, etc.--there were many things that I didn't necessarily relate to. Without going into detail, I know that a lot of this stems from the fact that I grew up in a different point in history than Wertsch and Conroy (the "late" Cold War period rather than the "early" period). I grew up during the age of the All-Volunteer force, when the U.S. military was at its greatest size, when there was the greatest system of support for military families, particularly overseas. On more than one occasion while I was reading this book, I found myself thinking, "That wasn't MY experience." And I know it wasn't the experience of most of the brats I grew up with. By the same token, current post-Cold War, post-9-11 brats probably have experienced things very different from what I experienced.

I don't want to say that there is no value in this book; on the contrary there is a GREAT DEAL of value. However, I believe this is only PART of the story. The sad part is that too many people are taking books like this to be the be-all, end-all in terms of the military brat experience. For me, personally, growing up a brat is the best thing that ever happened to me. It's made me who I am, and if I could do it all over again, Iw wouldn't do anything differently.  
