I read the commentary of John 6:52-53 and he says that the phrases "eat my flesh" and "drink my blood" can't be an alussion to the Eucharist, because both verbs are in aorist and this would mean that these actions are about a unique and irrepetible event,and we can't say that about the Eucharist. 
Well, I want to say this with all the respect, and what I can tell you is that Leon Morris is completly wrong: I went to my Analytical Greek New Testament and I saw that John 6:52 or 53 has both verbs, eat and drink in aorist subjuntive active. After that I looked for identical verb forms in the Gospel of John and I found that if you go to John 17,10 you will read this: 
"If you OBEY my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands and remain in his love". 
Well, in the Greek Text the verb "obey" is in aorist subjuntive active voice, just like John 6:52 or 53. If we follow Leon Morris definition of the aorist, this would mean that it is enough to obey Jesus only once in a lifetime, and we will remain in Jesus'love forever. That's simply absurd and anti biblical. Read John 15:6. Leon Morris gives us a sample of how a heresy (the zwinglianism = salvation is sola fide, sacraments are nothing but symbols ) can make a good scholar be faithful to Zwingli, and forget about a good service to God's Word. If you go to Mark 7: 3-4 you will find that the greek verbs that the NIV translatates "give...a ceremonial washing" and "wash" are also aorist, subjuntive, and they can't be understood as "once in a lifetime" action: 
"The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they GIVE their hands A CEREMONIAL WASHING", holding to the tradition of the elders. 4When they come from the marketplace they do not eat unless they WASH. And they observe many other traditions, such as the washing of cups, pitchers and kettles" (Mark 7:3-4). The meaning is clear, the pharisees wash their hands each time that they came back home from their market place, and the same way Jesus tells us that each time (ean me) we eat Jesus flesh, Jesus gives us eternal life. Luther was right in this point, and Zwingli and Leon Morris, his disciple and not so good greek scholar are wrong.    
    
