Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine written by Voronica Whitney-Robinson with Haden Blackman was the first Star Wars novel published based on a videogame. When I hear about an upcoming movie or novel based on a game, I tend to believe that it will likely be a shallow, cash-in type of affair. Unfortunately, with this novel, that is indeed the case. The feel of the book is that of an overlong and not very compelling advertisement for the massively-multiplayer Star Wars Galaxies game, rather than being a quality read that stands on its own.

The storyline concerns Dusque Mistflier, an Imperial bioengineer who falls in with a mysterious apparent Rebel sympathizer named Finn Darktrin. Dusque is uncertain of the morality of her job and fears the Empire is using her research for nefarious ends. The sudden loss of her closest comrade at the tender mercies of Imperial Stormtroopers throws her over the edge and she's suddenly off on the run with Finn trying to round up a missing holocron for the Rebel Alliance. As they adventure together, a plot twist is foreshadowed MANY times to a point where I can't believe a single reader wouldn't see the ending of the novel coming from miles away. 

Dusque and Finn are largely generic character-types like you would find in your typical videogame. They are assigned small quests and have random encounters just like a game. They have boss fights and missions just like a game. In short, there's no organic flow to their story: it feels like arbitrary plot points strung together. Adding to this in a negative way is the shoe-horning into the plot of almost every main film character from the classic trilogy. Vader shows up twice, Luke and Leia bop in and out, Han and Chewie are randomly flying escort to Dusque and Finn at one point, C-3PO is assigned to be a pathfinder droid for the duo (!), and Lando shows up just because a scene takes place in a casino. These cameos add nothing. I did enjoy the cameo of Nym, the pirate from the Starfighter videogames; he felt like a more natural addition to this story, even though he didn't really have anything to do.

The key plot point is hard to reconcile. Would the Rebel Alliance really be so foolish as to encode a holocron (typically a device only used by Jedi or Sith in the rest of the EU) with a full contact list of every spy in their network? This defies the whole concept of organization by cell and doesn't seem very likely. To top it off, they lose this fantastically critical asset and it ends up stuck in a fire pit in a cave? I find this difficult to swallow.

One of the interesting aspects of the book is how frequently it delves into biology and zoology. We are treated to a veritable parade of fauna as the story winds along. Whitney-Robinson has worked as a veterinary assistant and as a marine biologist, so it's easy to see where this focus came from. It does lend the book a bit of much-needed character and distracts from the cardboard-cutout main characters.

I take no joy in writing a review this negative but I simply didn't find much to like about Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine. Thankfully, this book didn't stop Del Rey from trying a second book based on a videogame, Karen Traviss' superb Republic Commando: Hard Contact. The difference in readability and insight in the novels is dramatic, and I'm not surprised that Traviss was asked to start producing Republic Commando sequels, as her books don't read like a game at all. I'm sorry to say that I could only recommend The Ruins of Dantooine to someone obsessive enough to have to read every Star Wars novel written like myself.
