I remember watching Johnny Carson (The Tonight Show) when Richard Pryor came on and talked about his "freebasing accident."  The thing I remember most was Pryor indicating how surprised and loved he felt at the outpouring of support and concern he received from fans.  He seemed a humble and likeable man.  This man does not appear in Rain Pryor's book.  

I have to say, it didn't take reading very far into this book to have no feelings of respect for the Richard Pryor she portrays.  He was a brilliant comic, but, according to his daughter, he was a lousy human being.  He brutalized women on a regular basis (including her).  He was an absolutely horrible father.  He abused drugs and alcohol.  What is amazing to me is Rain's continued professions of love for him throughout the book.  

I was raised in a family where my step-father was an alcoholic.  He was occasionally violent.  My mother was a classic enabler.  Once I left home, I got a lot of therapy.  I was able to admit to myself that I didn't like either of my parents.  They didn't deserve my love.  I took care of my mother in her old age, but I had no delusions about her being a good person.  For these reasons, I have real trouble following Rain's rationalizations about her father, her constantly saying, "he was despicable  but I still loved him."  Maybe she is actually harboring some unresolved ill feelings about him, however, because she put some really awful, even embarrassing pictures from the end of his life in this book.  Shame on her co-writer and shame on her editors for allowing it.

As far as the book itself goes, it is not well written.  This Cathy Crimmins, who helped Rain write the book, should be hiding her head.  The book is repetitious.  It has editing errors.   It is often self-indulgent.  It is essentially a one note samba: my parents didn't give me enough love.   I kept the copy I had in the bathroom, where I could read it in little snippets.  That's about all I could take. 

I think for a view of some of Richard Pryor's life it has some interest.  I also think it is a great example of someone who went through life thinking only of himself and someone who had no clue how to love anyone else.  I wish it had been less of a breathless Hollywood tell-all, however.  It would have served both Richard and Rain better if it had delved more deeply into either or both of their characters.
