Through the book I felt that the author was not able to grab me with the emotional intensity that he was going for.  I never could quite buy into the whole "The Big Pharma's Are All Bad."  I did really like the end of the book.  I felt a real connection and love between him and his wife, even though she had passed away.  The author also let's us know what is going to happen:  he will be killed also.  Then he lets the protagonist Jason discover it for himself.  When he is closest to his wife, at the place she was killed, and closest to her cause.

Le Carre points an accusing finger at the US in his book and end notes, but provides little detail to support his accusations.  In fact, BIg Pharma is multinational.  Some of the largest like Bayer are German.  These are the companies that helped gas the Jews.  Looking for an atrocity?  Why not let us write about documented proven suffering without writing books about fictional conspiracy theories, which by his own admission at the end of the book do not exist.  I feel he has an axe to grind with these people.

My Opinion:  Big Pharma gets a bad rap.  I think I owe my life to a monoclonal antibody called rituxan:  

Rituxan® (Rituximab) is a unique therapy that works by selectively depleting CD20+ B-cells. B-cells, and their role in Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Rheumatoid Arthritis, have been an area of intensive research by scientists around the world, and at Genentech and Biogen Idec. Rituxan affects your immune system by selectively targeting CD20+ B-cells shown to play an important role in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis.

Side effects?  Oh it had side effects all right.  It cured my knee problems (which I assume to be arthritis) at the same time it cured my cancer.  The old treatment?  Well CHOP Chemotherapy which I also got killed my memory and without the synergistic effect of Rituxan I would probably have relapsed by now.

I just think Big Business gets a bad rap in general from the liberal communist crowd and it is just not that way.  You have to take the good and the bad with all systems.  What would LeCarre have us put in place?  A system where the Government does all the research?  No Thanks.  My belief is I would be dead.  Since I believe it, it's true.  I'll take my chances with Big Pharma.  Meanwhile the weak minded soak up LeCarre's stories like they are fact, then point the finger at the multinationals, when it is all taken so grossly out of proportion.  So in telling well crafted lies which he terms fiction, LeCarre makes his living and in his way bilks the reader and does a disservice to the patient's suffering.  That's one way of looking at it anyway.  What system does he propose?  Communism?  No thanks we have been there and done that haven't we?

Don't get me wrong I liked the book and really want to see the movie.  It brought out the tragic beauty of Africa and the beauty of the depth of some of the relationships.  But I think there was a large dose of propaganda thrown in to boot
