  If you think Bill's other books were a laugh a minute then you'll enjoy this lexicon of hyperbolic spin. He doesn't prevaricate about everything, but O'Reilly's pontifical assault on people who ostensibly lean toward the left gets to be over the top. Bill Clinton and Al Gore are just a couple of Democrats that he caustically lambastes in this book, which isn't a bad thing. The Clinton and Gore Administration committed many serious moral crimes; NAFTA (the North American Free Trade Agreement) being the worst of them all, unfortunately O'Reilly doesn't even mention anything about it. If he wanted to make an airtight case against the Clinton Administration, nailing him on the NAFTA issue would have been the way to do it, considering many Americans lost their jobs behind this travesty. O'Reilly then goes on about Bill Moyers, Ted Kennedy, Hillary Clinton and so on. The issue I do agree with O'Reilly on is that if Hillary Clinton runs for president in 2008 the Democrats and the nation will see more dark days ahead of them. 
Moreover, if you're looking for typical rightwing reactionary commentary you've come to the right place. O'Reilly is Rupert Murdock's propaganda pigeon through and through. When O'Reilly attacks the media's insalubrities, he focuses his attention on celebrities instead of the source. He slams individuals such as Whitney Houston, Jennifer Lopez, and Bobby Brown because of their nefarious practices. Instead of slamming these people why not slam the media for promoting their acidulous behavior. His boss owns over eighty tabloid newspapers in Europe. So, why not reprimand Murdock. 
What made the arguments in this book really silly was when O'Reilly said "I believe George W. Bush is personally honest but [he] is also a charter member of the power-establishment club that plays by its own rules. To credit, Mr. Bush has a vision he thinks will help working Americans. But theoretical caring and actively looking out for people and crusading for justice are two very different things." I can't believe this guy has the audacity to claim that Bush is honest and that he cares. If Hurricane Katrina reveals anything about Bush, it reveals where his heart truly resides, and it's not with the American people or the ethical side of politics. It's scary to even imagine that many Americans actually take O'Reilly seriously.
This book is an easy read (in other words it's very simple). Just remember to investigate his facts before buying into his rightwing rhetoric. Many things he magniloquently articulates are accurate but there are always two sides to every story. If he spent as much time lambasting the Neo-Con like he did the (so-called) Leftwing then maybe he would be taken more seriously. 


