There is some value in this book. It offers a helpful emphasis on being attentive to the task at hand, being wholly involved with it as it really is. By looking at your own work without preconception, it becomes possible to grasp the happy accident or to use the flow of creativity to the fullest. Working without concern for what everyone else will say, it becomes possible to enjoy the moment for what it is, not for what someone says it should be. That much I can go along with.

I just can't agree with other parts of this book's message. Somehow, Langer's "mindfulness" has a mindlessness about it that I can't accept. Many kinds of art demand thorough planning and preparation of a kind that Langer seems to discard. Even painting for fun can benefit from thought and organization, without demanding iron-bound rigidity in following one's plans. Discipline, the antithesis of Langer's meandering, free-flowing "mindfulness", helps a beginning artist develop skills that eventually translate into fluency. When the brush becomes a natural extension of the hand, then the artist can focus more deeply and fully on the artwork and less on the mechanics of making a mark. I agree that criticism can be discouraging, but I also know that high levels of achievement demand a clear-eyed ability to spot the weaknesses in one's own work. That crucial faculty of self-critique can only be learned by engaging in critique, of one's own work and the work of others. I have to conclude that the artist to whom Langer wrote this book is a casual hobbyist or a dabbler. No one who wants to make a living in fine or applied arts can afford the looseness of the approach described here, and the dedicated amateur will fast outgrow it. 

My profoundest reservations, however, are tangential to the main thrust of the book. For a working academic, I found her massive reliance on her own unpublished writings odd. Peer review is no guarantee of quality work, I know, but is this work really so hard to get accepted into print? If so, why? And, despite her experience in clinical psychology, her description of suicidal thought in terms of excess criticism is simplistic at best. 

There are lots of other books out there on developing the artist's skill and spirit - those will probably serve you better.

//wiredweir
