For a book with such an empowering title for women, it sure doesn't give them much credit. This book stresses the message that a woman's only calling is to produce children and support her husband relentlessly. Wilson seems very frightened of what might happen if she so much as disrespects her husband once or isn't there for him enough. For example, she advises treating your body like your husband's garden so he may enjoy it whenever he pleases and always having your breasts available to him because he might be tempted by another woman's breasts (this gave me a humorous image of a woman thrusting her chest in her husband's face when he glances at another woman). There seems to be a note of fear in these words, as though Wilson truly feels a husband will stray if he's not constantly reminded that he can have sex with his wife. If Wilson's so concerned about disrespecting men, maybe she should consider how disrespectful that presumption of male lust sounds. This book has such a negative view of women that it harps on and on about how we need men to take care of us because we apparently can't take care of ourselves. Both sexes are portrayed badly here; if I couldn't take care of myself, I certainly wouldn't want to be in the care of a man who needed a constant view of my breasts to keep from straying! The book is full of offensive remarks about marriage, particularly the claim that it's not a partnership. What does two becoming one mean, if not a partnership and a joining together? The book also preaches that the husband is head of the wife, though the usage of the word here is different than the Biblical one. Constant comments such as, "you must always refer to your head; your head has the final say" imply that Wilson believes women, upon marriage, should give up use of their brains and place their husband's heads literally on their own shoulders. This goes far beyond loving and respecting a husband in a Godly way. I cannot see how people can embrace this book, but I'm going to caution women to stay away from it; try Liz Curtis Higgs instead. One final note of interest: inspite of Wilson's many different suggestions of how to sexually please your husband (because he might get bored if you stick to one way), her own husband, in his book for men, says quite plainly that he believes sex is a duty and doesn't need spark in order to be pleasing. I wonder if his wife knows this?...
