Hopefully without offending vegetarians, my question about this book is...where's the beef? The Creation of Psychopharmacology is filled with claims which the author, David Healy, appears to believe the reader will be sufficiently knowledgeable to take at face value.  But it is the claims themselves - and evidence for and against their accuracy - which presumably should be at the heart of this book.  For example, at p. 170, the author states that when "SSRI withdrawal was shown to exist in the late 1990s, the medical establishment denied that SSRIs could be addictive."  Nevertheless, the author reports, by the time millions were taking SSRIs, "users faced the prospect of inadvertantly being hooked."  What does any of this mean?  "SSRI withdrawal" presumably means withdrawing from using SSRIs just as a politician might consider withdrawing from an election campaign.  If the author means SSRI withdrawal SYMPTOMS or CONSEQUENCES were shown to exist, then the part about the late 1990s is weird.  Consequences exist when the use of ANY drug, perhaps any medication, is terminated.  One did not have to wait for the 1990s.  If you withdraw from using a nasal spray, you may have a rebound effect.  If you stop drinking coffee cold turkey, you may experience withdrawal symptoms.  So too with SSRIs, the use of which should not be abruptly terminated, as it says on the little plastic bottle.  This is news?  If the author means that in the late 1990s, it was discovered that SSRIs cause "dependence," then we might reasonably expect to be told what that means.  Millions "depend" on SSRIs to cope with depression.  Uh...okay.  That sounds good, not bad.  Something you can finally depend on!  But if the author means "dependence" as in "addiction," then where's the proof?  Xanax is "fiercely addictive," as Peter Kramer says, in Listening to Prozac.  But the author of The Creation of Psychopharmacology offers NO evidence at all that SSRIs are "addictive" in the sense that Valium or Heroin are addictive.  When is the last time you were mugged by someone desperate for money to buy Zoloft?  So here you have a book by a psychiatrist who testifies on SSRIs and suicide in federal court, a book published by Harvard Univ. Press with one blurb on the back, by the noted historian Edward Shorter, which makes the extraordinary claim that millions risk "inadvertantly" (they take the medication by accident?  they are being lied to by the 'medical establishment'?) becoming "hooked" (shooting Celexa with a needle?)or addicted to SSRIs without providing any proof for this claim other than the suggestion that when you stop using an SSRI, presumably gradually as advised by your physician, you may feel different than when you were taking the medication? You feel different when you stop taking aspirin for headaches (more pain in the head region) or stop eating so much ice cream and other dairy products (e.g., less congestion).  Surely there must be more to addiction, being inadvertantly hooked, than this.  Perhaps Harvard Univ. Press or even David Healy could straighten us out as to why this book skims along the surface, taking ever so much for granted, while supplying oh so little research.  Bald statements may be enough for the historian, Professor Shorter, or even a lay person jury in a civil trial, but serious readers have a right to expext more...don't we
