I already knew that Michael Savage was a draft dodger since I always check the New Hampshire Chickenhawk Database. From some reason they do not have his birthday. According to the official "Name Authority" from the Library of Congress database, his real name is Michael A. Weiner and he was born March 31, 1942. But why is he a hypocrit regarding American soldiers like me?

Dr. Weiner/Savage does the usual butter-me-up, like on page 104. He talks about former Hollywood actors who served in WWII, "True American heroes yes...They, unlike the empty suits of today, fought shoulder-to-shoulder alongside America's finest young boys. The farmers, the steelworkers, the taxi drivers. The people who made this country great." The only problem here is that he is describing MY family and not his.

His image of former soldiers is extremely negative and very offensive to me. In describing a veteran expressing his true feelings about war "war is awful..he never wanted to fight, he didn't believe in fighting although he wore the uniform [what do you mean Weiner?] and yes he was a hero and has many medals even though he naver actually fought." This isn't even the pot calling the kettle black. "Their anti-war comments both undermine our troops' morale and encourage our enemies by creating a picture of a divided front." Weiner also states, "[t]he ill-informed comments of these camera-craving, ex-military types in the attempt to prop-up a sagging self-esteem, do extensive damage to the war on terror and our military." Keep that second comment in mind, but who is the guy with the self-esteem problem? He doesn't have any "fake" medals so who is he to criticize a person who actually served?

If anybody is harming our troops it is Weiner/Savage. On page 88 he actually tells us it is okay for al-Qaida to kill our soldiers. Really. "If you were a leader or an intellectual in the Muslim world and you saw the debauchery promulgated by the West...and saw your young people gravitating toward the filth pumped over your airwaves, what would you do? Frankly you would support al-Qaida or any organization [like al-Qaida in Iraq or the Taliban in Afghanistan?] that would want to stop that flood of pollution from entering your country." Thanks for clearing up why it is okay for these guys to kill our soldiers. And here I thought they just hated our freedoms. 

There are other problems with this book. On page 108 he decries the "intense use of drugs." Yeah, like Limbaugh's abuse of Oxycontin that he forgot to mention. Most diturbing to me is his use of words such as "sheeple," which is word coined by racist Aryan Nations members. Why he would use a favorite word of anti-Semites, seeing as how Weiner/Savage is a Jew, as well as a word used extensively by Timothy McVey is quite strange. He also uses dismissive language like "leg-crossers," (page 85)which I assume is a substitute for "bitch." And, finally, for all of you steelworkers, taxi drivers, etc., who are his fans: this guy thinks you're dumb. All you need to do is read page 106 to see what he thinks about opinions of non-college graduates.

As one last snipe on this guy, I just love that photo of him (all photos are of him) in the book, under the line "my ship has come in." That is one big yacht he is at the helm of. To his question of where to steer his yacht, how about towards the Gulf and to join the fight? I did ny combat, now you do yours.
