Porter's latest piece of revisionism fails for the same reason most others do: Construct a theory based off of prejudices, find information to validate, ignore information that does not validate, and "creatively interpret" where no material exists.   

Porter is only partially correct in describing the balance of US Soviet power as decidedly on America's side. While the US had significantly more tactical and strategic nuclear weapons than the Soviets, all the way into the late 60's, the Warsaw Pact outnumbered NATO forces in Europe by over 2:1 with a comparable level of capability in its forces. Considering the known ramifications of even a "limited" nuclear exchange, this was not an option except in the most dire of circumstance. US military dominance was anything but "total" in the early days of the cold war and in many ways was at a distinct disadvantage in many military areas, a scenario that played in the Korean War. The books' contention that US involvement in Vietnam was fairly new until Kennedy, the fact is that US confrontations with communism in Asia had a long history including support of the French against communist guerrillas in Vietnam, the Philippines an Burma in the late 40's and early 50's.  

"Perils of Dominance" also bases its "novel" interpretation of postwar Vietnamese history and politics almost exclusively from North Vietnamese sources along with their decidedly apologetic conclusions. These sources are retrospective justifications for the brutal policies of Hanoi, and do not stand up to scrutiny, but Porter eagerly regurgitates their analysis of the political situation in post WWII Vietnam. This simple version of history where Hanoi is an innocent victim of western Imperialism, driven to extremes by unwarranted provocation is not a new one for Porter. For example, Porter repeats the line that the VC were a completely indigenous and independent movement in South Vietnam flies in the face of the fact that the VC were controlled and orchestrated from Hanoi since at least the early 50's. 

This book sounds suspiciously like another widely praised piece of Porter's brand of revisionism on Pol Pot:

"The U.S. and government and news media commentary have gone to great lengths to paint a picture of a country ruled by irrational revolutionaries, without human feelings, determined to reduce their country to barbarism. This study is aimed at setting the record straight on these crucial events."

In short, Porter needs to give up his 30 year fantasy.
