I wanted to give this book a good review, but I cannot recommend it for a beginner. Like many readers, I came to it because I wanted to learn about philosophy and it was the only book on subject that I had heard of. The good news is that after 800 pages, I still wanted to learn more. The bad news is that I still knew very little. 

The first problem is that the book has way too much breadth for a beginner. You do not need to spend 100 pages on Greek philosophy before even coming to Plato. For those that are interested in purchasing the book, I would suggest trimming the list to: Plato, Aristotle, Aquinas, Descartes, Berkeley, Hume, Kant, Locke, Leibniz, Hegel, and then everything from Schopenhauer onwards.

The second problem is that the book is dated. Russell wrote it during World War II and there have been huge developments in philosophy since then. Some examples include the decline of the logicst program and logical positivism, the development of ordinary language philosophy, the later Wittgenstein, and a lot more on pragmatism beyond William James (such as Quine), and a rebirth of Christian philosophy from within the analytic and empirical traditions that Russell advanced (such as the works of Alvin Plantinga and William Lane Craig). It is standard for contemporary introductions to philosophy to cover most of these later developments.

A third problem has been well commented on by many other reviewers, which is Russell's bias and his dismissive treatment of philosophers that he does not agree with. 

Finally, although histories have their place, they are not a good way to actually learn philosophy. Instead they are best used for becoming familiar with the major names and what they did. To actually learn philosophy you need an introductory book that directly focuses on the ideas. 

My advice to someone new to philosophy is to buy 'An Introduction to Philosophical Analysis' by John Hospers. It is a gentle but rigorous textbook that is ideal for the first timer. It has a bias towards atheism, but theists should not pass up such a well-written book. Then follow it up with the even more rigorous and thorough 'Philosophical Foundations for a Christian Worldview' by JP Moreland, even if you aren't a Christian. It has the best explanations of epistemology and metaphysics that I've seen. At that point you may want to get some logic under your belt, so if you are still ambitious, buy 'An Introduction to Logic' by Harry Gensler. The logicola software that accompanies the book is ideal for learning philosophical logic through self-study.
