I originally wrote a review of this book in 1999, titled "This is a racist book disguised as a work of art."  It seems that I didn't explain well enough my objection to Styron's co-opting of the story of a real human being, Nat Turner, whose story was more accurately depicted in the 1831 book, "The Confessions of Nat Turner," by T.R. Gray.  Not only did Styron steal the title of Gray's book, in which Gray recounts his interview with the real Nat Turner, but the incidents Styron invents for the sake of drama reveal his southern-bred racism.  

Unlike his depiction in Styron's book, Nat Turner was married.  Styron's invention of Turner's pivotal and conflicted relationship with a white woman, Margaret Whitehead, is entirely fictional.  So is any self-doubt that Turner did the right thing by leading the revolt.  In Gray's account, Turner did not express regret. There is so much more depth to Turner's life that is either fictionalized beyond recognition or left unexplored in this book.

Do those facts make a difference in a work of fiction?  Yes. The parts Styron has unnecessarily fictionalized are key to the story he invented.  Turner's fictional relationship with Margaret is saturated in the southern myth that black men are obsessed with white women -- lusting for the forbidden fruit, for which they must die.  That Styron crawls into Nat Turner's skin in order to infect him with self-doubt about his mission emasculates Turner and diminishes his cause.  What offends me most is that Nat Turner's life deserves to be explored by a modern author who does not condescend or patronize this African-American hero.  Instead, we have William Styron's version of Turner's life, taken by many readers as fact.

If one prefers racist fiction posing as a legitimate account of a life, then one might enjoy wallowing in this version of "Confessions."  But if one prefers reality, I recommend Gray's book as well as other accounts available about the slave revolt at Southampton, Virginia.  Styron's book does not provide significant insights into Nat Turner, slave revolt or slavery itself.  His book clouds the truth with the same kind of Reconstruction era distortions that spawned the hideous phenomenon of lynching
