I have a few, rather large, reservations regarding the efficacy of this anthology as an aid to learning about intelligence, both of which relate to the fact that this is a "cut and paste" anthology that has sought no further update or revision from the articles' original authors. This is problematic for the following reasons:

1. Many of the articles, while certainly providing valuable information at the theoretical and conceptual levels, are now so dated as to be, at best, obsolescent at the operational and institutional levels. When trying to teach people new to the field of study, the fact that many of the institutional and legal frameworks have altered significantly from when the articles were written (a great many being from the mid-late 1980s) often leads to a great deal of confusion.

2. Many of the articles, while being concept-rich, are written in such an appalling fashion that one cannot help but wonder about the author's intended purpose. A coherent structure is frequently absent and quite often the reader/student is bombarded with too much information in too short a space of time with an absence of context. This is particularly true of the articles that appear in the section that deals with accountability and oversight. An edited volume that allowed for interaction between editor(s) and authors would help remove redundant material and improve overall coherence.

 I have to wonder as to the ultimate point of this anthology. Those that possess sufficient knowledge to put the ideas into the correct context to address today's environment will gain little in the way of new information. Those who are new to the field will require extensive hand-holding to draw out the lessons. As a teaching aid, the above-mentioned inconsistencies that are endemic to the text inevitably mean that a disproportionate amount of time resolving confusion in the mind of the student, rather than discussing the ideas themselves and are thus an unwelcome distraction. I would welcome an anthology that made better use of the research that has been made in more recent years to establish these broad theoretical concepts, rather than one that consists of articles that are based upon on the institutions and context of the Cold War
