Shawn reveals (indirectly) that he is a disloyal Catholic. Now before you rate this review as unhelpful I'll explain why that is relevant: It shows he is a hypocrite and that his book is therefore hypocritical. Now although a hypocrite can get things right, when it comes to morality they usually get things wrong, which Shawn certainly did do in his teachings in this book. For example:

He promotes (and worships) democracy and "liberty" over God. I'm sure some of you Catholics will be like "what? He advocates the Bible in school and school prayer" but that doesn't mean he is advocating it for the right reasons, just as the Pharisees didn't advocate religion and the Old Testament for, ultimately, the right reasons. Now perhaps some of you will think, "Well who cares as long as he is advocating what is right, who cares about his motives." Well he says what his motives are and they go contrary to the Bible, so in the end he is promoting something which is just as self-defeating as liberalism, etc.. He reveals in his book that his motives are to maintain the (publically known) Republican agenda (plus getting the bible and prayer in public schools, etc.), promoting and upholding democracy throughout the world, and indirectly promotes the whitewashed historical teachings and books in public schools (although I'm sure he wouldn't if he really knew more accurately the history of the U.S.)

So, what's wrong with promoting liberty, democracy, and the white wash in schools? Obviously no one wants white wash and most American's know the usual history text books in school are something the inquisitions might have had success using, so I'll move on to liberty and democracy. Liberty in Shawn's eyes INCLUDES the right to promote Catholocism and not just the  traditional religions. For us who are saved and many atheists know that the Catholic religion is a cult, and promoting it is treason (among other things) in our eyes. Now for democracy. The U.S. has a rigged democracy, and it is really an Aristocratic Democracy, everyone knows that, even Shawn, it just slips his mind because he lets himself get majorly distracted.

As an example of Shawn's ignorance of the more complicated parts of U.S. history, and his gullibility, he says in his book that F.D.R. was a democratic leader. Yet many teens in high school know that isn't true having heard his "New Deal". Even wiki acknowledges that that was communistic. He also perpetuates the myth that Islamic terrorists were responsible for twin tower DEMOLITION. Anyone with the net and who knows to double check facts, and who knows the evil side of America's history knows what I mean by "demolition" in reference to 9/11.

He also perpetuates this illogical goal: unity (under democracy) for the sake of it (like just supporting Bush, Jr. regardless of what he says). He doesn't say it but implies it. Unity for the sake of allowing Bush Jr. and the troops in Iraq to have a nice day is stupidity.

And check out this self-centered attitude: "some sick cell of terrorists just attacked my world." Well what happened to the people they attacked, their world, the one that ended that day?

He also picks on Clinton for reasons you can probably guess, as if he was the ONLY bad president. This book is childish, and I don't mean that in a mean way, I mean it's as if it were written by an angry, poorly educated, arrogant preteen who had a good editor.

One thing he does imply, and rightly so, is that the "Koran" is evil. But, big surprise, didn't come out and say that outright, I WONDER WHY?! So much for courage
