P.J. O'Rourke, a "fellow" at the Washington-based Cato Institute, sets out to answer the question "why do some places prosper and thrive while others just suck?" The problem with that premise is that... well the premise sucks. 
Being based on yardsticks like GDP, GNP, GNR (and potentially the NFL and NHL) the book is fashioned in terms used by contemporary and illegitimate, notions which do not reflect progress, happiness or well-being and instead focus on how much companies can sell you stuff. 

Economics is discussed as a passing topic as relates to O'Rourke's observations, but the bulk of the book is a human essay combined with the author's travelogue of places like Moscow, Hong Kong, Tanzania, Albania, Cuba and more. Of course, humour being the front man, the writer duly agrees upfront that the numbers are crap, the facts are a joke, Republicans need a plug or two (as do 'non-partisan' [snort] think-tanks), but the book is hit and miss both philosophically and stylistically. The book asks good questions, but P.J. is not an awfully good writer. The passages veer between funny and plain old boring or sophisticated and akin to someone hollering at a frat part. The naked observations of far-flung places are, perhaps, the best part of the book given the absurdity of the situation. Fathoming and shaping reality in order to lasso intellectual discourse can only go so far however (CNN is an alternate universe). 

O'Rourke might like to call Sweden socialist as a put-down, which is all good given that Scandinavian country's untouchable credentials, but last some one checked workers did not own the means of production there. Cuba might have throngs of people standing around doing nothing - isn't that the forte of think-tanks? - yet it would be fun to see how the country would do without American embargoes and overt aggression. A "laissez-faire" attitude towards commerce might have propelled a strategically-located rock called Hong Kong into riches (there is that subjective term, again), but how does the author explain the centrally planned and executed economies of Korea, China, Malaysia, Singapore or Dubai which have recently outpaced beacons of capitalism like America and Haiti? To criticize the use of Mandarin by Chinese officials in Hong Kong makes sense until, only a second later, one notices that the use of English is even more absurd and foreign there. 

Stick with the one about the skeleton in the bar next time, P.J
