Ever since popularized accounts of modern physics started to become popular in the 80's there have become a plethora of books that present modern ideas in physics with the 'golly gee whiz' factor. This is both good and bad.

Works like 'The Cosmic Landscape' have both a positive and negative side. On the one hand they keep the general public interested and informed about advancement in science. This interest may spark a young reader to pursue a career in science or technology. On the other hand they can give the general public a false idea of what science is and what it is not.

Unfortunately the majority of the information presented in this work and other popular acccounts of modern physics are simply presentations of established physical theory that are then morphed into wild metaphysical speculation. What the authors always leave out is that it appears theoretical physics seems to be in a state of stagnation lacking any communal identity. When this happens researchers usually start forming into camps. String Theory is one of those camps. 

The fact is nearly a century after its inception physicists have yet to even aggree on a proper interpretation of Quantum Mechanics yet allone come to a concensus on the valdity of the current Standard Model vs String Theory. When physicists start speculating on the interpretations they throw Ocaam's Razor to the wind and propose 'far out' and unneeded ideas like paralell universes and the like. This is fine if one remembers that such speculations cannot be cooberated by existing observation and physical evidence.

For some unknown reason many in the theoretical community seem to be obsessed with various forms of the many-world interpretation. It seems to be the prevailing theme today in the popular accounts on the bookshelf. The public loves it because it has the obvious appeal but it can lead the public to think of science as they would an episode of Star Trek- an other-worldy realm of fantasy. Perhaps a footnote at the beginning - * What follows is only speculation. 

It is good to ask questions and imagination is key to discovery but one should also remember that speculations about such things is simply that-speculation and imagination.

Nobody currently has answers to many of the questions posed by Modern physics and many speculate if it is even possible to physically verify the existence of sructures that are a product of some of the curent theories. Until that evidence exists String Theory and the like are in a state of Limbo. Some in the Popper camp even question whether String Theory is even a theory as it currently cannot be falsified. The Current Standard Model and/or String theory cannot even demonstrate how electrons and protons interact to form a bound state and create atomic structure let allone show how a 'paralell universe' would form.

Furthermore when you start venturing into concepts like the anthropic principle, intelligent design etc you are diverging from science and entering the world of currently unverifiable conjecture.

From a philosophical perspective it seems as if the author is attempting to force the solution. Being an agnostic I tend to stear clear of the design debate but it appears from the tone that Susskin rejects the idea of design on philosophical grounds. He then proceeds to assume since design is not a property of the universe then the parameters and theory must not include design as a possibility. He then proceeds to construct a framework where this is the case and in so doing forces the theory to fit the ontological assumption that the structure is not produced by design. This is where he ventures away from science and into metaphysical speculation. He then assumes the solution is true and attempts to work the problem in reverse to show how the objectons are invalid. In so doing he is making further assumptions to validate his first assumptions and so on. 

In a nutshell the author implies that the result of the mathematics in his theory implies an infinite array of universes that are being created as a result of inflation. Each world has it's own set of laws and physical paramters. Therefore it is only probable that at least one of these worlds would have a universe that allows the formation of all structures needed to support life. Therefore the answer to the question of why we are here is reduced to 'we are here because the law of averages dictates so'. This still begs the question, however as if one were a theist or deist one could speculate this overall scheme was the grand design of the designer. So this theory in itself does not rule out the possibiltiy of design. In the end nothing is really answered.

As long as man exists he could always conjecture on philosophical grounds that the universe is or is not a product of design regardless of the physical theory used to explain the structures of which the world is composed. It is a topic best left to philosophers. Science is not concerned with such questions. Science only is concerned with phenomenon that are ultimately available to the senses either directly or indirectly. In the realm of scientific inquiry if it cannot be measured it cannot be known.

The whole of the argument rests on the validity of String Theory as an accurate model of physical reality. As it stands now, however there is not even observed physical evidence that cooberates 'string theory' so it is actually quite premature to even state it as a 'fact' as one would typically use this term in science. All we can currently surmise is that string theory is not inconsisent with current observations. Then again neither was Ptolemy's theory of epicycles and defferents. What the 'real' picture entails is still open to debate and is waiting further results of future observation and experiment. Most of the speculations and theories held in this work are currently not verifiable by observations. Therefore they still fall into the arena of speculative hypothesis.

Theoretical physicists are just like anyone else. They age and ask themselves the same questions everyone else does-what is the meaning of it all? Why is there something rather than nothing? What am I? They then attempt to speculate and conjecture based on their own world views and paradigms. The answers often are vague ontological theories about the nature of reality that appear in books like 'The Cosmic Landscape'.

The book is well written and concise but offers nothing new. There are numerous popular accounts of modern physics and unfortunately they are all becoming repetitive, old, and increasingly more like diversions into metaphysics. 'Cosmic Landacape' is no exception. A lot of concepts are presented as factual when in fact they are still relegated to hypothesis.

As with other books in this class a very gifted author and scientist is giving his/her speculation on how the universe might be..not how it neccesarily is. I think many lay readers do not view works such as this in this regards and believe what they are reading is scientificaly factual.

