I have been reading Jodi Picoult's books since I first came across The Pact at the library.  And from there I glommed most of her books reading back to her previous titles such as Songs of the Humpback Whale and then her books, Keeping Faith, Salem Falls, Perfect Match and Plain Truth.  Unfortunately in recent years I haven't been able to get into some of her titles, specifically Vanishing Acts and My Sister's Keeper.  The latter title was just too sad for me to finish.  It was therefore with some trepidation that I picked up the CD of The Tenth Circle while at the library. Because I was told that there was a parallel story told in comice book form, I was concerned that I might be missing something although other readers said I wouldn't be missing much.  But at this point I must add that while the reader did a fine job and I was initially intrigued with the plot and characters, this book dissolved into a listening experience of a book which went off into too many directions to be a good reading experience for me.  I won't review the details of the plot or characters since so many others have done a fine job of this, rather offer, instead my  views just as I finished this title.

I just finished listening to The Tenth Circle and found it was such a grim book.  Not that Jodi Picoult's other books were rollicking fun but this one reminded me of a line from one of her books that said, "There ought to be a moratorium on grief."  Unbelievable the imagination some writers have.  Maybe that's why they're writers and I'm not.  But there were some unanswered questions, coincidence, sheer improbability and then she wrapped up the ending a bit too quickly.  And I might add a bit too happily or hopefully from all that happened for me to consider this a book I enjoyed.  But I do have to add that there was some wonderful writing about what it means to be a parent but I just found it overall very disappointing. I do hope I'm not spoiling this for anybody with such a negative review but I used to love this author's books and wonder if I'll continue to read her which makes me sad.
