A voracious reader, I seldom write reviews because one) time is too precious; two) sheer laziness; and three) ratings on reviews have more to do with whether you liked the book someone else liked, or did not like the book someone else did not like.  In short, it is not what you write but whether the reader agrees with your selection of "stars."

In the case of "Nothing But Victory," I had to get up off my lazy but and say something about my disappointment with this book.  I have read two of Woodworth's other titles.  "Jefferson Davis and His Generals" would rank among my favourite ACW titles, and it is based on Woodworth's thesis work at Rice University.  "Six Armies in Tennessee" is a fairly good piece of work, given the limitations of the series in which it belongs (which seems to put a limitation upon endnotes and supporting citations).

In "Nothing But Victory," Woodworth has written something that stands less as history, with all its warts and blemishes, and rather comes across as a piece of propaganda for Grant and the Army of the Tennessee.  In Woodworth's hands, Grant becomes the Union hero, par excellence, and the Army of the Tennessee, his chosen instrument with which to smite the Rebels and put done secession.  Woodworth frequently overstates his case, minimizes the faults of Grant and the AOT, and just plain out ignores contrary views that might smudge the image of either in this execrable piece of pseudo-history.

In order to support my opinion, I turn to Woodworth's use of supporting evidence, or the lack thereof.  In "Jefferson Davis and His Generals," Woodworth has an endnote section which runs around sixty pages for some three hundred odd pages of text.  In "Nothing But Victory," a six hundred page tome, Woodworth's endnotes cover some eighty pages (and the font of the two books is of different sizes, the Davis title being the smaller).  In his endnotes, Woodworth will support his views sometimes on the strength of one source.  And guess which source that might be: Grant's "Memoirs."

Let us take a look at the Battle of Shiloh and the question of the role of Don Carlos Buell and the Army of the Ohio: did it save the day for Grant?  On page 199, Woodworth writes that "Grant and Sherman, however, were as completely surprised as it was possible for generals to be.  They had had, in Grant's words the day before the battle, `scarely the faintest idead of an attack (general one) being made upon us."

In chapters nine and ten, the coverage of the Army of the Ohio is minimized to a few comments, and its overall role in the battle is never addressed, leaving the unstated conclusion that the Army of the Tennessee won the battle by its own efforts.  Granted, the book's primary focus is on the AOT, but this emphasis should not get in the way of a more accurate and balanced approach.

During the first day's fighting, a number of stragglers from the AOT went to the base of the bluffs at Pittsburgh's Landing.  This number can only be estimated.  Grant, in his "Memoirs," put the number at four or five thousand.  Woodworth then writes on page 184, "Later, Buell and others not particularly well disposed toward Grant would brandy about figures as large as 10,000 or even 20,000.  This number is patently absurd, but the former is probably exaggerated as well.  Eyewitnesses who had extensive opportunity to observe the crowd on the bank estimated it as closer to 5,000."  Other than an endnote for Grant's estimation from his "Memoirs," written many years after the fact, Woodworth cites no other source.  

In the same paragraph, he concludes by writing, "Several pointed out the fact that the area was not very large and would not have held more than that."  Here, he does have an endnote, and on page 666, we see that "several sources" has become two.  Why exaggerate and describe two as "several"?   

The "problem" is not that Woodworth is allowed to hold this views; he is.  The problem is that Woodworth ignores or lightly brushes over views to the contrary, while weakly supporting his own arguments.  

For a different view on the role of Buell and the Army of Ohio at Shiloh, one can read Engel's biography of Buell, where pages 235-239 address the question, and at least is willing to examine different views with more care.  With Woodworth, even Sherman is called "the fool" (p. 157) for his lack of preparation at Shiloh, but Grant is the Teflon general, above criticism, along with his army (minus the 4,000-20,000-take your pick-- stragglers).  

Further evidence of a slanted approach can be found in chapters twelve and thirteen, which deal with the battles of Iuka and Corinth respectively.  One of the sources upon whom Woodworth depends is Peter Cozzens' "The Darkest Days of the War," a book in which neither of the primary Union commanders, Grant or Rosecrans, come off in a favourable light in Cozzens' view (Cozzens has own problems with the historical facts getting in the way of his writing, but that is a review for another time).  Woodworth conveniently uses the sections criticizing Rosecrans, while ignoring those sections that question Grant's management, or mismanagement, of these battles.  Although Grant's "Memoirs" pepper the endnotes, I do not believe that any of William S. Rosecrans' writings, or those of his biographer, William Lamers, make an appearance to give a differing light on Iuka and Corinth.

More could be cited in support of my view, but life is getting in the way.  In the end, it is all a shame, really, because it is not necessary for Woodworth, or anyone else, to put Grant on a mantle of hero-worship.  Grant was perhaps the greatest Union general of the Civil War (who is going to compete with him other than maybe Sherman?).  What makes Grant great is not that he made mistakes, but that he learned from his errors.  Grant seemed more open about admitting such mistakes during the war, but by the time of the writing of his "Memoirs," his memory appeared to be more selective (once again, like with the comment on Cozzens, this opinion is stated but not supported, and as such, must be taken with the proverbial grain of salt).

Woodworth does not serve the purpose of honouring the Army of the Tennessee, or its greatest commander, Grant, by ignoring historical facts that would provide both a more accurate and more balanced view.  As a history teacher, Woodworth knows better.  I cannot understand why either his conscience, or his editor, allowed this shoddy piece of work to be published.  Grant and the AOT stand great in the history, despite Woodworth's disservice to their memories.

I paid about $1.50 for my copy, plus postage.  Already, Woodworth's book has found its worthy place in the discount section of mediocre writing.  I can only hope that in his next book, he will demonstrate the skill that was apparent in his earlier works.
