First I am no believer in the good intentions of our political or social elite.  I also don't think the powerful get together and conspire to dominate the world for much other than their own personal gain, be that additional wealth or the seeking of more personal power or influence.  And thus organizations like the Council on Foreign Relations are born so that the wealthy and powerful can meet with other like minded people and expand their influence and push their ideas onto others. This argument I can accept.  However, the author has picked the CFR as some grand body that rules American policy and has done so for years  with the evil intent of creating a one-world government.  If you were to believe everything in this book you would assume that all American foreign policy, all Presidents and most parts of American government have been ruled by this organization since it's founding in 1921.  
The arguments do not ring true, the author has concluded that membership in this organization has somehow made members brain washed zombies of some grand master plan for one-world government.  However the author does not really explain why the membership would have such slavish devotion to this principle nor does he really explain why he feels that such a plan is so evil that is must be opposed.  Until of course the last two pages of the book when the author finally writes;
" 	In essence, history is the story of conflict.  Those who view history as a series of accidents, it is interesting to note, also usually believe that the universe itself began as an accident and that man resulted from the random molecular collisions....
	 There are, however, those of us who accept the causality of God. Many centuries ago, the Hebrew Old Testament and the Christian New Testament prophesied that ultimately a beautiful kingdom will prevail.... But they also warned of an evil, one-world government.....
	Many notables of the American Establishment have given themselves over to one side in this conflict, and it is not the side the ancient scriptures recommended.  Whether or not they are conspirators, whether they are conscious or not of the ultimate consequences of their actions, their powerful influence has helped move the world towards apocalyptic events."

And thus after 220 pages we see that there is no need to argue why the CFR is evil and what it is up to, this is all self evident by reading the Bible.  Which then begs the question why buy and then read this book when the argument has already been made in the Bible.  
It would have been nice if the author had started with this paragraph rather than waiting to the last page, it may have made his arguments more coherent.  At least I would know that this was not to be a well argued scholarly work but an end of the world rant that assumes you have bought into "The End is Near" world view.  If you are not of this mind set then this book shows you that people like to get together when they think alike and form clubs that tend to push their ideas and promote their own members.  But then I went to college and experienced fraternities so I get the general idea already.  Overall this book was a waste of time, true believers will see it as more of the same evidence and skeptics will not be swayed by the weak arguments and faulty reasoning.
