I am a big Popper fan, but this book is out-of-date, although it contains valuable information.

Popper's arguments for indeterminism are based on the body-mind distinction: 'physicalism (or the philosophy of the identity of mind and body) is absurd.'
G. Edelman explains clearly in his brilliant book 'Bright Air, Brilliant Fire' that mind is a matter of matter. Consciousness is an emerging characteristic of life after a long evolution.
Popper's system of 3 Worlds is also flawed (World 1: physical world - brain physiology; World 2: subjective thought - human consciousness; World 3: objective thought - theories), because World 1 and 2 are the same.

His arguments against philosophical and scientific determinism are powerful, but scientifically speaking Laplace's demon is a joke. As Steven Hawking explains in John Boslough's 'Steven Hawking's Universe': 'Even if we do achieve a complete unified theory, we shall not be able to make detailed predictions in any but the simplest situations.'
Predictions will be limited to the extreme and determinism will be non-existant in brain physiology (Mozart's G minor symphony could not have been predicted). Indeterminism will be all the more true in the social sciences (historicism).
Indeterminism is a cardinal characteristic of matter: all singular events in this world are unique, free.

It is very strange that some of the brightest scientific minds (Einstein, Schroedinger) were staunch defenders of determinism (see Popper's discussions with Einstein on p. 90-92).
The fact that Einstein changed his mind at the end of his life is not confirmed in M. Jammer's book 'Einstein and Religion'.

On the other hand, Popper's remark on the arrow of time is to-the-point: 'As to the arrow of time, it is in my opinion a mistake to make the second law of thermodynamics responsible for its direction. Even a non-thermodynamic process, such as the propagation of a wave from a centre, is in fact irreversible.'

Very important is note 3 on p. 43. J. von Neumann, H.H. Goldstine: 'a mathematical formulation necessarily represents only a (more or less explicit) theory of some phase (or aspect) of reality, not reality itself.'

I recommend this book only for Popper fans
