	The Burden of Bad Ideas is an exploration of the shortcomings of urban public policy, examining issues such as welfare, teachers' education, foster care, homelessness, and multicultural curriculum in our nation's school system. The author investigates the ideology of the "nation's elite orthodoxy" and its impact on modern American society. 

	Heather Mac Donald holds a John M. Olin fellowship at the Manhattan Institute. She works as a contributing editor for the City Journal, covering issues such as education, homelessness, racial profiling, and the New York court system. Mac Donald earned a J.D. from Stanford University Law School and is a non-practicing lawyer.

	The author's methodology stems largely from her personal experiences in the field of journalism. Mac Donald visited teachers' education classes, homeless shelters, and sat in on public hearings. The author conducted extensive interviewing with people on both the policy-maker side and the recipient side of issues, claiming, "If you want to know how well social policies are working, I learned, ask the poor - when their advocates aren't around."  While the interviewing certainly creates an entertaining read, a lack of concrete sources or citations to support her "facts" has a negative impact upon the integrity of the author's work. 

	Mac Donald's book is arranged into twelve chapters. Each chapter covers a different political issue. In "An F for Hip-Hop 101," she examines a course offered at a Brooklyn public high school, studying what she terms "ghetto culture," including graffiti, deejaying, emceeing, and breakdancing. "Why Johnny's Teacher Can't Teach" is a scathing criticism of education courses on the college level, lambasting the teachers' education system as supporting "Anything But Knowledge."  In her chapter entitled "Law School Humbug," the author discusses how the presence of racial and feminist theory harms serious scholarship in the college classroom. The book develops into a fairly predictable pattern, with Mac Donald's vitriol against the "elites" and liberals ever-present, the chapters merely providing different flavors of her disgust and frustration.

	The author, in her introduction, begins with admirable questions: Why aren't our children learning basic skills in public schools? Why aren't programs designed to help the poor really helping them? What will happen to our society if we continue to reject the notion of personal responsibility? Why is our media untruthful and how does this shape public opinion? The answer to all of these questions is more or less a blanket response: Liberal, elitist ideology has caused the United States moral and intellectual bankruptcy. Mac Donald calls for a return to the traditional Western models of thought and education that she feels laid the foundation for the greatness of the United States.

	The problem inherent to this book is a touchy one. Mac Donald approaches many of the issues as an outsider, and it shows. In "Law School Humbug," she criticizes women of color for writing about the politicization of their hair. She claims this is part of a "new genre of legal scholarship - first-person narrative." While the author's point that this sort of narrative deviates from the traditional conventions may hold merit, she obfuscates her own point with a dismissive comment, "Not since the Age of Aquarius has hair possessed such political significance." Mac Donald's flippancy only reinforces the impetus for these sorts of narrative, that those belonging to the majority have discounted, devalued, and ignored the minority experience. 

	The Burden of Bad Ideas without a doubt exposes many of the flaws in the upper-class liberal ideology. Mac Donald captures the patronization of the liberals to the have-nots, and notes the many occasions where liberal guilt creates ridiculous loopholes in the public assistance system that may be exploited. She paints a vivid picture of the tendency within liberal academia to exoticize other cultures, placing them upon pedestals so narrow they hold no room for honest critique. In the end, the author's efforts fall short. Mac Donald's writing becomes merely one side in a shouting match that takes place between two sides of people who have very little in common with the folk whose fates they argue, with one side wanting to indulgently pat the heads of the underprivileged and coo over their artistic and cultural achievements, while the other side sneers at the relevance. 

	Mac Donald's book provides raises many interesting questions and can be used to provoke thoughtful discussion in a classroom setting, or as a springboard for more in-depth research.  Unfortunately, the author's resort to name-calling and the lack of support and citation for her research undermines her credibility. The Burden of Bad Ideas ultimately succeeds in startling its audience, rather than accomplishing any serious enlightenment
