This book by Arza Evans contains too many mistakes and ignores a heck of a lot of contemporary Mormon scholarship that blows his arguments out of the water.

For example, in the case of the Arabian geography of the Book of Mormon, Evans charges that no continually flowing river in Arabia exits (1 Nephi 2:5-8). Furthermore, he charges that Bountiful could not possibly exist too (1 Nephi 17:5). However, even before the book was first published, these arguments were proven void.

In 1994, for example, Warren and Michaela Aston published the book, "In the footsteps of Lehi," revealing that plausible candidates for both Nahom (1 Nephi 16:34) and Bountiful exists in the Arabian Peninsula. Furthermore, only a few years later, George Potter discovered a continaully flowing river in Arabia, right where the Book of Mormon states it is. This was one of the first topics discussed in the 2003 book he co-authored with Richard Wellington, entitled, "Lehi in the Wilderness."

Now, the questions of Evans can be turned on their back - 

How did Joseph Smith know so much about Arabia? How did he know of the presence of a continually flowing river south-south-east of Jerusalem in Arabia, when, for decades, critics have derided such (and, in their ignorance, continue to do) as an impossibility (see 1 Nephi 2:5-8)? How did he know of a burial site, *NHM* in the same direction, corresponding to "Nahom" where Ishamel was buried in 1 Nephi 16:34? Furthermore, on this point, lime altars have been found in this region, attesting to the historicity of the name and burial site pre-dating the Book of Mormon volume, serving as the first archaeological evidences attesting Book of Mormon antiquity. In addition, how could Smith have known of a lush garden spot east of Nahom, and describe all its physical and material cultural characteristics, when, again, critics have derided Bountiful in Arabia as another impossibility?

I am only scaping the surface, but this should be suffice to show that this book is far from a convincing critique of the Book of Mormon
