Parker Palmer has a fan club.  I say this in a positive sense, because people I respect speak very favorably about Palmer and his writings.  My entire world view of him consists of these comments and the contents of this book, Let Your Life Speak.

I feel I have some points of common reference to help me understand the text and its message: UC Berkeley, service, the Society of Friends, clearness committees, teaching, and higher education.

It's just that Palmer weaves this tapestry into a pattern that speaks to him, and not to me.  And sometimes I'm simply not sure what he IS weaving (or what language he is speaking): "The knowledge I am talking about is not intellectual and analytical but integrative and of the heart, and the choices that lead to wholeness are not pragmatic and calculated, intended to achieve some goal, but simply and profoundly expressive of personal truth" (p. 60).

What does this mean?  The book is full of these hybrid poetry/narrative comments.

And Palmer seems to not like himself, suggesting pain as an honorable and effective method for discovering one's true self:

"That concept of vocation is rooted in a deep distrust of selfhood, in the belief that the sinful self will always be "selfish" unless corrected by external forces of virtue... Today I understand vocation quite differently -- not as a goal to be achieved but as a gift to be received" (p. 10).

"But before we come to that center, full of light, we must travel in the dark" (p. 18).

"The God I know does not ask us to conform to some abstract norm for the ideal self.  God asks us only to honor our created nature, which means our limits as well as potentials.  When we fail to do so, reality happens -- God happens -- and way closes behind us" (p. 50).

"When I was finally able to turn around and ask, 'What do you want?' the answer was clear: I want you to embrace this descent into hell as a journey toward selfhood -- and a journey toward God" (p. 69).

"Midway in my life's journey, "way closed" again, this time with a ferocity that felt fatal: I found myself in the dark woods called clinical depression, a total eclipse of light and hope.  But after I emerged from my sojourn in the dark and had given myself several years to absorb its meaning, I saw how pivotal that passage had been on my pilgrimage toward selfhood and vocation" (p. 56-7).

"If we, as leaders, are to cast less shadow and more light, we need to ride certain monsters all the way down, explore the shadows they create, and experience the transformation that can come as we 'get into' our spiritual lives" (p. 85).


Parker Palmer discusses his life.  In no way is this book a guide to "let your life speak."  It is his path, a path that, frankly, I hope most of humanity can avoid.  I am glad for Palmer that he found his way, and his vocation.  It is good, and appropriate, that he has his heros.  But there are many paths, and many avoid clinical depression.  Many involve families.  Many separate their vocation from their life.

And yet there is his reputation!  What have I missed in this little book
