Just completed a hiking trip to California, September 2004. I am a weekend hiker from Ohio. I was looking for a guide for the best hikes to take - FOR SIGHTSEEING. I thought that this book would lead me to the most scenic hikes in the Redwood area of Northern California. BIG MISTAKE. The point of my review is this: you CANNOT Trust this book to get you to the Best Hikes.

We did 5 hikes recommended in this Book. Two Costal Hikes, which were nice. THe book was helpful, and the rating Equitable.

We then did 3 hikes in Redwood Country. Two of his recommendations we a total bust, and a waste of TIME.

While the book has impressive reviews from newspapers and other sources, I offer my real world examples. It is my great disappointment in this book that has lead me to warn potential buyers. Not based on how it is written, but on my actual experience, IN THE FIELD, of going out, using the author's reccomendations, and hiking some trails.

1. Redwood Hike - Toumey Grove Trail Hike, rated a 9, at Richardson Grove State Park. What a joke. Nothing special about the hike. The Redwood Grove that you reach is very smallish, and not all that spectacular. Rest of the hike was nothing special either.

2. Redwood Hike - Rathert Grove Hike at Grizzly Creek State Park, rated a 10. Same story as above hike. We did speak with the camp host family, who directed us to the Cheatham Redwood Grove, several miles away, which was truly magical. This is where they filmed Star Wars, "Return of the Jedi." Not a lengthy hike, but this Grove of old Redwoods was truly magical, and the best Grove that we saw, espically after having just wasted TWO HIKES on Tom Stienstra's suggestions.

3. Redwood Hike - Prairie Creek State Park. While book lists one hike here, Fern Canyon, rated a 10, which we did - it was OK, he doesn't even mention the most magical, lengthy hike THERE. We did the James Irvine Trail, which was THE BEST REDWOOD HIKE that we did on our whole trip. We hiked the Irvine Trial to the Clintonia to Miner's Ridge, which brought us back to the Visitor's Center. About 4.6 miles of hiking through old growth, Costal Redwoods. This is another hike we would not have done, without the recommendation of the local camp host family.

4. Coastal Hikes - we did two mentioned in this Book. They were good. We did the Tomales Point Trail, at Point Reyes National Seashore - very nice, and the Bodega Head Loop, also very nice.

We began our trip in San Francisco, heading north, along the coast. We started off with a couple of coastal hikes that were nice. Once we got further north, to Redwood country, the hikes recommended were a complete waste. We had limited time, energy, and the hikes highly rated in this book were a complete disappointment. This became apparent when locals directed us to other, BETTER hikes in the area.

While this book is a decent resource for some basic trail information, you had better look to other books and resources to prepare for hiking in Northern California. When you only have a limited time in this part of California, you simply cannot afford the luxury of wasting time on crappy recommendations for hikes.

Does the book cover the whole state of California? Yes. Some good information? Yes. But after my experience with this book, I would NEVER recommend this book to any hiker, UNLESS it was the second or third source that they were going to use. Otherwise, you too may run the risk of hiking on "so-so trails," while missing some stunning beauty in the same area. That was certainly my experience with this book. What a shame
