I love Victor Hugo's writting ability. No one can write confrontational scenes better than him. I believe his book Les Miserables is the best fictional book that has ever been written, bar none. I also love the Hunchback of Notre Dame, to me it's one of the top five to ten books that I have ever read. 

Anyone who has read any of his books knows that the climaxes of his books are extraordinary.... no one comes close. No one can write confrontational scenes better than him. They also know that his writting is more beautiful than just about any other author who has ever lived. 

People who have read Victor Hugo's books also know that he likes to go off on tangents that get away from the story for numerous pages. For instance, in Les Miserables he goes on for countless pages describing the convent and the sewer system. These tangents that he loves to go on are extremly unnecesary and take away from the story in his books but you deal with them because the story is worth it.

The Toilers of the Sea is also a great story but the book is so marred with these tangets and over explanation of EVERYTHING that it just totally bogs the book down. It's a good story but not good enough to fight through everything. 

The first half of the book is very difficult to get through, the first fifty or so pages is just an explanation of the surrounding islands... the next 150 pages or so are overkill explanations of the plot and seeting it up. I honestly don't believe half of the people who start this book will make it to page 200 unless they are forced to for a school project etc. 

The next 230 pages are a lot more interesting but Victor Hugo's over explaining every detail and his constantly annoying habbit of saying the same thing ten different ways really makes this book difficult and rather boring.

Gillete, the main character is really a awesome character (he reminds me of Jean ValJean in Les Miserables)and there really is a good story here about him, Deruchette, Senior Clubin and Miss Leherity (I'm probably buthering the spellings.... sorry) but I honestly think very few people will make it through the book. If Victor would have had an editor who could have helped clean this up and shorten it I think it would have been a lot better.

P.S. I also hated the ending.... what Gillete did to himself at the end of the book just totally annoyed me
