I picked up the Dutch translation of Todd's recent book for 5.60 Euros at the discount bookstore "de Slegte" (the Bad One), and after reading it on a sunny Jamaican beach I feel that it belongs in the dump store indeed. It is a badly informed book, which summarises French, and general European leftist prejudices about the United States. 
First the controversial title: "After the Empire: The Breakdown of the American Order". Are the USA really an Empire comparable with the Roman, Macedonian, Mongolian, British, French, Turkish, Soviet and other empires, where one people completely dominates and exploits a number of smaller ones, mostly their neighbours? I don't think so. 
Certainly, the US has quite a few imperious characteristics : it dominates the world economy, it has a quasi monopoly on new technologies, American-English is the common language of the civilised world, and it is by far the strongest military power. But this is not a result of a history of persistent conquest. It is the result of America's fundamental strength which has no equal in this world nor in history : the American love of freedom, and the consequential rewarding of the entrepreneurial spirit which exists also in Europe and some other regions but to a far weaker degree. 

Todd's analyses are based largely on demographic evolutions and some vague productivity statistics. Low birthrates are no serious indicator for economic or political decline. They are just an indicator of women's willingness to have children. If a family has to live in a cramped appartment, if the mother needs to work outdoors to pay the rent and has ready access to birth control means or abortions such as in Russia, it is realistic to assume that she would want few children or none at all. Sweden has a higher birthrate than France or Germany because of numerous incentives for parents such as parental leave without loss of pay. South-America has a very high birthrate mainly with the poor but no political scientist claims that it will dominate the world in any way. China has a one-child policy but also a booming economy. Where is the link with the future fall of an Empire ? In rich countries, modern hedonism is also an important reason for women not to have children : having fun is the only reason for life. 

Todd completely ignores (political scientist as he is) the dominating importance of technology in the modern world, and I daresay, also in ancient history. A better historical book on this subject is "Germs, Guns and Steel" by Jared Diamond. World history is much less driven by philosophy and religion as Todd seems to think but by practical things like steel knives and swords against stone axes, gunpowder and canonballs against hordes of naked savages, smallpox against vulnerable Indians, and GPS guided bomber planes against Iraqi foot soldiers. 

I do not understand Todd's argument that America's productivity is declining. Probably the US produces less textiles, shoes, steel and potatoes than say China, but microprocessors, laptop computers, electronic instruments, software, airplanes are mostly produced in the States. US unemployment is lower than anywhere in Europe. The reason that America imports low-tech goods is simply because there cheaper for the customer and the shopkeepers earn a better profit on them than from local manufacturers. In all statistics I ever saw US productivity was among the highest in the world. 

The US are not interested in occupying countries like Iraq, Vietnam, Korea. Their interest lies in a pacified world, which does not threaten their main business of making money and hopefully contributes to it like "conquered" Germany and Japan, pacified Europe and Russia, and developing economic power China. 
Americans are no crusaders. They are not interested in converting Muslims to Christianity. But they truly believe that democratic institutions are essential to guarantee their Freedom and the World's. 

Comparing America to Athens instead of Rome is more appropriate, albeit that Athens never militarily dominated its mediterranean world as Rome did, and America does today. Like Athens , America dominates the world thanks to its democratic values, science and technology. Eventually Athens was defeated by Sparta. The US could have been defeated militarily by a united communist world. The debacle in Vietnam seemed for some shortsighted analysts and communist ideologues to be the beginning of the end of capitalism and the downfall of America, followed by worldwide communist rule. It did not happen. First because of MAD : Mutually Assured Destruction by the American and Soviet nuclear arsenals. And then in the long run by the collapse of communism, because it was unable to compete technologically, economically, culturally and ideologically with the free democracies under loose America leadership. Recent history has simply proven that political democracy, a free market economy and consequentially capitalism, are superior in almost all aspects to communism and a planned economy. China is in a transition phase from communism to full democracy. It's economy is gradually more deregulated leaving room for private initiative and capital growth but not (yet) political democracy. 

Will the United States' New World Order collapse like the Soviet communist bloc ? 
I don't think so. 
The European and Asian countries liberated  or "conquered" by the US have grown rich and free, and I would say "happy" whatever that means. The countries occupied by the Soviet Union became unfree, poor and definitely unhappy under iron Soviet rule. They voted "with their feet", emigrated in large numbers whenever they could. Unhappy people will cause unstable governments. 
The Roman Empire lasted almost a thousand years in the West, starting from Rome's humble beginnings, until the end in 453 AD. It lasted almost a thousand more years in Constantinople, until it's downfall by Turkish conquest. The Romans did rule their empire with an iron fist. But compared to barbarian anarchy the Roman society could be called civilised and relatively benign. There must have a lot of content if not necessarily happy people in the Roman Empire. Even among the slaves. 

Judging about America's militarily prowess Todd asserts that the US only picks on little countries in what he calls "theatrical" wars. Todd sounds like a corrupt scientist who fixes, fiddles and ignores experimental data to make them fit with his favourite theory. He has apparently forgotten that the US has beaten Japan with very little help from either the Soviet Union, China, Britain or France for that matter. It has defeated Germany right on time when it was already severely weakened by the Soviets. It has helped to finish off the Spanish Empire in Latin-America. It has won her Independence War against a world-dominating British Empire. 
It has "lost" in Vietnam for lack of democratic support at home. 
I see little "theatre" either tragedy or comedy in these feats. 
Wars of aggression are often lost because the attacker underestimates his victim. Japan severely misjudged America's strength and will to fight and attacked Pearl Harbour. If they would have been more prudent, the Japanese Empire might still rule Asia and more... Napoleon misjudged Russia and lost his Grande Armee to the Russian General Winter. Hitler repeated Napoleon's mistake, but then he was only a corporal trying to command generals. Todd is not qualified to judge on America's military prowess, but he could at least stick to the universally known facts. Except for Vietnam (arguably) America has never lost a war ! 

Another major mistake Todd makes is that he considers Europe to be one power, of course dominated by the notorious French-German axis, which by itself is dominated by France. This notion is simply ridiculous. "Europe" as a political unity does not exist and will not exist for the foreseeable future, in spite of all the efforts of the European Union's bureaucracy. The idea of an United States of Europe was glamorous and popular in the sixties when there were only six member states. Not anymore. Already two states, the Netherlands and France itself, have rejected the so-called European Constitution by referendum, and more are bound to follow. Only the Spanish popular vote has accepted the Constitution. It is meaningful that "Europe" is very popular in countries receiving large EU subsidies, and much less in countries which are paying them. Many Europeans are getting thoroughly pissed-off with the bloated EU bureaucracy, overpopulated by overpaid (tax free!) often corrupt  and always arrogant Eurocrats trying to regulate just about everything down to the size and curvature of bananas. 
I don't think that the EU can ever be a tight political unit such as the US, Japan, China or Russia, which are rather or very monolithic. The heterogeneous Soviet-Union could not last without extreme suppression of the population. Several countries in Europe (Spain, Ireland, UK, Portugal) feel more affinity and familiar relationship with North- or South-America than with their neighbours. On the contrary, almost all European countries have a history of hate and continuous warfare with their neighbours. Hate does not disappear in a generation. War crimes can be forgiven but not forgotten. Germany is still hated by all nations which were occupied by the Nazis, and by the Kaiser before that. Napoleon's massacres have not been forgotten. 
The admission of Turkey, a traditional archenemy of Europe and Christianity, to the EU might well be the last insult to the Europeans that will split it up. 
Some political thinkers credit the EU (formerly known as EC or EEC) with keeping the peace in Europe since WW II . This is a major mistake and a grave injustice to NATO, led by the USA, which has kept considerably armies, navies and especially air forces and nuclear forces permanently on alert. The Soviets knew that they could not just march into Western-Europe without severe losses, and eventually a direct conventional and nuclear confrontation with America. Todd ignores this because it does not fit into his politically-correct frame of anti-American prejudice. 
When visiting the US on business or tourism I'm always impressed by the long lines at immigration. All those immigrants, voting with their feet, can't be wrong!

Todd claims to have predicted the fall of the Soviet-Union years before it happened. I will read his book on that subject to check this. It looks as if by now predicting the fall of the American Empire he wrote a sequel to it. Posing as a professional prophet is a risky business. Some people are predicting the fall of the European Union. I tend to believe the latter will happen rather than the former. 

I conclude that Emmanuel Todd is a fashionable political "scientist" following the  leftist politically-correct line which prevails in Europe among intellectuals. He writes what he thinks that his audience would like to read, not what the facts show. 
He does not write political or historical science but political fiction bordering on propaganda, along the long line of Marxist tradition. 
The origin of the anti-Americanism of Todd and writers of about the same age probably dates back from the boisterous "sixties" with their anti-Vietnam-war demonstrations, student revolts and the rise of  "gauchism" (leftism) . The former student "street revolutionaries" are now comfortably installed in academic teaching positions and government jobs. They feel homesick for their lost youth and try for the last time (hopefully) to rekindle the zeal and appeal of the Roaring Sixties. This includes anti-Americanism, and pro-Russianism for lack of a Soviet-Union, pro-Cubanism and pro-Chinaism. Excuse me for the ugly "ism" words, but that's how Marxism, Leninism, Fascism, Nazism, Gaullism, etcetera are discussed in intellectual circles. 
Buy the book anyway preferably from a dump store, but read it with a wary eye, and compare it  with the true and missing facts. Then get angry at it and write a review paper. Unless you are a Euro-leftie of course. 
