Books have been written, and will continue to be written, to try and disprove Christianity and Jesus as the Son of God. What is almost comical is that one has to print lies and errors to try and convince people. That's because you can't disprove the TRUTH. And what are some of the errors, you ask? I will give you a few: Dan Brown tries to use Gnostic gospels (gospels written in the 2nd century and beyond by people who were not eyewitnesses) to try and prove his theory and omitting New Testament Scripture. To say that Jesus and Mary Magdalene were married by using the Gospel of Phillip (written after 250 A.D.) where there are missing words: And the companion of the [...] Mary Magdalene. [...] more than [...] the disciples, [...] kiss her [...] on her [...]. Clearly, there is some problems with this text with the missing words and the fact that it was written over 200 years after Jesus died. This does not prove anything. Also, he says that the word "companion" means spouse in Aramaic, which is great, except that the Gospel of Philip was written in "Coptic," where "companion" does not mean "spouse!" Second, Dan Brown says that it wasn't until 325 AD at the Council of Nicea did people start to believe Jesus was a Deity and that it was a close vote. New Testament disproves that because it shows that Jesus was Deity where Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15:3-5: "For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, and that He was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve." Also, The Council of Nicea met only to sort out some differences among church leaders, all of whom believed that Jesus was divine. The main question was whether Jesus was begotten or made. Jesus' divinity, death and resurrection were not in question. Only two of 318 clerics at the Council did not sign the Nicene Creed. So there was not a close vote unless you think 318 to 2 is close! Third, his main argument is that it Mary Magdalene in the Last Supper painting by Leo. If that were true, then where is John, the youngest and most beloved apostle? John was often portrayed in a feminine manner to convey youth, as is seen in many stained glass portraits in European cathedrals. And also, Leo was just a painter who was not around when Jesus was, so it didn't matter if he tried to put Mary in a painting or not! Fourth, Brown says that The Gnostic gospels and the Dead Sea Scrolls are "the earliest Christian records." While the New Testament obviously came before the Gnostic gospels, The Dead Sea Scrolls refer to a collection of about 900 documents, many of which are fragmentary scrolls written in Hebrew, Greek and Aramaic, that were discovered in a cave and do not contain even a single mention of Jesus or of any other person mentioned in the New Testament as they are Jewish documents! He also says they were discovered in the 1950's when they were discovered in 1947. Oops! Fifth, Dan Brown says that Christianity borrowed its beliefs from the pagan religion of Mithraism. He says that Mithraism worshipped the pre-Christian God Mithras, called the Son of God and Light of the World, who was born on December 25th, died, was buried in a rock tomb, and then resurrected in three days. Scholars of Mithraism would strongly disagree with Brown on all of these points. Nowhere is Mithras given the title Son of God and the Light of the World. Brown apparently made this up because it sounded good. Mithras was born on December 25th, however this proves nothing. The New Testament never associated December 25th with the birth of Christ. The early Christians chose to celebrate the birth of Christ on this day intentionally to oppose the pagan mid-winter festival of Saturnalia. They never claimed Jesus was actually born on that date. The claim that Mithras died and was buried in a rock tomb is just not true. Scholars will tell you that in Mithraism there is no death of Mithras at all. So, there was no rock tomb and no resurrection. So once again, he is nowhere near correct. Lastly, Brown says that the four canonical gospels were chosen from over 80 gospels. First, there were only less than half that many books written about Jesus life. The two Gnostic gospels Brown relies on most heavily weren't written until the second century A.D., long after the New Testament gospels were written. It makes sense that the Gnostic gospels came about in the late second century, as this is when Gnostic thought was most prevalent. However, the New Testament was complete before the end of the 1st Century. Also, the Gospel of Thomas, which Dan Brown lies heavily on,claims women must become men in order to receive salvation. That makes no sense. There are many other errors in this novel, but I think I have showed there are enough lies in this book not to be taken seriously. This is pure (or rather "poor") fiction, without a shred of evidence that Jesus was anything other than the Christ, the Son of the living God! Thank you, Dan Brown, for making my faith stronger
