Philip Roth is a taste I haven't acquired yet.  He is lauded by critics - including Harold Bloom, who just happens to be a friend of his - as perhaps the greatest living American writer.  Before this novel, I had only read Portnoy's Complaint, which I couldn't even finish; I found it hopelessly dated, pedantic, and repetitive.  I like Operation Shylock more than Portnoy's Complaint, I guess - although I can't say that I really ENJOYED either.  However, at least things happen in this novel.  The gimmick of the book is that it is a "confession" - a story of supposedly true events that happened to Philip Roth in 1988.  The story concerns the emergence of a "fake" Philip Roth who is traveling around Israel, promoting the cause of "Diasporism" - the relocation of Israel's Jews back to Europe.  The real Roth travels to Jerusalem to confront his impostor.  

Having now read the book, it is difficult to tell whether or not the real Roth is for Diasporism.  There is a lot of anti-Zionist rhetoric in the book - much of which I found distasteful - but is that the "real" Roth or not?  Is he really anti-Zionist?  It's hard to say, because he frequently asserts how foolish Diasporism is: the European community would not welcome the Jews back with open arms.   

Somewhere in one of Raymond Chandler's novels, Philip Marlowe mocks Hemmingway as a man who thinks saying the same thing over and over makes it profound.  Well, the same thing can be said of Philip Roth.  There are a lot of things about his style I don't like.  He is very pedantic: he always has an axe to grind, but instead, he grinds his readers into the ground.  He allows his characters to speak, sometimes for pages at a time, without so much as starting a new paragraph.  His most annoying trait however, is how in love with himself he is.  It's odd but true - if you keep saying how great you are, people will believe you.  Through his characters, he lavishes praise onto himself and his books.  Also, he's apparently catnip to the ladies.

Is this novel non-fiction?  Of course not.  Will I ever read another Philip Roth novel?  Probably - with so many critics telling me I'm wrong, I have to allow for that possibility.  I'm just not looking forward to the experience.
