I had high hopes for this book after hearing Ms. Jentz interviewed.  Unfortunately, it's mostly just navel-gazing.  Her thoughts and feelings might hold my interest -- if they had been focused enough.

This book has an intriguing story to tell:  the attack on Ms. Jentz and her friend, their reasons for riding across America, and Ms. Jentz's later search for the perpetrator and the reasons the case was never solved.  Unfortunately, the book is very heavily burdened with navel gazing and overwrought prose.  This would have been a nice, tight story at 200 pages.  At 500, it's bloated.  An editor is desperately needed.

Large portions of the book seem to be virtually lifted verbatim from the author's journals.  We find out how she feels about EVERYTHING that happens.  You get to hear about every little gesture and movement as if they are important.  I don't care what evil portent for the future is contained in the color of a road sign.  Everything is burdened with dense discussion of feelings and everything seems to portend ... something -- virtually always (of course:  99%+ of life is just happenstance) leads nowhere and is never mentioned again.

Here are some examples:

Navel gazing:
"Rather, because I wanted her to pay attention; I wanted her to reach in and touch me in response to this life-changing event.  (And anyway, hadn't she helped save me too?  Without her energizing presence fighting for life, I might have bled to death in that place.)  No.  It wasn't about the saving.  I wanted her to let me into her psyche, as she had lodged in mine.  Something, however small, was missing in the room that night -- an unrequited something or another -- a missing moment that followed me with the fidelity of a shadow for a very long time."  (p. 106)  (Gaaaakkk!)

Overwrought prose:
"The desert is a holy void, all essentials burned away.  It has a presence as powerful as the ocean, a raw force that acts on us, puts us under the influence of what we cannot control."  (p. 70)  What does this have to do with the story?  Has she read The Desert (Van Dyke), Seven Pillars of Wisdom, Arabian Sands, or even the Bible?

"Perhaps a fascination with transgressive excess, our seduction by the spectacle of power, goes some distance in explaining why Americans are in swoon, why the movies, books, and popular music dwell on criminals, particularly killers of the serial or mass-murdering variety."  (p. 158)  Please!

So much of this stuff is larded amongst the story, I just stopped caring after a while.  These kind of things have to comprise at least 50% of the book.  Some entire chapters are made up of this.  I found myself skipping entire paragraphs all the time (oh God, more of that!).

So, you're thinking, oh, he's just a MAN, they have no feelings and don't care about feelings.  Well, no.  I like a good, emotionally charged book.  However, I don't care to hear about how she felt when remembering how she felt at age 4 when she found her pet beetle dead.  I read many sections of this book aloud to my wife and she thought them ludicrous.

If you enjoy slogging through another's every little emotion and thought, regardless of relevance, you may enjoy this book.  Maybe it's therapeutic self-help for some traumatized readers.  But for me, the story just gets lost in the mess
