I found Neal's book to be an interesting approach to the controversy between Christian Potter lovers and haters, yet I felt it was a rather weak and unimpressive attempt on Neal's part.  

In Neal's introduction, she claims to have a dual purpose in writing the book: 1) to present a counterargument to the idea that just because one can examine the series and "find things [that] can correlate to real-world occult practices" (Neal viii), this proves that the Harry Potter books are about witchcraft, and 2) "to interest people who have been turned off by traditional ways of communicating the [gospel] message" (Neal xiii).

To be fair, I do believe that Neal technically achieved both of these goals in her book; she does present a compelling counterargument to the idea that the Potter books are about witchcraft, and her writing does seem to have the potential to interest people in the gospel who have been turned off by traditional evangelistic methods.  

However, I believe her first goal is achieved even before reaching the midpoint of the book, and the remainder of the book feels tedious and petty.  Concerning her second goal, I believe the non-Christian reader's interest may be piqued by Neal's unconventional communication of the gospel, yet the author's continual reemphasis of a handful of biblical truths seems likely to detract from the power of her evangelistic effort.  The reader will likely experience déjà vu every few chapters: "Hasn't the author previously explained, thoroughly, this exact same point half a dozen times?"

A word of advice for would-be authors: do not achieve your goals halfway through a book.  If you find you have made your point after only 80 pages, end the book there.  If you continue rambling, the readers will likely lose interest in the remainder of the book and, if they continue reading until the end, will walk away with a bad taste in their mouth.  Visionary goals and insightful revelations only make a powerful impact on the reader if they are able to finish a book, reflect on the intriguing arguments presented within it, and walk away continuing to ponder what they have read.

Neal's ideas in and of themselves have a strong potential to influence readers, but in actuality she significantly hindered her books' potential by her presentation of these ideas. 
