What is this novel, The Marble Faun, that so many have said they &quot;just simply must read&quot; before travelling to the continent?  There seems to be some confusion about it, not only in my mind, but in the minds of others as well.  I know, at least that the publishers have had their questions.  Why else would they be unable to agree on a title?  Even though they may have agreed to publish the book, the British publishers spoke their mind at least and changed the author's title to Transformations.  After publication I'm sure they had wished that they had changed more than that.  It seems that the publishers also had to search for a selling point for the novel.  The prose alone could not carry sales, so they have added photographs and made it &quot;the great travel book of our age&quot;.  Of course, I dare say people are buying the book more for the pictures than for the story itself.  The anticipation of seeing the piazza where Hilda's tower stands has intrigued the reader more than the murder, and the characters' subsequent transformations and loss of innocence ever could.   The story itself, centering around the actions of the four characters seems long and confused.  The characters float between scenes acting as they would anywhere else; the changing backdrops seem to act only as a way of keeping the travelling reader's attention.  Although Hawthorne makes sure you see that the four characters do in fact change (in such chapters as &quot;The Faun's Transformation&quot;), the characters seem to be simply caricatures, over-exaggerated looks at one type of person.  This is also accentuated by Hawthorne's use of epithets - such as &quot;The Sculptor&quot;, &quot;The Dove,&quot; and &quot;The Faun&quot;.  Because of this the book has the air of being a presentation of four friends' romp through Italy, rather than being the intricate tale of four characters' lives and relationships.  One may wonder why Hawthorne chose to publish the Marble Faun in one volume rather than serially, as is common for his contemporaries.  The answer to me seems clear.  If a reader were to ever put this book down, he would not have the heart to pick it up again
