If anyone would visit Dallas, Texas and the location where JFK was shot, you realize just how much disinformation has been written on this subject, especially this screen play. I found the entire screen play just a fatasy  of paranoid exploitation by a profiteer claiming to sell the truth! For  example, the grassy knoll is less than 30 feet from the road way, with an  easy 10 second slow jog, up a knoll about 3 feet high from the road way, to  the fence on the Grassy Knoll. If shots came from there it was easy for any  policeman to run to that area, let alone see anyone tryimg to shoot from  such an open area. Even a quick getaway is not as easy as this screen play  makes it out to be, since you can preview the entire parking lot for over  100 yards. Also, the distance from the sixth floor to the road is far  closer by observation that anyone can imagine, except for Oliver Stone.  These easy observable locations makes the Warren Report much more accurate  than this screen play. Also, the people who benefited by JFK's death was  the Democratic Party and its leadership not any right wing Republican  radicals? Johnson won overwhelmingly and the Democrats took even a stronger  positions in the House and Senate. Moreover, to support such a screen play  based upon the past reliability of the author in biographies that are  suppose to be real stories about real people is another reason to doubt its  integrity. Again, another example I can cite here is &quot;On The Fourth Of  July&quot; where Ron Kovic was beaten and thrown out of the 1968 Democratic  Convention, not the Republican Convention. What few know is that Oliver  Stone was a delegate to the Democratic Convention but this fact permits him  to change facts in this film based on poetic license. So be it, but such  behavior cannot be construed for the truth by a truth teller. The same for  this screen play, it is a great work of intentioanl fiction meant to poison  the minds of the reader to reasonable, objective and available facts, and  does it very well indeed, If the public prefers to remain blind, so be it!  Some will say these are stupid stories for stupid people, others will say  it is a great tale but please remember it is just entertainment. Well, this  screen play is a very entertaining story but please don't call it a book of  facts, truth and accuracy. It is a very good fable as well as the film
