I am now at page 590 in a 720 page book.  Absolutely nothing of relevance has happened.  Similar to the 2nd book, I'm guessing the last 50 pages will be a crazy and implausible 'wrap up'.  Instead of focusing on how verity regains his throne, how they thwart the red ships or how they dispose of regal, the only thing that happens is we get to read about how fitz travels literally from buck to past the mountains.  Nothing really happens along the way either.  Fitz travels on a road little more than a trail, he gets tired, goes to sleep, starts skilling toward molly and burrich although he doesn't want to and then wakes up again to drink some elfbark tea.  Rinse and repeat for 600 pages, literally.  I see no adequate way for Hobb to 'finish' up this book in the next 130 pages considering her rambling writing style.  I find myself thinking "oh no he's going to sleep again" and shaking my head almost every other chapter.
Fitz gets captured like three times and three times he 'manages' to escape.  I felt like i was watching an episode of the original Batman on television!

It's amazing how one can write 600 pages and have nothing happen at all.  I understand character development but this is beyond reasonable when it's 99% that and 1% story/plot.  I also found myself thinking aloud "i don't want to read this anymore" many times throughout the meanderings in this book.  I'm not exaggerating, nothing happens in the 600 pages I've read.  

Not to mention the number of plot holes I've encountered.  It's baffling.
I really regret reading this series.  For example, Molly encounters old men who recognize her as the bastard's woman, yet Regal can still not find her!  Okay!  


It started off decent with the first book.  It was a good intro and I was excited to start the 2nd book.  After 500 pages in that book with nothing happening, i started to get an idea of about the 3rd.  But by then it was too late to stop reading the series.

Hobb's writing style is at times rather annoying too.  Whenever the characters ask a question with a negative particle, she insists on switching the subject with the negative ala "Can not you.." or "Should not you.."  Then she switches back to regular American dialogue.  She isnt' consistent with it either.  It's awkward at best.  Each and every single female character has to be sassy and always try to take charge.  God forbid she portrays a female that's not 'equal' to men or appears weak!  Her villains are laughable.  

We know nothing of more of the red ships or Regal, or the forged ones by 500 pages into the third book than we did 50 pages into book one.  It's astounding how she can concentrate so much on Fitz, who never really grows anyway, and leave all the other characters to a single dimensional fate.  Regal is the embodiment of evil and that's good enough for you!

I really want to stop reading this book even now at 600 pages into it because I know the ending is going to be terrible, yet I am compelled to finish it because I've invested so much time into it...

Read this book at your own risk
