My name is Professor Yoshihiro Hoshi. After 18 years practice as a sexual therapist for me came a great moment. It all began in 1984 with the pop up on the world's market of Mantak Chia's "Taoist Secrets of Love: Cultivating Male Sexual Energy". This was his first quite good book which teaches how to circulate and cultivate your sexual energy for mental and spiritual development. A key point in it is to contract the so called PC muscle. This is necessary to guide the energy towards the spinal cord. This book has never been popular. However, in 1997 appeared a twist of this book namely "The Multi-Orgasmic Man". The difference between these two books is very small. 

Barbara Keesling a philosophy doctor in Psychology followed suit in 1994 and published similar book: "How to make love all night". Once again at the spotlight is the PC muscle. She also insists that its contractions (the trivial start-stop technique) can give you multi-orgasms. Since 1984 and especially in the last 8 years these two books didn't have an alternative.  That's why neither I nor any of my colleagues said anything against them. 

For my great happiness this was changed recently. It was Dr. Mitzumoto from Tokyo who was the first one to spot a major breakthrough in the Sexuality filed- the emerge of "Scientifically guaranteed male multi-orgasms and ultimate sex" by A. Ritz. I want on my own to support his support for this outstanding book and state that Mantak Chia and Barbara Keesling's techniques for (ab)using the PC muscle should be replaced by contractions of "The VIP Muscle". 

It does NOT take months of exercising and strengthening it as in the case of Chia and Keesling's techniques. I will be surprised if anyone needs more than 15 seconds to find it and up to 3 days to prepare his body to get the maximum out of it. This "VIP muscle" is the REAL and ONLY possible orgasms generator in the male body! The PC muscle is used only to hold your urine and execute an ejaculation.  

Hyper-activation of the PC muscle which occurs from "exercising" it leads to premature ejaculations as Ritz proves with thorough biochemical and anatomical evidences. The reason is its direct connection with the Sympathetic nervous system which manages the ejaculation process. On the contrary, The VIP Muscle is connected with the Parasympathetic nervous system which pacifies and nurtures the body. That's why the only muscle a man should use for multi-orgasms and ejaculation control is The VIP Muscle. Chia and Keesling's abusive techniques for the PC muscle can and should finally become history.
