For any number of reasons I can probably say that this is one of the worst books I have ever read. I understand that a lot of people think this is genius. I am not one of them. Personally, I don't find endless descriptions of sex with minority boys to be very entertaining reading, let alone genius. I also don't find pointless prose that appears to have no discernable thread of thought to have much value. Personally, I like to read good story tellers, authors like Tom Robbins or Salman Rushdie. Naked Lunch is about as opposed to them as you can reasonably get.

This is one of those books that sounds a lot better when someone translates it for you. In reading the preface where Norman Mailer talks about it in the context of the court proceedings in the 1960s, the book sounds interesting and culturally pertinent. However, upon reading it the book falls far short of the lofty status we get from Mailer's answers on the stand. I understand how Alan Ginsberg, a proclaimed NAMBLA member, would find it's material suitable. I wonder about Mailer though. While I'll never take a stand against a person's writing what they want, I do take pause when someone recommends something like this.

This is not literature so much as a heroin clouded view of the author's own serious problems and his interpretation of our culture's deficiencies. The notion that this is the "naked" truth, or lunch as it is so called, is so absurd that the book should never have been accepted as remotely resembling cult literature, in the past, present, or future. Who reads this and resonates with it? Who thinks, "Yes, gay sex with boys is what my mind is all about? Oh, and all the better that they're Arabs!" Very few people, the author included. Burroughs himself admits this was difficult to write. This is probably due to the fact that the vignettes portrayed here do not, in fact, represent anything so much as the anarchy resplendent in the author's own mind while he struggled with various addictions. As a case study in heroin and morphine addiction, this may have some merit. As a counterculture commentary on society I find it worthless.

This isn't about my sensibilities being assaulted - far from it. If I can read & enjoy Robbins's linguistic forays into sex with nuns, I can handle just about anything. I'm not offended with flying sperm so much as I am insulted that anyone felt this was worth reading; that I was lured into thinking this was a work of art. It's not. 

Sometimes I read books that don't suit me, but I understand why someone would like it. This book falls squarely in the camp where people feel they need to proclaim it genius because they're so confused or intimidated by it. This book is far from genius. The author admits it was put together from scraps of things written while he was in his heavy heroin addiction, and that he vaguely remembers much of it. I don't see how, or in what context, this book will appeal to anyone other than a case study of a certain segment of people at a certain instance in time in America
