	Sally Denton's Faith and Betrayal is a disappointing book. It promised all the elements of an exceptionally dramatic (and true) story: love and loss, wealth and poverty, dedication and disillusionment, an epic journey, a peculiar religion, polygamy, theocracy, a massacre, and perhaps betrayal. But Denton's account is so replete with inaccuracies and confusion of facts that it destroys all credibility. Listing her errors would take nearly as many pages as the book itself. In addition she failed to use the richest repository of primary sources of Mormon history-the LDS Church Historical Department Archives. Presumably this is because she assumed she would not be welcome, she believed the records there had been selectively censored, or she thought they would have little relevance.

	As a non-Mormon historian working on the stories of disillusioned converts in the same period of the mid-nineteenth century, I can assure her that for the past decade I have never been refused generous help in the Church Archives and have found the records there amazingly rich, especially the correspondence of Brigham Young and the diaries of contemporaries of those who left the church.

	Denton makes Jean Rio's piano a pivotal issue, which she says was brought to Utah in 1851, though Jean Rio never mentions it in her trip diary nor does the captain of the company she traveled with in his (which is in the Church Archives). Denton fails to give a source for her account of it. It is quite possible Jean Rio ordered the piano later after her arrival in Salt Lake and had it shipped from the East. As for the tar-covered crate (p. 165), if that is in a museum in California, could not have Denton done the research to find where it is?

	Was Jean Rio's piano taken by the church leaders through "consecration"-a rule of stewardship (pp. xvii, 129)? Did Denton bother to inquire in the Church Archives what the consecration records show? Not all records survived, but many did. It is unlikely the church purged them of information about the piano. Likewise, did Denton ever ask the staff at the Museum of Church History and Art about the provenance of the piano? One Jean Rio descendent believes it was gifted to the museum by a Mormon descendant. Here again Denton confuses her facts: She states (p. 130) that the piano is in the "Church Temple Museum"; there is no such institution.

	Denton claims the piano ended up in the "Amelia Palace, the home of Young's favorite wife, a beautiful Englishwoman named Ann Eliza Webb Dee Young Denning..." (p. 129). Here Denton has all too typically confused Young's so-called "favorite" wife Harriet Amelia Folsom with a later wife, Ann Eliza. Neither were English. The Gardo House, the so-called "Amelia's Palace," was not finished until after Brigham Young's death; Amelia lived in it a short period to establish her claim in Young's will, while Ann Eliza never lived there.

	Denton quotes from one of my papers (pp. 153-54), and although the quote is correct, she misinterprets my account, stating "The flow of Mormon defectors had become the largest emigration to that point, far surpassing even the California gold rush." No records can support that idea. Likewise, she claims that "U.S. Army escorts oversaw a burgeoning traffic of disaffected Mormons fleeing Zion." There was only one such escort from Salt Lake of approximately forty families.

	Although a beautifully produced little book, publisher Alfred A. Knopf should be embarrassed at having accepted and published such a consistently unreliable "history." I'm sorry to advise potential readers not to waste their money
