This book purports to be both a critique of Postmodern culture and a Biblical path into the future.  In the end it is an almost total acceptance of the postmodern revolt against enlightenment rationalism, complete with the implication that the Christian church of the last few centuries is hopelessly absorbed into that "enlightenment project".  

While the authors do a bit of critique of the fringes of radical PM, they have totally woven themselves into the garment.  True to the more radical positions of the PM movement, the assumption is that that we have two choices and only two - Modernist arrogance or Postmodern subjectivity.  While they authors accept the PM notion that all "totalizing" systems are evil, they blindly swallow the most totalizing and destructive notion of all, that we are hopelessly locked into subjectivity about anything and everything.

In addition, regular usage of left of center code words such as "victim", "oppressor", "violence" and "terror" show the real cards the authors are holding.  If you have a position of power or influence it is assumed you MUST be an oppressor, you have no choice because of your Western Enlightenment cultural arrogance.  If you suggest you know something truly, you are part of the enlightenment system "totalizing" intellectual constructivism and thus of violent oppression.  Simply asserting that something is true is an act of intellectual violence, which crushes the dignity of someone else whose viewpoint is different.  

Their solution is to embrace the metanarrative of the Biblical story, in which the oppressed and suffering Israelites are rescued from Egypt, or in which Christ's identification with the poor and oppressed lights a path to radical equality.  So they suggest a third alternative in a Biblical Metanarrative, but even that solution assumes the very philosophy they supposedly are critiquing.	

In the end, though much is said about the Bible, since nothing can be deemed objective, the Bible cannot be used to test and evaluate the validity of Socrates, Bacon, Derrida, Foucault or anyone else.  Scripture is just another story that may be intriguing and in fact unique because it seems to suggest answers that are not "oppressive" to the "marginalized".   The proposed answer is to subjectively enter the "story" of the text and creatively write new chapters of the history of salvation based on what is in the end, very squishy and uncertain estimations of what God might be doing.  

Thus PM eisogesis is imposed on the text.  The Old Testament is not a story of human rebellion against God and honest records of triumphs and failings of fallen humans, rather it is reinterpreted from a PM viewpoint as a story of God's actions to right injustice and thwart the oppression of the marginalized by the unjust rulers.  In the NT Christ's resurrection has more to do with identifying with the poor and oppressed than any 2000-year-old orthodox sense of atoning for personal sin. 

The difference between these ramblings and the prophetic (though not flawless) analysis of someone like Francis Schaeffer is that Schaeffer rejected BOTH modernist rationalism AND the growing rejection of and "escape from" reason.  As fallen and finite beings we can never know exhaustively or perfectly, but we can know sufficiently and truly - objectivity is imperfect, but not an illusion.

This inability of PM thinkers to see culture and personal perspective as an influence on but not a complete destruction of objective reality is frightening.   It is also silly.  Try as the PM advocates might to deny reality, it ends up crashing down on them eventually.  

I suppose I could go down to my bank and suggest to the officers there that my perception of my account balance is quite different from their totalizing linguistic construct.  As they try to toss me out on my ear, I could protest that their objective reading of the data is hopelessly enmeshed in their modernist illusions of objectivity and certainty and such totalizing views of mathematics and western economics are oppressive and violent to my freedom and dignity and economic well being.  I could suggest that they should identify with my oppressed state.  Of course the violence they would do to me at that point would go beyond language games.  And the objective reality of my actual account balance would not bend to my subjective construction of it.
	
Modernism may need correcting, but intellectual suicide is not the answer.
	
