Rodney Stark comes off as a hard-nosed, half-baked individual incapable of higher reasoning. I want to focus on his claims that science needed Christian theology in order to thrive. Why didn't he talk about how Copernicus and Galileo and other prominent Christian scientists who were threatened with torture or even death when they contradicted official Church teachings (like the Earth was the center of the universe - I loved that one, very scientific)? That hardly sounds like an organization sympathetic with uninhibited scientific exploration. Also, his claims that science existed as an organized system only in Christian Europe is simply a joke. We STILL don't know how the ancient Egyptians built those massive pyramids to such a precise scale that all 4 sides of Giza's great pyramid have less than a yard of difference. The engineering and mathematical principles necessary for that feat are incalculable, and they did it in less than 20 years with nothing more than copper tools and hand labor!!! India invented the zero, which is the basic foundation for higher mathematical reasoning. China invented highly sophisticated technologies like block printing, paper currency, magnets, gunpowder, cannon, and silk (which includes the concept of raising animal species - silkworms - for cultivation as cash crops, not food sources) that all were later absorbed by a European society too simple to invent them for themselves.  Not very impressive on Christianity's part. It was the Arabs who used early Greek mathematical discoveries about geometry and trigonometry to formulate algebra and pave the way for calculus.   The Maya had possessed a calendar over a thousand years ago that is STILL 0.001 of a day more accurate than the system we use TODAY and they  figured out the Processional year (time necessary for earth's axis to complete one wobble: ~36,000 years) while we needed computers to even detect that terrestrial motion! No, (even though I am a devout Catholic) the only possible conclusion that can be made about science is that overall, Europe STOLE technological and scientific innovations from around the world in order to dominate the world militarily and economically.  They weren't smarter, just more parasitic.  Also, by wiping out religious enemies like the Maya and destroying their cultural heritage, they obscured the European Christians themselves could ever hope to be. 
