	I loathed this book when I was an undergraduate student, more so than any
	textbook I've ever encountered before or since. And what do you know? 
	Reading it again, sixteen years later, I loathe it just as much. 
	This was the book that instilled in me a hatred of everything and anything
	to do with optics, a hatred that persists to this day.
	It is the very fact that I hate optics so much that had me reading this 
	book again. I figured that if I was to try to learn optics again, this 
	time in a more pleasant fashion, perhaps the best way to start was to 
	return to where it all began, to go over Hecht & Zajac again to see what 
	they say, evaluate it in the light of my older, more knowledgeable me, and
	remember essentially the points they cover for comparison when I read a 
	better (ie any other whatsoever) text.
	Just what is it that makes this book so very bad?
	Any textbook can have convoluted physical explanations that make no sense.
	Likewise any textbook can include plodding mathematical explanations that
	get so worn down explaining basic and trivial points that by the time you 
	reach their end you've forgotten what the goal was. 
	Any textbook author can devote no time whatsoever to such pedagogical 
	basics as making sure the material is ordered so that everything builds 
	on what came before, and that a thorough overview is presented before the 
	details are covered, of just what we are about to do and why.
	Of course H&Z cover these basics with aplomb, but they manage to include 
	two far more vicious pathologies. The first, usually only found in quantum 
	mechanics books, is the historical pathology; they are so in love with the 
	history of optics that they are unwilling to ever explain anything in 
	modern (which usually means maxwellian) terms when they could explain it 
	in some alternative fashion involving some historical picture from 1820 or 
	1840 or whatever. The result is that instead of a coherent description of 
	optics as maxwell's equations followed by a long sequence of teasing out 
	the consequences of the equations, we see a constant hodge-podge of 
	different theoretical models throughout the book, each appropriate to its
	particular problem and little else. Don't get me wrong; I like history as 
	much as (probably rather more so) than the next physicist, but I want a 
	textbook on optics to teach me the optics; I'll learn the history from my 
	history of optics textbook. We don't teach mechanics or heat or EM this 
	way (for the most part) and for good reason.
	The second H&Z pathology is specific to their text alone, and it is that 
	they cannot get it through their thick skulls that they are writing a 
	general optics textbook, not a (very poor) reference manual, not an 
	experimentalist's handbook. The text is littered with bizarre asides about 
	how to view the issue just discussed in some variant fashion, the point of
	which, to anyone who is not an expert, is completely mystifying; it would 
	be cruel of me to say so, but I'll do it anyway --- these inclusions seem 
	very much to come across as a form of insecure boasting, a way of saying, 
	"you think you're better than me? you think so? well what do you know 
	about xyz's paper in 1963? do you know how to modify the theory of 
	geometrical optics so as to give results just like standard diffraction
	theory? no --- I thought so." 
	If you can, in any way whatsoever, avoid this book. Read anything else at 
	all to learn about optics
