Marx'claims about the timing and the manipulative origins of nationalism do not quite fit the facts. I will show that one consequence of Marx's thesis may be a variant of Hugh Trevor Roper's view of  Hitler as a traditional European statesman. Viz., Hitler fostered German development toward an enlightened society [the Federal Republic?] by conjuring religious [/ethnic] disharmony to consolidate Nazi power. [Of course, as Sauer has shown about the Gauliter system, fascists aimed at a return to pre-modern, de- centralized, charismatic forms of organization. So not all nationalism serves a centralization aim.]  Marx's  mistaken thesis rests upon tendentious examples. Neo- [Karl] Marxists have maintained since mid- 2oth century that elites manipulated antecedent nationalism to achieve political cohesion against foreign enemies. T Marx merely takes the thesis that nationalism was manipulated [e.g., in WWI] to subvert class solidarity, next internalizes it to apply to intra-state cohesion, then projects this twisted commonplace backward as a sort of genetic fallacy. Rather,the most portentous exclusionary[eliminationist?] European nationalism was ultimately the Germanic variety. But its genesis (e.g., Herder, Goethe- the latter being the quintessence of liberalism qua Aufklarung] plainly predated any serious political centralization efforts beyond Joseph II's. Marx' move here must be to claim there since there was no nation-building before Bismarck, ergo the prior nationalist movement [e.g., resistance to Napoleon] does not qualify as nationalism of the right sort [did not culminate in liberal state?? but cf the Hitler rumination above]. Ergo, the German experience is disqualified as a counter- example and so cannot count as evidence against his statist incubation thesis. But dismissing this counter- example by disallowing it demonstrates that, at bottom, his thesis is a mere recommendation about how historians should use the honorific "modern nationalism". That is, his enterprise is revealed as attemppting to establish a stipulative definition of nationalism. It is not a historical account of nationlism's development. Alternatively, he must modify his conclusion so that royal centralization did not originate nationalism, but deformed it into his procrustean mold. But when did state- induced nationalism arise, even in German lands?  
   What about Marx' temporal claim that nationalism was the product of [royal] centralization in the early modern epoch?  The dynamic of centralization, particularly in France [but also in the Holy Roman Empire] began centuries before. It did not start with exclusionary cohesion/ religious factionalism in the 15th century, but with a conflict with the papacy in the 11th. The Investiture Contest with the Pope ostensibly concerned the king/ emperor's rights vs that of the Pontiff in nominating bishops to be invested with consecrated ecclesiastical -- and political/ temporal-- authority. As bishops were among the super- castellans of that feudal epoch, this effort to create a national church - one in liege service to central authority- was at least a progenitor of the nationalist phenomenon Marx attempts to explain. Not a mass movement, Marx objects?  Perhaps the later Reformation era factionalism mobilized and augmented the nationalism implicit in the 11th and intervening centuries. But nationalism was not the product of that later conflict
