I just had to read and write a review about this book based on my niece's meeting with Sean. But first, the review.

In order not to diminish the previous reviews, I will just focus on the whole war talk. On page 4--no messing around here--Sean states, "[w]e must take the war to them, rooting them out of their swamps and destroying the despotic regimes that furnish their lifeblood." Wow, bring it on dude. Oh, you mean let's send somebody else's kid to fight, right? On page 247 he drills that point in with, "[i]'d like to see the good governor [Dean] present a case that there's any higher moral cause than defending one's innocent countrymen against terrorist attack." If it's such a great "moral cause," Sean, why oh why ain't you out there with the rest of my family? Does this, by the way, mean you are immoral since you punked out? I never thought of myself as "moral" just because I volunteered and served as a paratrooper in Vietnam. Is military service only for Democrats and brown people? Should we have a new draft catagory such as "1R" for "Republican," which means you don't have to serve?

To paraphrase Frank Purdue, it takes a tender man to spout tough talk. Page 108 puts down Democrats (I'm a Democrat who served in Vietnam, or am I repeating myself?) with, "[w]hen it comes to the Hitlers, the Brezhnevs, the Saddams, pussyfooting is the order of the day." Yeah, Sean, tell me what you really think. Well, Sean, some of us are out there strapping it on every day while you...do....what? And wasn't the Bush family in business with Hitler during WWII?

Here is really why this guy is full of himself. My niece, visiting me before heading to the Gulf and her first combat tour, spotted him in DC. She introduced herself and told him she was a fan. When she told him she was in the military he offered her a free book, saying he would ship it to her. She is very polite, and told him he didn't have to. Sean insisted. She wrote her address down. Before heading overseas, I asked her if Sean had sent the book as promised. No (and no surprise for me). So, me being me, I contacted Sean by email twice but got not reply. Too busy impressing all those other servicewomen, I guess.

Sean Hannity, not just by this book but by his actions, is a coward, blowhard, and more interested in putting the make on cute servicewomen. His book dedication to his wife means about as much as the rest of the book. You should be ashamed of yourself, Sean, but that would mean taking a "moral" position, wouldn't it? 
