I've scanned through most of the past Amazon reviews of this book and I find it surprising at how different my opinion is. I have in fact read the whole book cover to cover and I own a $1000 digital camera and a $200 inkjet printer and I have as a hobbyist done a tremedous amount of printing using this type of middle class printing. So I thought a book on the subject would help fill in some holes in my knowledge. In a nutshell my problem with this book is that it is without a doubt not meant for someone like me using this "middle class" tools. I found the book incredibly elitist, the only thing I really learned was I must buy more & better equipment to be a real artist - what I have isn't good enough apparently. For example apparently you need at least 8 megapixels to print an 8x10? My other main issue is that after having read the entire book, when I go to print an image nothing has changed at all - I still do everything exactly the same simply because none of the information in the book applied to me unless I buy thousands of dollars to hundreds of thousands dollars worth of additional gear - and in general there was no info on how to use this gear specifically either - just you should have it. I've read an enormous amount of technical books over the years and on average most are great in that they strive to empower the reader with the skills and knowledge to achieve better things - but this book seems to achieve the reverse - unempowering the reader with lists and graphs and photos of things you can't ever possibly obtain. It's quite unique. 

So honestly if you're a regular human being who has a camera and printer then this book is really not intended for you. The book's title and back cover do indicate otherwise, there's a photo of a consumer digital camera and nice write up that sounds like it'll apply to you in the same way a fortune cookie is vague. The experience level is also listed at beginner to expert in an attempt to net as many potential buyers as possible. 

Who would this book be good for? Perhaps if you are working or beginning to work in a professional print shop that has many professional fine artist clients - this would be a good buy. Or if you're rich and can buy anything you feel like, this would serve as a good catalog.  The other advantage if you're rich is you get to be a "real" artist. There were a few parts I did like, one section of 5 pages had a really good overview of the steps to take in color managing your system - if you have the gear of couse, but nonetheless it was useful to know. Unfortunately many chapters just feel entirely useless, the author seems obessed with print permanence which is how long prints will last, he goes on and on about it, always avoiding specifics and generalizing and stressing the importance of performing your own permanence tests and although it is useful on one level it could of been 4 pages not 35. At one point he suggests if you don't have time to perform your own tests you can contract out your permanence testing - does this sound like you? If so I recommend this book to you.
