As tempted as I am to give this book 3 stars, 2 stars is closer to rating the whole.

First, this book is for the novice. If you're more than a little familiar with medieval European history, you'll find nothing new here except Cahill's sometimes quirky interpretations of people and events. For some, these interpretations alone will be enough to revisit Hildegard, Abelard, and Eleanor of Aquitaine. Those who've read full length biographies of the main "characters" or the Durants' Story of Civilization or even Freeman's Closing of the Western Mind may want to skip this volume.

The point of Cahill's Hinges of History series seems to be "if you think history isn't fun and relevant, think again." I have a soft spot for such ventures so Cahill starts out in the plus column with me. I enjoyed "How the Irish Saved Civilization" for what is was, pop history meant to whet but not satisfy the appetite. Approach this volume with that in mind and you will likely enjoy it. I found numerous points of disagreement with his "theories" - the rise of feminism, for instance, hardly began with Eleanor!

Unfortunately, Cahill goes off the rails in the introduction and in the conclusion. In the Intro Cahill praises Italy's anti-death penalty stance and then detours to tell us about his "friend" who was on Texas's death row for a crime "he probably didn't commit", was a great guy and was ultimately executed and isn't modern day America wrong wrong wrong about the death penalty. This left me asking two questions: 1) huh? and 2) why doesn't Cahill write a book and tell his friend's story instead of shoehorning it into the Middle Ages?

When Cahill rants about the pedophile scandals in the US Catholic Church while sadly ignoring similar scandals in Ireland and in the Anglican Church in Australia it feels like what it is - a rant, not a commentary on history or current events. When he then makes veiled comparisons between Philip the Fair of France - who is barely mentioned in the main text - and a certain American President (who he doesn't name so I guess I won't either), Cahill's take on Philip the Fair is so wrong-headed and lame, on top of being entirely unaddressed in the previous pages that I couldn't help feeling more than a little tricked. Again, why doesn't Cahill take his strongly held views about current events and write about them on their own? As it is, Cahill risks making the entire book look like a scam - he's not really interested in the Middle Ages, just scoring a few points. I don't believe that is the case but Cahill's antics damage his credibility even as a popular historian. Hence the 2 stars. I hope Cahill's editors exercise a bit more restraint for the next volume of Hinges
