Despite all the good reviews, this game is pathetic. Here are the reasons:

Horrible Stereotypes: If you're a Brujah character, you'll be like every other Brujah in existence. It's just that simple, if you want Celerity and Potence you play Brujah, if you want Presence you play Ventrue (those who've read the book understand the last sentence). The only good way to get a nice mix is to make a Clanless (Munchkin Alert!) or make up your own Clan (which Vamp players hate, because it forces them to think)

LARPs: I've chased LARP groups out of the graveyard near my house more than once. I hate them only because they don't respect the dead (or those that work during the day and SLEEP at night). You all don't have to LARP to play the game, I read the book. Sit around a table and eat pretzels like all other RPGers. Don't be afraid, it might develop your character and imagination to not run around at midnight and annoy all your neighbors and people who think you're in a dark section of the SCA.

Too expensive: For a book with no color whatsoever (and barely a system), it's as much as all the other RPGs on the market. Did I miss something? No color is stylish? That costs Extra? 

Munchkin Factor 3: You'll have at least 3 munchkins in your group if you play with 4-6 characters. These munchkins usually have goth tendencies. No offense to goths, but y'all force normal people to hate you. 

Game Mechanics are weak like a wet paper towel: the Soak die rules leave much to be desired, as two combatants could pound on eachother forever (I believe I had combat with 2 combatants last 3 hours once). The skills system is dumb, making a weak character able to do great things if he has enough of the skill.

Uncompatibility: All the WOD games CANNOT be played with one another. Mages are more powerful than Werewolves are more powerful than Vampires are more powerful than Hunters. Have fun you amalgamers!

We're Roleplayers!: The pompusness of Vamp players is quite annoying, since the system roleplays for them. Anyone could game Vampire. It's the same reason d20 has no respect with the game community elders (at least in my mind).

Finally, Suggestions: Don't play Vampire the Masquerade. If you really want a vampire game, upgrade to Vampire: the Requiem.  It's done much better than this tras
