Amos Oz, is in my judgment, one of the greatest contemporary writers. His memoir " A Tale of Love and Darkness" is a  literary classic of tremendous power.
However Oz is also a 'political prophet'. And often holds forth in a way as if to suggest he feels himself taking upon himself the mantle of his Biblical namesake. Here he should perhaps have been a bit more cautious and remembered the Jewish teaching that in our time 'prophecy' is given to 'children' and ' fools'.
In this small gathering of small works Oz reiterates his well- known analysis of the Israeli- Arab conflict. It is as he understands it a 'dispute over land' between two peoples each of whom has a legitimate claim. The fanatics on one side( A fanatic in Oz's term is one for whom every means even the most bloody justifies the end) are those who say ' all is mine, and nothing is the others'. The reasonable people of which Oz is as he understands it preeminently one( though he makes it clear he too was raised as a little fanatic in pre- Jewish state 'Palestine') understand that there has to be a painful, reasonable compromise. The end of fanaticism is as he understands it the end of the Arab- Israeli conflict. A divided Holy Land, two states, one predominantly Jewish, and one Arab. 
This analysis is of course not simply Oz's but has been the analysis of the moderate left in Israel, a good share of Western European Governments, and successive U.S. administrations.It now is the 'dream' of the vast majority of Israelis. It is on the basis of this analysis that US diplomatic initiatives in the Middle East has been conducted for more than half - a - century. 
The problem however is that the analysis is drawn along too broad, too symmetrical and at the same time too limited lines. It is not right to say that the conflict is 'primarily' about land. Such a position was more credible three decades ago, but today given the rise of a worldwide pan-Islamic movement , it  misses the mark. 
The truth is that what Oz calls 'fanatics' are the great majority on the Islamic Palestinian side. ( He denies this, but the recent 'Hamas' victory in the Palestinian elections suggests he is once again ' sweeting' Palestinian positions) . The fact is that there is no symmetry between the ' fanaticism' of the Islamic world and the alleged 'fanaticism' of the Jews even those Oz calls ' settlers'. There is no Jewish Literature no settler Literature calling for the extermination of Palestinians, as there is daily Palestinian and Arab propaganda calling for the murder and elimination of Jews.There has never been deliberate Israeli effort at murdering Palestinian civilians, while murdering of Israeli civilians is a generally accepted Palestinian tactic. 
Oz misleads and presents a false picture in harping on an alleged an unreal symmetry between Israelis and Palestinians.
One question of course is why he would want to do this? One answer is very simply that the kind of answer he gives makes a reasonable solution possible. Another answer is that it of course puts him above , makes him the good guy with the Europeans the Americans the Nobel Prize Committee , everyone else who would like to see the conflict resolved in this way. 
Perhaps what I have just said is unfair, though Oz's tendency to preach his own views becomes increasingly irritating as they diverge with the years from the 'reality on the ground'.
Had Oz' had a bit more honesty he would have given up certain familiar 'socialist egalitarian 'mantras of his  youth- and understood that there is a tremendous assymetry between the Jewish Israeli position and the Islamic Palestinian one. He would have had the honesty to understand that one very vast civilization, the Islamic, has a set of problems , which are endangering other human beings throughout the world. One such leader of that civilization , a leader who considers himself the great protector of the Palestinians, Mohammed Ahmadinejad has been continually threatening to wipe 'Israel ' from the map. 
Perhaps Oz's analysis on ' fanaticism' would have been more convincing had it focused on  Mr.Ahmadinejad and his ilk. 
i.e. Willy- nilly whether it likes it or not , Oz's country Israel is involved in the conflict of those who champion freedom and democracy against those Totalitarian- Terrorist- Islamic Regimes which would make the 'Koran' our sole bed-time reading. 


