This book presents an interesting thesis: Big companies should not try to produce radical innovations (ie, innovations that create a new market based on a new technology) but instead they should scale up the new markets and make money doing so. The authors support this position with two main arguments:
- It is not only difficult for big companies to create radical innovations, it is often contrary to their best interest and culture. Big companies have no incentive to change their markets.
- If big companies are not good at innovating, they are very good at scaling up markets (due to their existing relationship with distribution channels and customers).
Since most of the money in a new market is gained by scaling it up, big companies should focus on their strengths rather than trying to become more innovative.

This thesis seems to make sense. However there are many problems that are not properly addressed in the book. First, it is not clear how a big company is supposed to enter a market at the right time to scale it up. The authors provide only vague information on how to do that although it is central to make their suggestion work. The examples of big companies jumping into a market and scaling it up are not convincing. For example the authors cite Ford. But Ford did not just scale the market for automobile, it was a pioneer too. The authors do not provide clear examples of how a company is supposed to consolidate a market without being in it first. Second, the authors make an analogy with creative industries as a model for inventor/distributor cooperation. The model is sketchy at best. Why not study some real cases such as the recent cooperation in the pharma industry (eg, Imclone/BMS)? It seems that the authors did not invest the time to fully fledge and support their ideas.

The Harvard Business Review published an article in April 2005 about the factors that help or endanger first mover advantage. Among the factors are the speed of technology evolution (the higher the more likely a second mover with deep technical skills will be able to win the market) and the size of the market (the bigger the more likely a second mover with strong marketing power will win the market). The creative industry that the authors use as example belongs to the last category: power lies with the companies that have the marketing clout to push the movies nationwide. It is quite telling that a 10 page article does as good a job as this book at elucidating some of the issues with first vs. second mover advantage.

The thesis of the book is interesting. Unfortunately the supporting material and the practical advice are very light. I believe the book would have greatly benefited from less repetition and much more thourough case studies of consolidating companies. The book is a disappointment.

(If the authors haven't done their research they seem to have enrolled enough people from London to give the book glowing reviews. Read them with a critical mind.
