This book shows the dichotomy that exists in modern-day America between the cutthroat environment that supposedly exists in the private sector, and the easy-does-it culture fostered within the public sphere of schools, government agencies, etc...  The book makes the case that America's youth are basically coddled K-12, and end up playing catch-up during and after college when working in the free-market culture of the private sector.  

These conclusions have been elaborated on before in other publications, and are only true to a certain degree.  For example, the author gives examples of how Americans working in the private sector excel and achieve like citizens of no other country.  The author forgets to mention that nearly all the successful industries in this country, especially those that have gone to spawn copycats in other countries, were and are all supported and protected by government largess.  For example, automobiles would only be rich men's toys today if it were not for all those roads and parking lots built by taxpayers.  Another example, US agriculture would not have survived the Great Depression and become the world's leader in food produce if not for the introduction of farm subsidies, government-funded agricultural research, government-operated satellites and weather stations to monitor the weather, and other government programs that directly or indirectly help farmers.  These and other established, successful private industries would be nowhere without some "coddling" from US taxpayers.

Even if we dismiss the previous points, I believe the author has only shown half the picture; specifically, the author does not fully examine the question of why "coddling" occurs in schools and students are not prepared for the competition of the "real world".  The answer to this question connects the dichotomy so well illustrated by the author.  Specifically, American adults are so busy surviving in the private sector that they have less time and effort to raise their kids to be good competitors themselves.  For example, the character traits that makes for successful businesses: willingness of employees to relocate, works long hours, toeing the company line, etc..., are exactly the worse traits to follow when trying to raise kids well.  
Raising kids well means living in stable communities with low turnover - this means minimal relocation of employees by businesses.  
Raising kids well means spending time with them, and not spending long hours at work.  
Raising kids well means teaching them to stand up for what they believe in, not what their peers (boss, coworkers, etc...) want them to do.  

This then is what the author has totally missed out on in this book; an explanation of how the dichotomy between private sphere hard-nosed competetion, and public sphere cushion jobs came about.  Because of this omission, this book is merely commentary and observation, and lacks insightful thought
