After a night of passion with Gabriel Jones (the gentleman who had hired her to photograph his collection), photographer Venetia Milton is saddened to read that Gabriel has lost his life in a fire. Deciding to make use of this opportunity, Venetia poses as Gabriel's widow and moves her family to London, where she opens a new portrait shop. Imagine her surprise then when Gabriel walks into to drawing room many months later, very much alive. Apparently, someone wants access to some papers that they think Gabriel has, and he had pretended to play dead in order to discover who had tried to kill him. But now, with Venetia pretending to be his widow, Gabriel is afraid that the killer will come after Venetia. Venetia is stunned, and a little miffed that her plans have come crashing down around her; after all a live husband was the last thing she expected to have to contend with. But with her life, and potentially that of her loved ones at stake, Venetia will have to put her ire behind her and work with Gabriel. But can she? For Venetia has secrets that she'd rather not share, esp with the man she's so terribly attracted to...

I know that the last few novels by Amanda Quick haven't exactly been stellar ones --esp when one compares them with her earlier work "Seduction," "Scandal, etc. But there's always been something, even in her less than stellar works for one to grab onto -- a good storyline, good chemistry between the hero and heroine, suspense. This time around, however, everything seems very flat and very formulaic. The storyline is a variation of one that has been used a number of times, the chemistry between the hero (Gabriel) and the heroine (Venetia) is almost nonexistent, and the villain of the piece not only sticks out a mile (the villain might as well have carried a sign saying "here I stand, come and get me.") Who would have thought that there would come the day when I would actually give an Amanda Quick novel 2 stars? 

The shame of it was that the storyline, although it was much used intrigue/mystery subplot, had quite a bit going for it. However, while one can overlook the fact that an author has much used a very familiar subplot, slightly harder to overlook is the fact that the interaction between the hero and heroine in "Second Sight" lacked sparkle. From the manner in which the first few chapters unfolded, I rather thought that I was going to like Venetia quite a bit -- she seemed intelligent and very capable. But while, thank goodness, Amanda Quick did not allow her heroine to behave in an extremely foolish manner even once, she did make her seem rather obtuse at times. Gabriel, on the other hand, was easy to like and take to, even if his character was under-developed -- and really, one has little choice but to approve of a hero who possesses a sense of humour. All in all, though, this was a disappointing read: the historical aspect was mere wall papering (and although I realize that for many readers this is not a priority. I rather like a little more detail in these historical novels), the suspense was lacking, as was the chemistry between Venetia and Gabriel, and the storyline just lacked energy and vivacity. If you are a fan, by all means read this book, but be forewarned, it is nothing like her earlier works. If you've never picked up an Amanda Quick romance novel, than choose one of her earlier works instead (esp her "S" series), you won't be disappointe
