Alterman tries to deny the obvious left-wing bias of the media through fallacious arguments. For one, he compares complaints of liberal bias with complaints about media bias against minorities. In actuality, at one time, minorities were in fact seldom shown on TV, and then almost always in negative, stereotyped roles (e. g., black maids, Asian coolies). But those times have changed. Not so with the liberal bias. In fact, I sensed the liberal bias of the media even as a child, long before I knew what a liberal even was. I saw the constant glorification of hippies and those who protested the war in Vietnam, while there was complete silence on the cruelties of the Communists. At that time, I wondered why. Now I know. 

Alterman tries vainly to ridicule the expose of liberal media bias by stating that there would have to be some sort of conspiracy in order for there to be a bias. In actuality, since most journalists are liberals, no conspiracy of any kind is necessary for a liberal bias to exist. Liberals simply do what comes naturally to them. As it stands, when a new set of Democratic phraseology arises, it almost simultaneously is spoken also by members of the mainstream media. This proves that there is some degree of organized collusion between the media and the Democratic party. 

Every election cycle, it is the same. Every charge against a Republican is publicized, no matter how trivial. Democrats are coddled-unless their conduct is so egregious that it cannot possibly be ignored. Whenever Jesse Jackson opens his mouth, especially against Republicans, he gets profuse, uncritical coverage, no matter how racially inflammatory and baseless his accusations are. Conservative blacks get almost no coverage. 

Alterman tells us that "when it bleeds, it leads". Nice try, but this does not absolve the media of its left-wing bias. There is a double standard against violence. Violence against homosexuals is reported, while violence by homosexuals is not. Right wing violence (e. g., abortion clinic bombings) is demonized, while left wing violence is not. The persecution of Christians worldwide has received almost zero coverage in the mainstream media, because it does not fit their agenda of who a victim is. One can go on and on. 

