Yes, this book is put out by the "Research" unit for political economy, in Bombay, India.  But these folks did not do much research!  Instead, they simply ascribe the most outrageous motives to the United States any time we take action.

It is no surprise that in 1991, the United States took part in a multinational effort against Iraq in 1991.  After all, Iraq did invade Kuwait.  Now, Kuwait was hardly our ally.  In fact, Kuwait had sided with us in the United Nations less often than any other nation on Earth.  Still, the invasion by Iraq certainly provoked and merited this sort of response.  Of course, that's not the way this book puts it.  In this book, the entire liberation of Kuwait was simply an American, British, and Israeli plot!

Israel has never been able to get the United States to so much as put our embassy to that nation in Jerusalem (in the Western portion of the city, no less).  But in this book, we Americans are in a conspiracy with Israel to let Jews "colonize" what it implies is Arab land, and maybe to massively evict Arabs from this land as well.  That's not quite what is happening, of course.  The only systematic and thorough evictions we've seen have been of Jews, from Gaza.  And there may be more such evictions, of Jews, from parts of the disputed West Bank.

The authors say that it was plain to the world that Iraq was about to invade Kuwait when April Glaspie talked with Saddam Hussein shortly before the invasion.  But it seems clear to me that we Americans were genuinely surprised by the invasion.  Was it really plain to the world?  If so, to which world?  Was it really to this one, which happens to include India?

I think it is telling that the authors boast of a French plan to avoid attacking Iraq and instead have a conference at which it would be agreed that Iraq would get out of Kuwait in return for us (in effect) giving permission for Arabs to swipe some Israeli land.  Um, why would that have been a good "trade" for anyone? 

There is a section about sanctions against Iraq.  These sanctions may indeed have been a dubious idea, but they were hardly deliberate genocide!  And Iraq could have avoided these sanctions by complying with the demands on it.  In addition, Iraq could have made things much easier on its population even with the sanctions in place.  It's outrageous for this book to imply that these sanctions were simply a genocidal American scam.

The authors come up with even more nonsense when they discuss Arafat, a notorious thug.  Arafat's gang of thugs is considered to be the true representatives of a whole nation, or at least of all the local Arab population.  But that's simply false.  That gang existed primarily to fight against Jewish rights in the region, and that's not the same as being genuine representatives of the Arab people and promoters of the welfare of those Arabs.  And what does the book say about the aggression of Arafat and his gang against Israel?  Oh, to the authors, it is just an Israeli trick to try to delegitimize Arafat!  Once again, I wonder which world the authors think they live in.

Does America want to be an imperialist, colonialist, and genocidal nation?  Obviously not.  In a world at peace, our nation will do extremely well.  The authors of this book ought to have considered the possibility that America's people and Congress (and even our administration) are anything but imperialist, colonialist, and genocidal.  If the authors had wanted to do some real research on our reaction to aggression, they could have.  They could have determined some standards by which to judge what we did.  And they could have pointed out when we did things pretty much properly, when we made mistakes, when we reacted too strongly, and when we reacted too mildly.  But they did nothing of the sort.  Instead, they wrote some cheap and useless anti-American propaganda
