This book was read while I was in the mood of reading about great business autobiographies and trying to figure what leadership qualities you need to make a great company. Other books were the Gerstner book on IBM, Sam Walton's book on WalMart, Welch's book 'Winning', Jim Collin's book 'Good to Great' and 'Built to Last', Tom Peter's 'In search of excellence', etc.

This was just a terrible book in the middle of the above list. When I finished the book I was left confused as to how a guy like Iacocca could have been an inspirational leader. He's really pompous and takes credit for just about everything done by Ford and Chrysler (in retrospect they are still producing very average stuff compared to the Toyota's of the world and Chrysler died soon afterwards to be taken over by Daimler showing that he didn't achieve anything of lasting effect). Completely the opposite of the Level 5 leader that Collins talks about.

Next I think it's amazing that he could spend so much time just dissing his ex boss (no matter how terrible his boss was). It's not that I think Ford was any good but it seems immature to let someone else effect you to such a level that you are almost obsessive about harming him and his reputation. Iacocca claims that it's because Ford hurt his wife and kids but I think that's just Iacocca trying to make himself look like a good guy for fighting for his family's honour. Actually he's just bitter about the fact that he got sacked.

Finally I think the book has remarkably few insights about the auto industry. Iacocca seems to be a bit of an entitlist himself as he disses the Japanese for unfair trading practices without acknowledging just how superior their quality processes are. Compare this to Gerstner's book on IBM and this comes of distinctly second best. Gerstner's book gives a detailed description of the factors shaping the complex IT industry and why they made the choices they made and in particular how he went about turning the company around. As far as I can see Iacocca did not turn Chrysler around, he just begged convincingly for a loan from the government to stop his company going bankrupt and giving it a lease of life before the company was taken over eventually because of it's poor performance.

In fact after reading his autobiography (which has Iacocca on the cover looking remarkably smug and superior) I'm not surprised that Chrysler hasn't achieved much. Really surprising that he's regarded with such veneration
