Isabel Allenge's tepid trilogy finally ends in her third book for young adults, "Forest of the Pygmies." And it's fortunate that this was only a trilogy, rather than a series -- Allende's convenient magic, annoying characters and plodding characters make this a chore rather than a pleasure. 

Alexander and Nadia are accompanying Alexander's grandmother Kate to Africa, on an elephant safari. While there, Nadia and Alexander receive some ominous voodoo fortunetelling, which predicts that they will die if they are separated. Soon after, they encounter a European missionary who reveals that some of his brethren have vanished. 

So the gang sets out into the jungle in a plane -- only to suffer a crash landing. Stranded in the wilderness, they then learn that the missionaries are the captives of a ferocious military leader, who has also enslaved the native tribes. Now our heroes must singlehandedly set up their own "David and Goliath" fight, or face a horrific death. 

When the first book of this trilogy debuted, many readers were appalled at the sloppy storytelling that Allende had put into it. Apparently she doesn't think that younger readers will notice. Unfortunately, that sloppiness is still in her juvenile writing, making it seem that "Forest of the Pygmies" was dashed off over a long weekend. 

Deus ex machinae, preachy storytelling and absurd villains abound in this dull story. Unfortunately, "Forest of the Pygmies" is not just boring -- it's stretched as well. There doesn't seem to be enough plot for an entire book, so Allende fleshes it out with pseudo-mystical prattle, religious arguments and a bad acid trip. 

There's a faintly ridiculous quality to many of the things in this book, such as a scene where the missionary plays bullfighter with African wildlife, the adoration of the female sex, or the climactic "David and Goliath" duel. The evil enslaving villain is perhaps the silliest of all. It's not enough that he's evil -- he has to have a necklace of fingers too. 

It's also difficult to sympathize with know-it-all characters who suffer no serious doubts, struggles or difficulties. The smug, pseudo-mystical teenagers Alexander and Nadia are given convenient magic powers -- transformation, invisibility, speaking with animals -- whenever Allende gets them into a jam. They never get out of anything by brains or talent, only magic, and so it's difficult to care whether they succeed or not. 

Like the trilogy itself, "Forest of the Pygmies" ends on an awkward, sputtery note, with nothing of any note happening. Hopefully this will spell the end of Allende's ridiculous young adult novels
