Let us, as they say, cut to the chase. If author and former LA cop Steve Hodel's father really did kill Elizabeth Short (`The Black Dahlia'), the discerning reader certainly won't be convinced of it by this book. In laying out his case, Hodel starts with a monumentally flawed premise, then spirals into a chasm of conjecture and supposition which we're expected to accept as evidence. Hardly what one would expect from a retired homicide detective. 

And that flawed premise? Well, Hodel believes that a pair of pictures in his father's old photo album are of Elizabeth Short herself. The problem, as so many readers and critics have pointed out, is that they just don't look much like Short. Hell, the women in the two pictures don't even look much like each other! 

But as badly as it starts, Hodel's case against his father goes nowhere but downhill from there.  Rather than solid evidence, the author conjures wild theories that - perhaps in his mind alone - tie his father to Short's murder. Somehow, for Steve Hodel, his father's friendship with eccentric artist Man Ray adds up to a clue. Somehow a photo by Man Ray of Dr. George Hodel posed beside a bronze sculpture of an ancient god adds up to evidence that Daddy was a murderer. Or there's Hodel's assertion that Short's body was posed where it was found, arms above head to resemble - ready kids? - a famous Man Ray photo. (Isn't this how her arms might naturally have fallen, especially if her killer dragged or carried her by her wrists when he left her?) And, in a glaring inconsistency, Hodel reports that authorities were afraid to go after his father for the Short murder for fear of being exposed in scandal (as a VD clinic doc, Doctor Hodel supposedly had the goods on various local officials), but had no problem at all charging him with molesting his daughter in a high profile case just a couple of years later.  

There are other big inconsistencies and questions left dangling in Steve Hodel's book, too. Early on, he's stunned to find a picture of his former wife in the same photo album in which his late father carried the alleged Dahlia photos. But he'd learned YEARS earlier that his father had been in love with this woman. (Of course, he had been stunned then, too.) So why was it such a shocker to find her picture among his late father's belongings? Elsewhere, Hodel claims that he didn't find out his father had been on a list of Dahlia suspects until well after his father's death. But considering that one of the younger Hodel's partners in the LAPD had been assigned to the Dahlia case for a time, well, is this entirely believable? 

Whether or not Steve Hodel believes his own story, of course, is open to speculation. But despite the flimsy `clues' he gathers against his father, the author gives us ample evidence regarding the deep hatred he feels for his dad. There's his father's absence and eventual abandonment of his family. The alleged abuse of the author's sister at the hands of Dr. Hodel. The relationship between Dr. Hodel and Steve Hodel's first wife. Given the sheer volume of parental misdeeds reported here, Hodel isn't especially convincing when he writes of having a certain affection for his father later in life. Thus, the likelihood that this book is mere posthumous revenge seems fairly high. 

Perhaps some of this could be forgiven if Steve Hodel could at least make it all more compelling. As it sits, "Black Dahlia Avenger" is a meandering mess of a book packed to the gills with confusing side stories, digression and truly awful prose. Consider Hodel's description of his moment of (incorrect) recognition that the pictures in daddy's photo album are Elizabeth Short: "It was she. The Dahlia. The Black Dahlia." It's bad romance novel-level writing at its finest. Unfortunately, the rest of the book is nowhere near that hilarious. 
