In Mavericks of the Sky, Barry Rosenberg and Catherine Macaulay present the daring and heroic tale of the first set of air mail pilots in the world.  Mavericks of the Sky brings to life the many characters who risked their lives on a daily basis in order for the delivery of the mail.  The pilots of the United States Air Mail conquered the impossible task of transporting cargo on a regular schedule through inhospitable terrain and weather.  Unfortunately, an interesting topic becomes tedious due to poor writing and poor organization.
	
According to the back cover of the book, Barry Rosenberg and Catherine Macaulay are both professional writers who have made their livings writing for various magazines.  Having written for Aviation Week and Space Technology, Rosenberg is the only writer with aviation writing experience.  It appears that neither Rosenberg nor Macaulay has written a book of any length.  One particularly trying item is the authors' tendency to interject curse words into the exposition.  It is simply out of place in a scholarly and historical work to use words such as "hell" and "damn" to underscore a point.  Furthermore, Rosenberg and Macaulay do not even use the curse words to underscore a point.  The words only serve to detract and distract from the writers ultimate purpose - whatever that may be.

Mavericks of the Sky suffers from a lack of discernable purpose.  The authors possess a broad purpose of informing the reader about the United States Air Mail operation.  However, this is a wide topic and the authors address many topics that are outside of the purview of the history of the air mail system.  Rosenberg and Macaulay often stray from their supposed topic to enlighten the reader on postal history or the history of Belmont Park.  While these items may seem interesting in a historical context, the frequent digressions of the authors detract from the overall purpose and meaning of the book.  The scope of Mavericks of the Sky is far too broad.  While the title states that the book is about the "first daring pilots of the U.S. air mail," it seems that the authors meander through a history of the air mail whilst only mentioning the pilots when it becomes necessary in the storyline. 

In the end, it seems that Rosenberg and Macaulay cannot make a decision on which authorial voice they wish to use.  At times, the authors use a scholarly voice to discuss the heroes of the airmail.  However, at other times, Rosenberg and Macaulay opt or a more entertaining approach as if trying to make the reader laugh at seemingly innocuous details.  Early in the book, the authors recount the arrival of Lt. George Boyle at the airfield in Washington, D.C. the day of the inaugural mail run.  With President Woodrow Wilson present, Postmaster General Albert Sidney Burleson rushes to meet Boyle with a bouquet of spring flowers in hand.  Rosenberg and Macaulay interject with, "the sight of the notoriously terse postmaster general holding a bunch of spring flowers in his arms, trying to pass them over to man clad in all leather appeared awkward at best."  What does this statement mean?  Are the authors implying that Boyle and Burleson were gay?  Are the authors implying that Boyle and Burleson were homosexuals involved in sadomasochism?  While it is likely that the authors are simply trying to make light of a humorous occurrence, both the joke and the implication are irrelevant and improper in a work of historical non-fiction.
	
Rosenberg and Macaulay display a clear lack of understanding of their subject throughout Mavericks of the Sky.  Aviation, and specifically aviation history, requires an understanding of the dynamics of flight, the inherent risk involved, and the enormous sacrifice that all aviators must make to pursue the dream of flight.  Early in the air mail service, the authors describe the organization as "an operational nightmare reflecting a mere 78 percent on-time success rate."  Only fifteen years after the first flight at Kitty Hawk, a four out of five success rate does not seem so horrific.  Without the aid of instrument navigation, weather reports, or reliable aircraft instrumentation the aviators were lucky to arrive at their destination at all.  Most appalling of all, is the flippant terms and jokes the authors make several times throughout the book.  At one point, the authors refer to the air mail service as "Uncle Sam's Suicide Club."  In a book where the supposed main purpose is to inform the reader of the history of the United States Air Mail, referring to the sacrifices made by the heroic aviators so flippantly is preposterous.  To refer to an aviator and soldier's ultimate sacrifice for his country and his love for aviation as a "suicide club" is morally irreprehensible.  In the lengthy epilogue, the authors note that forty-three American citizens lost their lives in service of the air mail.  The authors commit an egregious violation of trust and simple good taste by referring to the air mail pilots as part of a "suicide club."
	
In conclusion, Mavericks of the Sky is an interesting topic that is poorly executed.  The authors continually sabotage their own attempts at proper writing through poor organization and poor writing.  The time of the United States Air Mail service is an exciting and interesting time in the history of America and the history of aviation.  Unfortunately, Barry Rosenberg and Catherine Macaulay have not done the aviators justice. 
