If the demon is in the details, then James R. Hanson's "First Man" has slain every demon in sight.  The real tragedy is that after 648 pages, we're left with a comprehensive timeline of Neil Armstrong's life, but with little insight as to the inner workings of the man himself.

Indeed, as the commander of the Apollo 11 moon landing mission, crewed by the "amiable strangers" of Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins, it was ironic that the closemouthed, enigmatic Armstrong was chosen to make he first step onto another planet.  Of the three, he proves to be the least interesting.  The ambitious Aldrin schemes and works the backchannels of NASA management, trying to be the first down the ladder, while the cheerful, irreverent Collins methodically goes about his business of flying the Command Module while his crewmates make the landing.  (Collins is also an author, and his "Carrying the Fire" is a much better account of the mission than Hanson provides here.)

Despite reams of information and hundreds of interviews, Hanson chooses to let Armstrong provide much of the commentary, which proves to be a mistake.  To the end, Armstrong remains the quintessential engineer, letting the data speak for itself, and offering only the most guarded of opinions.  It's clear that his fellow astronauts have opinions of their own, and when Hanson allows them to dish, the picture of Armstrong becomes more complex.  Indeed, the book would have been far more interesting with more colleague sound-bites and less Armstrong. 

Throughout Armstrong's NASA career, his managers and finally Hanson himself use him as a movie screen to project their own visions of Mom, apple pie, and the dream of beating those lousy Commies to the moon.  They hold him up as the symbol of America they want him to be, rather than the engineering near-savant he seems to become, all but cut off from any emotions of his own. Armstrong's divorce from his wife of 35 years is brushed aside in three pages.  The fact that he supposedly didn't carry anything to the moon and back for his wife and kids is passed off in a remark.

One could be forgiven after reading this book for believing that there was no room in the space progam for colorful astronauts.  However, the careers of the late extroverted, noisy Pete Conrad (Two Gemini missions, Apollo 12 landing, and Skylab), or motormouthed "Captain America" Gene Cernan (Gemini, Apollo 17 commander) would indicate otherwise. 

After the moon mission, it was Aldrin and Collins who took interesting steps of their own.  Collins wrote, worked in the State Department and later managed the opening of the wonderful Smithsonian Air and Space Museum.  Aldrin, crushed by his "second guy on the moon" status, battled depression and alcoholism before emerging healthy and sober as a vocal advocate of our continued presence in space.

And Armstrong?  He became a near-recluse, but not before briefly becoming a professor of engineering at the University of Cincinnati, roughly the equivalent of Tiger Woods taking a job as the resident pro at a public golf course in Fargo.  Rather than boost the space program which afforded him a place in history (an achievement paid for by you and me), he refused to "pimp", opting instead to delve further into himself. 

Through sheer volume of details, Hanson masks the fact that this hagiography is neither an enlightening nor satisfying look at the man who forever changed interplanetary travel.  Those old enough will always remember where they were the moment Armstrong set foot on the moon (and blew his line - it was supposed to be "one small step for A man..."), but you'll never discover the human being within the moonsuit from this weighty tome.
