It claims to be "the saddest story I have ever heard". Well, it is certainly not the saddest story I have ever read. Usually, sad things happen to good, thinking people. It is beyond my understanding how this tepid book can have so good a reputation. No doubt, adultery and the passions that surround it can be a great subject to write a novel, but the problem here is that characters are at the same time plain and unsympathetic. The trick, in my opinion, is that they pass for profound people, when in fact they are void, useless and jobless persons. The florid language in which the book is written gives the impression of psychological depth, but the truth is these characters have not much to search for within their personalities. Edward Dowell, the narrator, is the typical cuckold, unaware that his hypocritical wife is sleeping with another man -his friend, to make it worse- under his nose. Fool. Florence Dowell is a typical hypocrite (funny, they all seemed to me to be the "typical" something, which may tell you how profound I found them), an emotional blackmailer. Her husband gives his life to her, devotes himself to take care of her illness, and she goes and sleeps with a friend. And she's not even sexy or wicked or nymphomaniac. She's just an unfaithful common woman. Pig. Leonora Ashburnham is at the same time proud, detestable, arrogant and fool. She devotes her life to mend the fences broken by her irresponsible, philandering husband, who spends all his money on other women and gambling. Leonora is always there for him. Dumb. And John, well, John Ashburnham... Lucky guy. Rich, seductive, idle, always generous to easy women, always losing money and depending on his wife to talk to creditors. Always with nothing to do but seduce other women, including friends' wives. Pathetic loser.

The funny thing is, everybody knows what's going on but no one does anything about it, and later they all complain and are perplexed. Boring and despicable lives make, in this case, for a bad novel, representative of the worst traits of XX century literature. The ending is exhilarating by way of trying to be tragic and moving
