This is what the jaundiced Gould reader has come to expect: lively writing about interesting bits of natural history combined with dubious science, a clutter of pet hobbyhorses and the deconstruction & ridicule of a scientist whom Gould considers to be politically/socially incorrect.  The subject this time is Charles Dolittle Walcott, the discoverer of the Burgess Shale.  One may argue that Gould says some nice things about him, but some of them are by way of arguing that Walcott couldn't have made an honest mistake and must have been deluded.  On the whole, I am reminded of the experienced Senator's advice to call a foolish opponent "My learned and distinguished colleague."

I find Gould tiresome, but since I keep coming across criticisms of him in other sources, I feel that I should read his original words before judging him.  I have yet to think that any of his critics was being unfair.  I recommend reading Daniel Dennett's Darwin's Dangerous Idea, especially the chapter "Bully for Brontosaurus" in which he reviews Gould's body of work.

It is easier to ask this now that the classifications done by Harry Whittington, Derek Briggs and Simon Conway Morris (hereafter W, B & CM) have been revised to something more like Walcott's, but why does Gould so readily assume that Walcott was wrong, and was wrong because of his psychology?  Given that Walcott apparently labelled his work as preliminary, and W, B & CM have the advantage of more specimans, and well as decades of improved techniques and further research, why assume that Walcott's family life affected his classifications?  And if Gould wants to maintain that one's political/social/psychological traits affect one's work, why doesn't he feel the need to vet W, B & CM?  Many of Gould's critics would agree that those traits can affect one's thinking, and would hold up one Stephen Jay Gould as a prime example.  Did Gould take his own biases into consideration in writing this book?

I ask the reader's indulgence if this paragraph is dull, but I am following Gould's lead, and this is something that he does a lot.  Gould spends pages fretting over insignificant inconsistencies between Charles Schuchert's 1928 obituary of Walcott and Walcott's diary.  Schuchert says that it was beginning to snow at the end of the Walcotts' 1909 field season, whereas Walcott's diary says that the weather was beautiful.  I think that it is a bit unreasonable to expect Walcott to rise up out of his grave to contradict Schuchert, especially since it makes no difference whether it was raining, snowing, or the sun was shining.  Further, Schuchert could be considered accurate if it had begun to snow in the Canadian Rockies, whether or not it was actually snowing on the Walcotts, or because he was being somewhat metaphorical, and meant only to indicate that it was the time of year when it begins to snow there, and therefore the season has to come to an end for safety's sake, even if exciting discoveries are being made. 

Unfortunately, this sort of one-track literalism or failure to consider alternate and sometimes more obvious meanings pervades Gould's work.   Looking backward, for example, one may speak of an evolutionary path, even if there was no path in prospect.   Gould is not satisfied to make sure his readers understand the distinction, no, he sees a wicked failing that he and only he can save us from.  He carries on about right and wrong evolutionary graphics, without considering that what is appropriate depends upon what one wants to show.  Wouldn't a chart exhaustively illustrating evolution have to be painted on the side of a block-long skyscraper?  Isn't describing the Burgess fauna as separate phyla kind of like calling someone a great-grandparent at birth?  In this society, fourth cousins would be considered to be only distantly related, but their great-great-grandparents were siblings.   I find it hard to believe that these specimans are actually more diverse than, say, a whale, a mosquito, blue-green algae, a salmon and a vulture.  Gould keeps saying that they are, but he doesn't produce much evidence.

I recommend that the reader see Derek E. G. Briggs' book The Fossils of the Burgess Shale and Simon Conway Morris' Crucible of Creation (also on the Burgess Shale) as well as his Life's Solution.  In the latter, Conway Morris disagrees sharply with the conclusions that Gould reaches in his last chapter "Possible Worlds"
