This is the third book by Peter Singer which I have read and therefore I knew what to expect - arguments propped up with poor logic yet nonetheless presented to the reader with the tone one would expect as if Singer were repeating the obvious for the umpteenth time.  Yet like the man who just has to take one last whiff of spoiled milk before tossing it down the drain, I found myself reaching for ONE WORLD on the book shelf to get Singer's take on globalization.  I usually am not such a glutton for punishment but I guess the human psyche is funny that way.

The biggest problem with ONE WORLD is the same as with all of Singer's writings.  He assumes that the big questions of ethics, over which some of the most brilliant minds in history have pondered, have all been resolved.  And, of course, they have all been resolved in his favor.  The result is that Singer presents ideas that actually require intellectual defense as axiomatic starting points from which he begins.

One need only to examine the introduction to see this. The very first page of text states that national leaders either view things from the perspective of national self-interest or they view things ethically.  Nice false dichotomy, huh?  Even if one agrees with Singer's conclusion, there are numerous views of ethics that point in the other direction.  Some would view a self-interested or national-interested position as good in and of itself.  Others would argue that a non-global view actually benefits more people worldwide through the beneficial interactions between parties and because anyone thinking globally would have far too many factors to consider for any decision and therefore would create mischief through unintended consequences.

Also in the introduction, Singer asserts that the United Nations is the only institution that may legitimately project force in the international arena specifically because any nation may join.  He contrasts this with an institution such as NATO which has specific requirements for membership.  Yet once again, Singer does nothing to address the possibility that perhaps ethics points in the other direction, i.e. because any nation may join actually gives the United Nations less authority than a selected group of free states in which membership has its requirements.

Such faulty premises riddle ONE WORLD's treatment of issues both large and small.  Singer supports the International Criminal Court and criticizes the United States for not signing on without any analysis as to the U.S.'s unique position as the world's sole superpower and how this might be a solid and justifiable basis for the U.S. to follow a different path.  After all, most countries are not able to project their militaries globally and few are asked to do so.  To compare their actions with those of the U.S. seems rather specious.

Singer advocates - uh, I mean ethics dictates - a significantly higher tax rate on people in wealthy nations.  The economics behind this are not discussed nor is there any meaningful discussion of how economics and ethics might intersect on this issue.  If lower tax rates produce more overall wealth due to expansion of the economy (which, by the way, is the case), then any ethics worth its name should advocate such.  This would produce more money for those in affluent nations while providing poor nations an impetus for changing inefficient economies.  Singer attempts to get around this by focusing on poor people rather than on poor nations and stating that these people need help now.  Maybe so, but so will their children and their children's children, etc. etc. etc. until systematic changes are put into place.  Singer's ethics would prevent this from happening.  Examples of such sloppy thinking and inferential leaps go on and on throughout the book.  

Singer even fails to properly support his apparently boundless enthusiasm for the United Nations.  Although he acknowledges that the U.N. needs reform, his discussion of this is anemic.  He suggests that the U.N. should refuse to recognize any government that rules without the support of its people but fails to explain how this differs in any meaningful way from a collection of self-selected states, such as NATO, which he has already deemed inferior to the U.N. on the specific ground that the U.N. is open to all nations.  No mention is made to numerous U.N. scandals over the years.  

Nor does Singer address the U.N.'s rather pathetic history of negotiating relationships between its members.  What does it say that the one single nation which has had the most U.N. resolutions passed against it - Israel - is a free, liberal democracy that guarantees free speech, freedom of religion and civil rights to all of its citizens regardless of race or ethnicity?  Are we really to believe that Israel's neighbors have better track records with respect to human rights?  Of course not.  Yet no other Middle Eastern state feels the lash of the U.N.'s whip like Israel.  Singer does nothing to address either this specific issue or, more importantly, the larger issues about how the U.N. functions that this example illuminates.

Singer is so blind in his devotion to the U.N. that he writes, with respect to Kofi Annan sitting by while a genocide was taking place in Rwanda, that Annan has learned from this situation.  Let us put aside the uncomfortable argument that there is little evidence to support the proposition that Annan has learned anything.  Instead, let us focus on Singer giving Annan what amounts to little more than a slap on the wrist while harshly criticizing the United States for taking military action that has a verifiable track record of destroying tyrannies, freeing millions of people and setting up the foundations for free, independent governments.  Like to hear it or not, more people in this world are free because of U.S. military power than because of any other single factor.  What could possibly account for this discrepancy other than a results oriented approach, i.e. Singer gives Annan the pass because Annan's aspirations of one world government are consistent with Singer's own?

Not surprisingly, the United States comes in for heavy criticism in ONE WORLD.  It is telling that Singer feels the need to employ verbal inflation about the U.S. "dominating over" and "ruling" the rest of the world.  But Singer's criticism of the U.S. depends on one buying into his views.  As I do not, I point to Singer's criticism of the U.S. as evidence that the U.S. is doing things basically right.  It will be a sad day in America if its foreign policy is ever complimented by Peter Singer.
