The 1991 "Our Game" is a standalone post cold war spy story by that British master, John LeCarre: and he's written several memorable spy stories, such as "The Spy Who Came In From The Cold," and the Smiley/Karla trilogy.  This book exhibits some of his virtues as a writer: unsurpassed spycraft, strong set piece openings, and closings; plots that might keep a reader up way past bedtime, sharply drawn characters given snappy dialogue, and engrossing narrative and descriptive writing.

The book opens on Tim Cranmer, forcibly retired British cold war spy; luckily for him, he seems to have more than his share of wealthy relatives,enabling a comfortable retirement as a landed winemaker.  He has acquired a beautiful, much younger mistress whom he keeps in luxury.  And he's been able to place his oldest friend, Larry Pettifer, a friendly rival since Winchester, the elite public school(as the English call it; we call them private schools), and the elite unversity, Oxford, in a job nearby.  Mind you, Pettifer was also one of the deskbound Cranmer's spies, or joes, as Le Carre calls them; he was also a double agent, working for the Russians as well.  Yet there's nobody the cold Cranmer has ever been closer to.

Suddenly, Pettifer disappears, taking with him Cranmer's young mistress Emma. (He tells Cranmer:" You stole my life, I stole your girl.")  Cranmer soon discovers that Pettifer has committed himself to a new cause, for which he's taken with him $37 million Russian that he wasn't entitled to.  Cranmer also soon realizes his former employers at the spy shop suspect him of complicity in the theft; and, what's worse, a ruthless Russsian mafia does, too.  So Cranmer goes on the run, to Paris and Russia, remembering his helpful spycraft all the way, as he looks for Pettifer and Emma, while trying to avoid the parties looking for him.

At one point Cranmer muses: "He /Pettifer/ has been goading me about my indifference to the world's agonies....I have said that I never considered myself responsible for the world's ills, not for causing them, not for curing them.  The world was in my view a jungle overrun with savages, just as it had always been.  Most of its problems were insoluble....I have said that I have always been, and would continue to be, prepared to make sacrifices for my neighbours, compatriots, and friends.  But when it came to saving barbarians from one another in countries no bigger than a letter on the map, I failed to see why I should throw myself into a burning house to rescue a dog I had never cared for in the first place."

Now,unfortunately, readers who find that speech resonant, who perhaps are even saying to themselves some variation of: "Right on, brother, couldn't say it better myself," will have a problem.  Because, for reasons never made entirely clear, Cranmer will suddenly pull a 180 in his beliefs, grab a Kalashnikov rifle, and run off to try to put the world to rights himself.  For such readers, this book might not be the best place to start reading Le Carre.

