Homeland was a decent enough start to a promising trilogy and this continues on a similar pathway. The cast of characters from the first book returns in force and Exile introduces a few new less than stellar characters along with a few new cool races and creatures. 

The book picks up a few years after Homeland left off with Drizzt leaving his homeland and living in the darkness of the caves for the past few years. The majority of the story deals with Drizzt dealing with a new 'hunter' side of himself while escaping from his mother who is now pursuing him with increased fervor. Along the way, Drizzt meets a few new allies. One, a Svirfnebli introduced in the first book and also a pech which has been transformed into a hook horror by an evil wizard. As with the first book, there isn't too much of an attachment to any of the characters so when one or two leave, you don't really mind. The book also introduces a few new interesting races and creatures which stand in the way of our heroes at various points in the book along with a bigger villian with whom Drizzt has a showdown at the book's zenith. 

However, Exile has the same problems as Homeland. The world and creatures are all very interesting but there isn't much depth to the story. The returning characters don't really get a lot more development, and the new characters seem just like filler to add someone Drizzt can talk to besides his panther with an unpronounceable name. The setting this time is a bland, boring cave with some interesting creatures dispersed at various points in the story. The action sequences are still well written but seem to drag on a lot more than they did in the first book. 

If you enjoyed the first book then you're sure to enjoy this one as well because it provides the reader with more of the same. If you didn't think much of the first then avoid this one because you'll probably dislike this one even more. It does the same things the first book did well but does more things worse. The new characters don't really add much to the story nor is there an emotional attachment to either of them. The story itself is very predictable. It moves from point A to point B in a very straightforward manner without a lot of surprises. It's still a pretty fun, quick read but there just isn't much to it. I'll still read the third book just to finish the trilogy but I don't know if I'll continue with the Drizzt Do'Urden story arc.
