Ehhh... I'm just not real impressed with this one.  First of all - splitting the larger sun sign categories into subgroups is kinda nice, but also kinda vague.  It's essentially a re-working of the standard sun sign stereotypes, and if you're interested in astrology at all, you know them already.  Don't get me wrong - it's not *bad.*  There's no wrong information, it's passably accurate (for astrology.)  I can see how it would be very helpful for those on cusps, and even for the rest of us, it's occasionally got some new info (this book, for instance, is the first one to accurately point out some quieter aspects of my personality that go against the Aries norm.)  It's just not enough to get excited over, and most people will get the same level of accuracy or better by just going whole hog and getting a star chart done.

Secondly, and more irritatingly, the actual relationship pairings were astonishingly scattershot.  I think it would have been easier to deal with if they'd ALL just been laughably wrong, but no - after slogging through, say, 4 or 5 descriptions that could have been describing total strangers (because they certainly weren't describing me and my people), I'd hit upon something like "Confidential Projects," which was just a spot-on explanation of the vibe between me & my brother.  What do you do with a book like that?  (Also?  As has been noted by other reviewers, the book really is amazingly negative about almost every relationship pairing.  If I were to take it seriously, I'd be huddled in the corner now, wide-eyed, whimpering "nobody loves me and I have no real friends!"  Sheesh.)

It leads me to one of two conclusions: 1) it really is scattershot - they're just throwing it at a wall and seeing what sticks; or, 2) they're actually on to something, but haven't worked out all the kinks yet.  Which wouldn't be too bad, except that it's being published as a finished product, you know?

Final recommendation: pass.  If you're reading for entertainment, there are more entertaining astrology books out there; if you're a serious student, there are more thorough and accurate books.  If you've got money to burn and don't mind weeding through the stuff that's superfluous and the stuff that's just inaccurate to find the few true additions to this field that this book makes, it might make a decent addition to round out a library.  Just please don't be fooled into thinking this is the be-all and end-all of relationship astrology
