Imagine the most boring person in the world telling you about this "erotic" dream he had.  As soon as he starts, you realize that to this guy "erotic" means "sensual" and he has a Medeival dread of his own sexuality.  He spends hours meticulously describing every pebble, every stone, every crack in the architecture, every flower in the gardens, every thread of the costumes worn by the armies of lovely (but "virginal") nymphs he encounters along the way.
Out of the 466 pages of the hardcover 2nd edition, there is action on approximately 75 of them.  The rest is lengthy and uninteresting description of the marvels Poliphilo sees in his dream.  Everything is described in superlative terms, and the figure is repeated so often you can almost sing along with Poliphilo:  "X such that was never seen/made/matched by Y."  Where X is the thing described and Y is an obscure allusion to classical mythology or European lore of a person or place famous for its association with X or items like it.  The classical allusions are so frequent and so obscure, the reader will need a guidebook probably twice as thick as the Hypnerotomachia itself in order to understand them all.
People prate of the beauty of this book, but ...  I won't deny that the book itself, as a physical object, is quite beautiful, and the illustrations are interesting (however the women who are described in the text as "beautiful" are drawn sort of doughy with double chins and chubby baby-fat limbs.)  But the average modern reader will not be able to slog through what must have been considered in the Renaissance to be an enchanting pageant of loveliness.  The ceaseless barrage of adjectives and the narrator's simpering reluctance to ever take any sort of action will frustrate most members of a 21st-century audience.
This book is not without its merits, which are the reason I awarded it two stars.  The first 150 pages are quite delightful, because things are actually happening in the story, the experience is still new, and the interminable tedium of the next 300 pages has not yet beaten the reader's brain into a catatonic state.  The sumptuous banquet at the court of Queen Eleuterylida is a memorable highlight.  There's an interesting scene right in the middle of the book, in which Poliphilo explores a ruined cemetery and reads epitaphs of unfortunate wights who died of love.  Numerous descriptions of pagan rituals are interesting, if not accurate.  The book is completely saturated with Greco-Roman paganism, which was a fad at the time it was written.
The act of reading the Hypnerotomachia can be rewarding in spite of, or perhaps because of its tedium.  I forged onward with the grim determination that I would finish this book, no matter what ... my eyes rolled in my head as I fought off sleep, hypnotic streams of uninteresting adjectives reducing my awareness to a dreamlike state.  I would read pages and afterwards have no memory whatsoever of what they had contained.  Strange ideas and mental pictures emerged which seemed to come, not from the book, but from somewhere behind it.  I found myself titllated by vivid erotic fantasies which seemed totally unrelated to what I was reading.  Was this some sort of magic, intentionally worked by the author of the Hypnerotomachia, or was it my subconscious mind desperately trying to entertain itself in the face of such monumental dullness?
I recommend this book for anyone interested in a non-chemical psychedelic experience.  But try to find it at the library, don't spend your hard-earned money
