I had previously read and enjoyed (I think) two of Logsdon's earlier books, At Nature's Pace and The Contrary Farmer, but I was barely able to get through this more recent contribution.  Logsdon is clearly  knowledgeable about a wide range of small farming and gardening practices.   There is much useful information in this book, particularly on mulching  garden beds, growing small grains, and using chickens in movable cages for  fertilization and insect control.  However, acquiring this information,  which is also available elsewhere, is a painful experience.  On almost  every page the defects in Logsdon's writing and thinking stand out.  He  makes absurd generalizations and broad pronouncements, on all sorts of  topics, based on what is clearly cursory, limited understanding of the  subjects.  A fine example of the latter is to be found in the last two  pages of the book, where he discusses the evolution of monarch and viceroy  butterflies, and the mimicry of the former by the latter.  His reasoning in  the course of making arguments is often nearly incomprehensible, and time  after time made me shake my head in disbelief.  One example (p. 126):  &quot;I do not believe in letting nature take its course all the time.  In  a world where one ethnic group of Rwandans hacked a million of another  ethnic group to death with machetes recently, I don't have the time nor the  luxury to debate whether I should kill a feral cat that is endangering a  rare species of songbird.  To make the point clearly [!], if I were a  judge, I could sentence a vicious human criminal to death under the  law--with fewer qualms than I feel when killing a poor dumb pest animal,  which is merely the victim of a situation that is as much my fault, as a  human, as the animal's fault.  But in either case I would act, not lie down  passively and let someone else make the decision.  If this sounds  unconscionably brutal to you, try arguing the passive-resistance viewpoint  with a brood of termites under or house or a panther eying up your  child.&quot;  I just can't follow this.  Other, shorter instances abound,  as Logsdon draws from his misunderstanding and fractional knowledge of  history, ecology, evolutionary biology, and other areas to offer up his  opinions on government, economics, sociology, religion, and so on.  His  writing is also marred by pointless and foolish parenthetical asides, and  corniness, as when in the space of three pages in the last chapter he  refers six times to his wife as &quot;my lovely&quot; (e.g., &quot;My  lovely found what appeared...&quot;). Other readers seem to enjoy Logsdon's  self-proclaimed stance as &quot;the contrary farmer,&quot; and I am  certainly on the same side as he in the struggle against destructive  agribusiness and the global hegemony of ruthless corporations, but  (obviously) I cannot recommend this book, which is poorly written and seems  not to have had the attention of an editor
