I bought this book to get a better understanding of hormones. I was disappointed to find that the argumentation was shallow and almost entirely based on "Actual Case Studies". The most important thing I was reminded of from reading this book was how the pharmaceutical industry makes more money on synthetic hormones and other drugs than natural substances because natural substances cannot be patented.

As a physician, the author treats adverse symptoms and disease with natural hormones (though it is unclear whether all the hormones he mentions exist in natural form, such as melatonin, pregnenolone and growth hormone). The author does emphasize "physiologic" doses and warns against "pharmacologic" i.e. too large doses. Yet, because of lacking citations, I am not convinced that administering even physiologic doses improves health in the long run.

A good thing about the book is that the author shares his observations about hormonal status in ill patients, for example that he has "yet to see a patient ill from cancer that does not have a decreased growth hormone level." (Though the preceeding sentence is actually somewhat contradictory to this: "In my experience, most patients with cancer have suppressed growth hormone levels.) (p.164-165). I found these observations interesting, they certainly point out the important role of hormones in health.

Especially one mistake dented my confidence in the author. On page 162 he refers to the Rudman study on growth hormone (results after 6 months) without mentioning that more than half of the participants had to discontinue growth hormone administration due to serious side-effects after one year. Generally, the author doesn't thoroughly discuss the long-term effects. One becomes dependent on the hormone(s) because when no other lifestyle changes are made, symptoms will, as the author mentions, return when stopping to take the hormone(s)).

While the author illuminates the role of hormones in health and departs from the conventional drugs, he does not show a great understanding of how to enhance one's own hormones naturally rather than administering them. For example, he mentions that 30 minutes of aerobic exercise per day is good for enhancing growth hormone levels, without considering that resistance exercise is significantly more effective (and in many people, low-intensity aerobic exercise may not affect growth hormone status at all). Clearly, although administration of physiologic doses of natural hormones may be helpful in many cases, we ought to be aware that we can do a lot to enhance our hormonal health and thereby our health without the risk of side-effects and long-term complications. Before following the recommendations in this book, therefore, I urge you to read Natural Hormonal Enhancement by Rob Faigin
