I truly wish I had not read this book. I used to love "Mike and Mike in the Morning," but my view of Greenberg has been so damaged by this superficial, shallow, clueless piece of garbage that I have found myself unable to stomach listening to him anymore.

Greenberg obviously plays up the apparently oxymoronic "metrosexual sportscaster" angle, setting a defensive tone early regarding his abilities to discuss sports despite having fabulous taste in clothing, travel, and fine dining. Fine, this is a play on his on-air persona, no problem.

But when he tries to become "everyman," Greenberg demonstrates that he is as out of touch with the common populace as the athletes he covers are (or as Paris Hilton is, hence the title of this review). This is also why his Seinfeldian approach fails: Seinfeld found the common irritants we all face, whereas Greenberg complains that his wife left him alone for a week to raise his children...with their nanny. Excuse me? Are we supposed to chuckle knowingly that he now has to parent two small children with professional assistance? Sorry Greenberg, most of us would actually be single parents in that situation, not pretending. Similarly, he tells a "funny story" about his son's first word being a curse, but it is set up by sharing that this happened in Aspen, in a chalet with cathedral ceilings and chandeliers ("How do they change the lightbulbs in those things" he wonders increduously, as we all do when vacationing in Aspen in gorgeous chalets). Oh, and what used to be six people is now "three couples, three nannies, and seven children." This kind of unnecessary, extraneous detail--which is prevalent throughout the book--reinforces how different he is from me, how unrelatable his experiences are to mine, and breaks any sense of community that good writers are able to develop. For example, he also repeatedly discusses his neighbors--billionaires who throw lavish parties, give him cases of his favorite Vodka, and fly him to Florida in a private jet. Greenberg shares that, if given the option, there is no better way to fly than on a private jet. Thanks for the tip, Greeny, I'll get right on that.

Coupled with his repeated references to $100 ties, Prada backpacks, and expensive clothing, Greenberg comes off as an arrogant, superficial, spoiled little rich brat. His obvious lack of appreciation for what he has, coupled with his assumption that he has anything of relevance to teach a larger audience about parenting ("You cannot get snot off a cashmere sweater" as but one example), makes me view him as completely undeserving of his success and not wanting to contribute to it in anyway. You think your life is hard because your daughter threw up on the tile floor in your spacious kitchen? Try wondering whether you'll have money to pay your bills next month. THAT'S stress.

The title of his book references his belief that ALL women think their husbands are idiots; it's his grand insight into relationships that I guess is supposed to convince us he is thoughtful and has some depth of character. Sorry Greenberg, most women I know--including my wife--have respect for their husbands. Your wife thinks you're an idiot because you are one.

Just like Paris Hilton.
