I first came across the subject of remote viewing one night as I was switching tv channels and found a show about "psychic spying".  Imagine my shock when they showed a picture of my own company, SRI International! I've always been interested in anything exploring psychic phenomena, but to learn that this type of research was started at my own company in the '80s was exciting stuff indeed. 
 
The next day at work I learned there were still people here who remembered this program and the scientist who started it, Hal Putoff (not sure of last name spelling).  Some of my coworkers said at the time (of the project's heyday) they experimented with lots of employees, sometimes they'd put a bunch of regular folk in a giant room and give them coordinates to see if anyone could "view" them. Needless to say, scientists are a hard crowd and many found it amusing if not silly.  Physicists I know who worked with Dr. Putoff said the army eventually took over the project. This is told in the documentary I mentioned above. Dr. Putoff was also interviewed in the tv show and so were many others including some of the remote viewers.

So I was thrilled when this book, "Psychic Warrior" was published.  I had hoped it would have tons of more information about what the project was doing now. But then I read it, and was utterly disappointed.  Like "Linus" the reviewer above I think this book was poorly written and the author is completely full of himself.  His constant grandstanding and egomania makes this very hard to get though to the interesting parts about the actual remote viewing.  

Also I wonder about how someone can work on a top secret project and then write a tell-all book about it.  Perhaps the author made a deal to embellish certain parts of his story so it wouldn't be taken too seriously.  Either way, if you think you can wade through all the boring garbage about his home life and how great he is, you might possiblly learn a little.  But I can't recommend this book as a tool to help you get there
