I found this book to be horrible. It puzzles me how this book could be a product of a professor of history.  His chief failings are as follows:   (1)	He fails to use footnotes.  I find this to be inexcusable for a serious scholar.  He wrote a number of things, for example, that I found to be unbelievable, but because of his failure to provide proper citations, I was unable to follow up and double check him on his work.  Just one example: he wrote on page 22 that "50 percent of eighteenth-century New England brides .. were pregnant at their wedding[.]"  This is not something that could be known without extensive research.  I'm not aware of any statistical surveys or census information that could verify such a claim.  I don't think this kind of information would be found in church marriage records.  Did someone do an exhaustive study of personal diaries and make a statistical inference?   Academic protocol demands a proper citation, and he provided none. (2)	His organization was lacking.  This is a time period in which I have recently completed a number of readings, and yet I, at times, had a difficult time following where he was going, or ultimately what point he was trying to make.  At least I understood many of the specifics of events he alluded to, but a reader unfamiliar with the events would be lost.  In my opinion, he lumped too many things together, causing the reader to feel at various times like he was jumping all around chronologically and geographically and, at times, topically. (3)	I think the title of the book is misleading.  It is less a history and more an essay on how the author views the interplay between the political events of the day and the social dimensions.  Many of his points were lost on me.  For example, he develops the idea that early Americans lived in a violent world.  Well, so?  Who didn't know this?  Violence pervades most of history.  If I were his editor, I would have tried to get the author to focus more on what he was trying to do with this book.  Did he want the book to be a history book, a social essay, or what?  Anyone wanting to gain a fundamental history of the time period would be well advised to avoid this book.     Finally, I hate to be so negative for there is some good content, but I would only read this book if you are already well read on this time period and have nothing better to do, or if you are a professional academician with interest in this field. And for those of you who teach a history course on the American Revolution, please don't inflict this book on your students. For those who do not fall into those two categories above and you would like to read good history on the American Revolution, I recommend the following:  for the period up to and including 1776, Merrill Jensen's "The Founding of a Nation," for the time period of the Articles of Confederation, Merrill Jensen's "The New Nation," and for the Constitutional Convention, Forrest McDonald's "Novus Ordo Seclorum" and Catherine Drinker Bowen's "Miracle at Philadelphia." I am not well read enough on the war itself to make a good recommendation
