This book appears to be a compilation of pamphlets from 1919 to 1949 by "The Tibetan" communicating clairaudiently with Ms Bailey. Opinion seems to be divided as to whether books such as this are works of great spiritual value or are Satanic works connected with the "New World Order".

The world according to "The Tibetan" appears to be governed by someone called Sanat Kumara (obviously, a slight shuffle of the letters changes Sanat to Satan), who is also known as "Ancient of Days", "the true Light of the World" and "the Eternal Youth". Supposedly leading to him are "the One Universal Church", "the sacred inner lodge of all true Masons" and the "inner-most circles of the esoteric societies". The masonic movement is described as "a far more occult organisation than can be realised".

There are some controversial statements to be found within these pages: fascism and communism are described as "great world ideologies" (p126); "reincarnation is a basic law of nature" (p232); "the Axis nations need to grasp the teaching of the Buddha, Lord of Light" (p359); Gandhi is described as someone who "brings into clear perspective the uncompromising fanatical attitude" and who "would precipitate civil war in India" (p368); "the Jews should recognise the Christ as the messiah" (p545). Possibly worst of all are the statements that "the Japanese nation must go back to the nursery state" (p428) followed by a comment on page 491 that "the release of atomic energy in connection with the bombing of Japan" was "the greatest spiritual event which has taken place since the the human kingdom appeared". 

What else? "Schools of thought and world religions are to be blended into one" (p30), "Jews are to be integrated into society" (p77). The finale can be found on page 566: apparently "seeds have been planted for a 'final act of destruction' when humanity and Heirarchy are 'completely fused and blended'".

I found most of the book to be repetitive waffle about world peace, Masters, ashrams, service, etc. The "Heirarchy" is supposedly based at the "Great White Lodge on Sirius" and it would appear that the one world religion is to be a mix of Christianity and Buddhism.  

Atheism never appeared so attractive
