Amid the other glowing reviews, let me offer a different perspective.

First, I was a bit disappointed in the size of the graphics.  The book is only about 6 3/4" by 8 3/4", and the graphics and photos in many cases are difficult to see.  In the cases of copies of book extracts and magazine images, they are often nearly impossible to resolve.

More troubling to me is the overall "lean" of the book.  Expecting a fun book reflecting on images of the future, I was disappointed to read things like "The visual cacophony of the advertising-laden landscape was for him [Edward Bellamy of Boston in the 1880s]...the most palpable of symbols for the general depravity of the capitalist system."  

And how about this quote from the section on space toys of the 1940s and '50s: "Girls who yearned to project themselves into a fantasy future through their toys had few media role models beyond the stereotype of the hero's girlfriend.  The dual message to the younger generation seems clear enough--the future will be violent [too many space guns], and it will belong to men."

And here is how the book reviews the "Star Trek" series:  "Though the crew, with black Uhura and the Asian Mr. Sulu, seemed to reflect newly enlightened attitudes, the program, like its 1930 relatives, was dominated by brave white males."

In discussing the future of housing, the book diverges from any discussion of future technology, and instead offers:  "We ask whether the home of tomorrow will be inhabited predominantly by single-parent families, by working mothers and children.  Will it contain greater numbers of couples without children at all, couples of the same sex, or other groups of adults living together, and if so with what social consequences?"

And as a final example of the social messages of the book, how about these phrases from the section "The Weapons and Warfare of Tomorrow":  

"Although Americans have long cherished the myth that they are an unusually peace-loving people..."

"...just one more instance of the American habit of believing in that ultimate weapon, a technological fix, as a substitute for politics in eliminating world conflicts."

And finally:  "...it ironically symbolized the country's broader policy on Viet Nam, an effort to refashion a foreign environment better fit to American needs and expectations."

To my taste, the book has too many unnecessary social messages.  I was expecting a book on past visions of the future.  Instead, I got a book on technology laced with criticisms of capitalism, Amercianism, and political policies.  Those weaknesses cheapen what could have been a far more enjoyable publication.
