
Updated 6 Oct 2005 

Don't give this book to your daughters but to your mothers to remind them of the pampered life they lived while your father took all the risks and did all the hard work that allowed you to exist, survive and prosper! 

It is not news to anyone that womens work is largely unpaid or low paid and of low status because reproduction largely makes it impossible for it to be otherwise for mothers. That does not mean that women are bereft of vital skills and abilities that society depends on nor that women cannot transfer these skills and abilities to the public/employment sphere. It is an unfortunate paradox that the most able women are forced by their need for career/economic/self fulfillment to refrain from motherhood and therefore refrain from passing their abilities to the next generation. 

As for Farrell's manipulation of figures, anyone who knows anything about statistics knows how they can be used to prove anything and everything. 

The bigger question is why do societies value men over women? The answer is obvious - while women were busy full-time producing humans and doing most of the work that kept the social group going the men had the free-time to impose a value system, play politics, impose laws etc. This they did from their own perspective and naturally, in their own self-interest and because of their biology, they felt themselves to be superior to women. No logic - pure emotion based on the feelings their male hormones led them to feel and the fact they could always use physical force. 

In traditional societies people must have children in order to survive when old and/or sick. In modern societies people receive these benefits from the collective children of the society which means that people can avoid paying the costs of reproduction while still receiving the benefits. 

Is raising the next generation not the fundamental economic necessity of any society? 

Is it not ironic that mothers who carry the bulk of this work are impoverished because of it? And then are insulted by people like Farrell who tell them they are choosing a soft option in life and come up with solutions such as to not have children or to chase after a tiny number of jobs that may pay better and may fit in better with raising children. 

Don't we all depend on the future generations being raised by mothers who are not penalized both at home and in the workplace? Is it really so strange to believe that the wealth people produce should be distributed more fairly to those who produce the people in the first place? 

As more and more women choose paid work over unpaid reproductive work we are at some time going to be hit by the fact that there is no one to employ or sell to if there are no people in the first place. Nor to care for us in our old age. 

So, just how important is reproduction compared to everything else? If we have a world where women are devalued both as mothers and as full humans who need to participate in the workforce and public sphere and paid accordingly then the cost of reproduction may well be the cost that women will not pay. 

I suggest people should read more widely about economics such as Nancy Folbre's far more sophisticated 'Who Pays For The Kids?'. I also suggest that men try to be less emotional about 'women' and recognise how self-interest has coloured their beliefs about what males and females are capable of and are worth. 

Men are not 'dying for women and chidren' any more than men ever have. What men do is 'kill' in competition with other males so they can sexually exploit as many women as possible and impregnate them with their own genes. It is self-interest and if women ever benefit it is incidental to this self-interest and not the cause of male behaviour. 

Women who mated with 'starving artists' are nobody's ancestors - their children would have died before puberty. Dr Farrell cannot seem to grasp that leaving descendents required females to choose mates that provide resources - just the same as males need to choose females that have eggs and 'mothering potential' and therefore mostly under 35. 

As for the Australian study showing women as full-time caretakers being the 2nd most fulfilled people - it is strange, then, that Australian women are producing so few children and are being given financial incentives to breed - as are many European countries. The US is just at replacement level but dropping. 

This book could soon be irrelevant because the need for women to both breed taxpayers and to be taxpayers will make women's work worth more. 

There is absolutely nothing new in this book and it has not tackled the fundamental problem of why men believe themselves to be worth more than women and why people who make people are so much poorer than those who don't. Nor does it recognize how reproductive and productive work serves both sexes and should not be used to segregate the sexes with women getting the bad deal. It paints male self-interested activities as heroic and the female's reproductive work as a gentle hobby that has no economic value in itself. 

If men and women are how Farrell tries to paint us then it would seem to be illogical for women not to just enjoy their easy lives and gaze, starry-eyed, at the wonder of men. Or perhaps farrell is far more phallocentric, obnoxious and illogical than he thinks himself to be?


