I've given this two stars because when people give only one they get thrashed for not reading the book by people who didnt actually read the review, and I'd like you, dear reader, to finish this, if you please. I caught hell from someone I dont know for writing an unfavorable review of a P.I.G. book I hadnt really read for promoting a view of women role in the world that I find morally reprehensible and being glib about it at the same time. He seems to want specific incorrect statements from the book to be addressed, so to wit, I will attempt to satisfy that requirement.
In this review of a book to which he wrote an extensive and glowing review himself, I will try to avoid interjecting my opinion and attempt to cite the book directly to show where I have problems. The first area isnt even in the book per se, but the inside flap, where the book thanks the lord above for the presence of mind of wise and powerful Tom Bethell, destroyer of teh 3vil librul:
"Here's a handy one-volume guide to some of the most contentious issues of our day, including: ... Why species are increasing, not disappearing ... Why Darwinism is crumbling ... And much, much more"
Okay, so he believes "Darwinism" (read: any evolutionary theory developed since Darwins first observation of the Galapagos) is "crumbling" which means is wrong. Presumably he believes in Intelligent Design (belief being the operative word for a religious theory that has no objective proof from wich to glean first hypotheses) which states that all species of animal that there ever were and ever will be upon the earth were created at once... so... how can that number possibly be increasing? How, if there is no evolution to explain genetic mutations and diversity of species and survival of certain traits against others, how can we possibly be getting new species?
Well we can't, really. Even though I'm willing to concede his view of the first point, which is to say that there are basically more and more new species of animal every day, it doesnt mesh with the second in any way. I cant imagine the book offers any insight either, after all, why bother? The stated aim of the book is not to discuss science in objective terms, not to encourage debate, but to take science away from people he has political disagreements with. He doesnt like how liberals have "politicized" science, not because science shouldnt be politicized, but because he's the one who should be doing it. The sheer nerve of the man, whose only evident credential to any authority on science are his degrees in physiology and psychology, neither of which are particularly relevant to discussions about global warming, Galelieo, and Nuclear power, is staggering.
Why did I bother with the second star then? Because there are, in fact, some parts of the book that are true, are relevant, and are, in fact, politically incorrect. For example he discusses how Aids is more easily spread among homosexuals than heterosexuals. This is objectively true, and, arguably, "politically incorrect". There's also Hormesis, which is possibly the only Apolitical thing in the book, which discusses the counterintuitive fact of the world that somethings in small doses are good, but in large doses are bad. Radiation, for example, but to analogize very quickly just to get through this review, you know how if you drink a glass of red wine a day you get fewer heart problems, but also if you down five bottles of Thunderbird an hour you'll get violently ill? Basically like that.
My main problem though is first, that he treats these actual facts as being so revolutionary that your mind bust be like totally blown, arent you amazed?!?! Simple statistical review though shows the high incidence of aids among homosexuals, and as for hormesis, well, whose mother hasnt told them about "too much of a good thing" for instance? I mean its true, yeah, but its only an impressive thing to state to people who are unused to thinking objectively about the world around us, which is to say, people with only a passing interest in science. Second, the attitude seems to be that those facts compensate for the utter nonsense of the evolution chapters for example and the anti-stem-cell part (the conclusion of which seems to be "more research is necessary to find out what stem-cells can do, which is why we must stop all research) for entirely political reasons. This isnt an objective study of science and facts, but then it was never meant to be, only to suggest that it was. Bethell isnt interested in objective fact, only in pushing an agenda. If the facts coincide then he's happy, and if/when they dont, he can distort them to his liking for an audience of people that, he's sure, isnt bright enough to know better
