Having heard so much about how this woman was the queen of conservatives I decided to give her books a try. However after reading this, I will say, if this is how conservatives are then I feel ashamed to call myself one.
She touts on and on in the book about money, and how its every mans right to it yet no mention of how greed is one of the seven deadly sins.
she goes on and on about how ALL liberals lie and how they insult each other. A many conservatives and liberals alike have lied however I see her being hypocritical (As well as childish) as she throws petty insults around in this book non stop.

she speaks of how horrible people who choose abortion are and yet when people seeking an abortion see conservatives they see people trowing bombs at doctors and protesters yelling insults, not a gentle person to turn to for support and alternatives. No wonder they don't look our way for help! All the souls I have encountered and helped in this area are not people "just looking for birth control" but people who are confused, made a mistake (though jesus forgives our sins most cannot forgive themselves) and are in need of some guidance.

Whats worse is she puts everything as a generalization of the whole entire section. ALL liberals, EVERYONE. No type of people are ALL the same, no matter what term you may group them under, and this just shows more of her predjuidcice to spread hate. ALL liberals are not the same and good thing ALL conservativies are not the same as her.

Sharing your wealth and helping the poor is just as important as personal behavior. To turn  your back on the hungry is just as much a sin as anything you might do. 
Luke 12:33. "Sell your possessions and give to charity; make yourselves purses which do not wear out, an unfailing treasure in heaven, where no thief comes near, nor moth destroys."

What ever happened to "thou shalt not kill" 
Jesus chose non-violence, even as people threw stones at him he did not lash back, he did not return the stones, or attack others.
Jesus said "love thy neighbor" he did not say for oyu to judge and hate your neighbor, God will do that as each soul reaches the pearly gates.

I don't know where this woman gets her blind sighted views but they seem more damaging then helpful. This woman is only spouting hate and making a bad name for us, I'm sure God will judge her fairly and she won't like where she is going. Until then I suggest you save your money on a better book.
