If you'd like to enter Dennett's Fantasy Land of self-satisfied, materialist reduction then this is the book for you.  If, however, you're looking for a work by a philosopher who can critically examine and defend his own theories and presuppositions then this book will probably strike you as a monumental waste of time.

To be sure, Dennett knows how to construct arguments -- the problem is that they're question-begging arguments.  And unless you share Dennett's materialist presuppostions you're going to find almost every page of this book filled with question-begging naivet.

Dennett, of course, has his reasons.  He claims that Cartesian Mind-Body dualism leads to unsolvable problems, hence we should resolve such dualism in favor of the tanglible Body and think like good (that is, consistent) materialists.  (And never mind philosophy prior to Descartes -- especially Aristotle, for whom the word "body" necessarily implies an informing and organizing "soul" or "form".  Such a "form" is, in Aristotle's account, precisely the reason why bodies are organized and not simply inchoate matter.  But never mind all that.  Dennett isn't really interested in the history of philosophy, the meanings of words, or an opponent that isn't a straw-man.)

But, despite Dennett's insistence on materialist consistency, the book is plagued by an inconsistent double-think which brings back the Mind-Body problem in its full force.  We have (or seem to have) immediate experience of our own minds or consciousness.  Dennett encourages us to reductively translate such experiences into neural processes.  The problem is, that we have experiences without being directly aware of the neural processes that are correlated to them.  That is, what we experience is not a neural process.  We infer the neural process and assume its correlation to what we experience.  Hence, the correlation of a particular neural process to a particular experience is purely speculative or hypothetical -- or at least it's speculative and hypothetical when Dennett doesn't simply present such correlation as a dogmatic belief.  Such dubious correlation calls into question the validity of the Mind's reduction to (or "translation" into) the Body.  If such translation is purely hypothetical or speculative, then Dennett hasn't moved one step beyond Mind-Body dualism (his materialist rhetoric notwithstanding).

Or put it this way.  I have an experience.  Someone may use MRI to try to determine what neural processes occur during my experience.  That person is not going to know the contents of my experience (or mind).  For that, he or she needs to rely on my own immediate or immanent account of my experience.  In other words, the observer of my neural processes simply grafts my own immanent account of consciousness onto those neural processes and assumes their correlation.  Dennett apparently fails to see that such a procedure assumes the immanent validity of a Mind's immediate self-experience (contra materialism) and that he himself relies on this assumption in order to attribute significance to the observed neural processes.  

Basically, Dennett tells us that ordinary ideas about the mind or consciousness are naive.  He then proposes to replace our supposedly mistaken ideas with his own naive and question-begging ideas about Mind-Body correlation.

Bottom line: don't waste your time with this book
