The book began a bit slow with a detailed account of how the Crosbys managed through the Northridge earthquake of '94, a somewhat tedious description which left me wondering why I should care about this celebrity family's experience when the quake certainly far more impacted if not devastated other, "ordinary peoples'", lives. The read did "pick up" with heartfelt, detailed accounts of the days of Crosby's liver disease, his unfortunate incarceration, his meeting his son James, and other "inside scoops", including brief descriptions of Crosby's rock star days on board his sailboat with half-dressed or naked women all over the deck, all of which sparked enough prurient and otherwise interest in this reader to mostly patiently only endure much of the rest of the writing.

Unfortunately, the beautiful depths of Crosby's depictions of his and others' humanity way too soon devolves into rants against this and that, including the music industry in general, radio in particular, Bush and company, John McCain, and mostly tediously on and on with what ultimately comes across as mostly pompous, wordy opinionating. And no matter that I agreed with pretty much all his points of view, I was left wondering not only why Mr. Croz would let this work "go down there" but about the kind of ego which would presume/imagine this seemingly random opinionating made for good reading when a chapter ago he had me in the palm of his able hands. 

About his post-Byrds career, Crosby duly praises Graham Nash and Neil Young. But Crosby inexplicably lends Stephen Stills--arguably the musical artist most responsible for Crosby's name not fading into obscurity following Crosby's notoriously spotty tenure with the Byrds--not much more than a sourpus-sounding, "I don't know why anyone would want to work with Stills if they didn't have to".  Huh?  No matter how through the years Crosby's horns may have locked with Stills', Stills deserves a heck of a lot more than this callously dishonorable mention.  In "Since Then" and seemingly despite himself, Crosby devours his own credible and obvious humility, and I don't understand why, though I am no stranger to complexity which sometimes is read as frustratingly inexplicable inconsistency. 

But, it's Crosby's book, you know?  It's Crosby's thing.  Still, a little less grandstanding, a little more "Everyman", a little more heart, a little less agenda, and a little more credit where everybody who knows of Crosby knows credit is due, might have gone a long way.  While Crosby's lyrics are so pared down and wonderfully precise, too many times this book winds up feeling like some hurriedly patched-together work meant to satisfy a contract calling for a book with too many pages.  As an avid, but not a "no matter what" fan, I am left feeling this book could've been more than it is.  "Since Then" is not quite a blown opportunity; but as one who has known the feeling of being blown away by a David Crosby song, I don't mean to judge but I can't help but think this book isn't fit to be part this wonderful artist's life's work.  I wouldn't say David Crosby shouldn't write books, but I would definately say he can do better than this one. 

Rock on.
