The real problem of our time isn't what a terrorist believes, it's what he or she is capable of doing. A band of a few hundred or thousand terrorists can keep the entire world hostage if they are determined enough to seek, procure and use biological or nuclear WMD. Their justifications don't matter that much at all. 

This book argues that Al Quaeda's justifications somehow do matter; that they seeks to kills us (the west) for what we do instead of for what we believe in. Understanding what a group of murderous zealots may or may not be motivated by is important only because in understanding them we can more easily attempt to inhibit them. But the author insists it does matter for determining policy alternatives and he goes on to suggest that if we can't destroy Al Quaeda in al all out war we should consider trading in Israel's security and handing over the Arab world to Islamist instead of to Nationalist usurpers.

The problem with the arguments in this book is that they're too emotional; at many times one feels here is someone who is upset with the direction the war on terror has taken and feels his (minority) viewpoint within the CIA has been ignored, he has a 20 year long grump to express. He admits that his editor felt obliged to edit out many of the cynical barbs and yet plenty remain. 

Some of the points raised in this book are a stretch. Bin Laden's targets (The Great Satan and Israel) are dramatic abstractions to ordinary Muslims. The idea that it is justifiable to kill nonbelievers because they happen to be from Israel or the US (or Denmark for that matter) is not widely held at all. The author argues that vast numbers of Muslims are siding with Bin Laden's Jihad because it is their Muslim duty to protect the holy places from the infidels. That is nuts. The bible calls for Christians to stone the adulterers too, doesn't mean that any Christian in their right mind is actually going to do so. The author doesn't seem to have any feeling with 'reality' or 'the Muslim street'. His extremist notions are dangerous, if we were to wage the all out war vs Muslim extremism that he suggests we'd be seeing a revolution in Pakistan that could and probably would arm the faithful with nukes. 

He suggests two such nutty extremist alternatives: declare an all out war on islamic fundamentalism or seek a Munich-like compromise. But the war hasn't been lost; in Afghanistan the coalition has denied Al Quaeda their primary base of operations. In Iraq the whole Muslim world watched in perplexity and often delight as the Great Satan organized the first free elections there ever. While it's too early to claim the coalition is winning the war on terror, it certainly isn't being lost.

The author's compromise alternative isn't realistic either. Western support for Israel isn't a tactical decision, it has always been about protecting the Jews against forces that seek their extinction; one cannot disregard what happened in 1948 and how bad the 650.000 Palestinian Arab and how good the 850.000 Jewish Arab refugees were treated by their own people. One has to realize that the only Arabs that have democratic rights in the Middle East are the Israeli Arabs. One has to take into account how Arab regimes treat dissent (Hama, Syria, 1982) compared to how Israel handles it. Support for Israel in the west isn't a result of excellent Israeli propaganda, it's there for the same reason that the US maintained troops in Europe after WWII; it is supranational solidarity between those who hold similar values. Only armchair philosophers like the author are too jaded to see the validity of that argument.

One can picture the author sitting as a grumpy analyst at a CIA conference table, bitterly contesting the majority view. He himself admits he's not a hands on type of person, his views are scholarly and not very well honed by personal experience. That's obvious from this book. It's a bestseller only by virtue of making the Bush administration look incompetent.

The Bush administration doesn't need any help there. Some of the criticism is deserved; why go after Iraq? Why suddenly try the kind of social engineering (implant democracy) that conservatives have always decried? Certainly it was brave to try to bring democracy to a people who have suffered so long under various dictatorships and certainly those who understand the gesture (the Kurds) fully appreciate America's intent. But democracy doesn't work when there's no large educated middle class that wants democracy and the rule of law. 

We might be loosing the propaganda war for not understanding the romantic appeal of the lone religiously inspired warriors going against the huge a secular empire. Bin Laden is a hero like Che Guevara was one, a romantic with juvenile anti-establisment passions, that's why he's popular. He is winning that battle over the Muslim hearts and minds, and the western world plays right into his hand by trying to present a vast unified goliath force instead of being true to the its diverse, opinionated, free and openly  multicultural nature. We can't murder millions to kill a few, we can't sell out our friends.
