Anyone who has read Stephen Ambrose knows that precise historical accuracy is not the main focus of his writing. To the contrary, his aims seem to lie closer to promoting super-human efforts and painting people as heroes regardless of the body of evidence before him. This book is no different, with the subject matter not nearly as interesting as some of his other works such as Crazy Horse & Custer, or Undaunted Courage. In fact, Nothing Like It stands at the bottom of the list of Ambrose books that I have read, and possibly marks the end of the Ambrose literary experiment for me.

The issue isn't that he doesn't write interesting books. He sometimes does, though in this specific case it's highly questionable. The problem is that he doesn't engage in the accurate retelling of history. Now I'll be the first to admit that history is often times subjective. But there needs to be some sort of balance. Given the Union Pacific's duo of Durant and Dodge were highly corrupt and never paid their workers, it's hard to constantly laud these 2 men as heroes, as Ambrose often does. It would be more accurate if these men were painted as 2 of the first big time corporate crooks in America. The evidence is in the book, if you pay attention to it. To that end, I'll give Ambrose credit for at least divulging these facts, even if he does absurdly gloss over it by saying, "Boys will be boys."

Nothing Like It In the World tells of the fantastic struggle to bridge the country with an iron road, a feat that in itself is hard enough to conceive. Throw in the fact that this occurred in a time when slavery was ending and the country was divided by the Civil War, and the accomplishment becomes even more impressive. The feats of engineering and the sheer willpower of the Chinese and Irish workers (not to forget the Mormons) is mind boggling. Struggles against the weather of the high Sierras and a race against the competing railroad give us an interesting look at one of the most colossal feats in American engineering history.

But enough with the sensationalism. The men who financed and organized the road were crooks, much as today's Enron executives and Wall Street high rollers are. They were involved for fastidious financial gain, and little else save for having their names recorded in the annals of American history motivated them. In short, they yearned for money and power. Ironically, and perhaps fittingly, many of these men died of relatively ordinary financial means, and only Stanford's name is now recognized by the common man, and only because of the University, not because of the railroad.

The book is mildly entertaining, but too much of it is saturated with Ambrose's gung ho attitude that America is the Greatest Great thing that ever tried to be Greatly Great. Anyone with a tenth of a brain will tire of this early on in the narrative. It's just not good material, to pick up a history book and get hints of comic book hero-worship on the pages. The guy tried hard to be an historical institution unto himself, and a lot of times he missed the mark completely, this book included.

I don't know much about books that rival this work, but I would bet dollars to doughnuts there are dozens of books better suited to tell this story, and most of them will probably leave the "rah rah America" stuff out of it. I suggest looking for one of them
