Norman Augustine and Kenneth Adelman hop on the Bard's very crowded coattails with this attempt to translate soliloquies into sales.  Give them points for timing.  1999's Shakespeare in Love garnered seven Oscars.  Now  that everyone thinks Shakespeare looked like Joseph Fiennes, Will is hotter  than ever. But do men in tights using words like &quot;anon&quot; and  &quot;whilst&quot; really have anything to teach middle management?   Perhaps.  Shakespeare's genius was his ability to plumb the human psyche,  dissect the motivations of his characters, and make even taking out the  garbage sound like poetry.  To the extent that business success is often  determined not by who makes the best widget, but who understands the  complexities of person-to-person relationships, the premise of this book is  on target.  Yet stuffing Hamlet and Henry IV into three-piece suits is a  stretch, to say the least. Each chapter is a quick study of a different  Shakespearian play; for instance, Julius Ceasar as a model of poor  succession planning within an organization, or The Merchant of Venice as a  lesson in risk management.  The parallels drawn between these plays and  modern case studies flow naturally and well.   The authors, however, cram  so many Shakespeare quotations into their little book, even in the opening  credits, it is very nearly swamped.  Many of these quotes are strained,  discombobulating, and downright annoying.  This reaches a laughable low  when a case study opens with Victoria's Secret's sales going flat:   &quot;Leslie H. Wexner, the chairman of Intimate Brands, decided on a  strategy posed by Posthumus in Cymbeline, who says, 'I will begin the  fashion - less without and more within' and so changed the company by  offering the best bras on the market.&quot; Taking snippets of Shakespeare  out of context and hammering them sideways into a business case study does  not make them wise proverbs for the CEO, they remain poorly packaged  gimmicks for selling a book.  In the Historical Figures as Business Gurus  genre, read Donald T. Phillips' Lincoln on Leadership for truly useful  advice.  As for Shakespeare in Charge, you can get the same effect for much  less money by reading the Wall Street Journal while watching a video of  Hamlet
