Skepticism  can be healthy, but this book is an error-filled celebration of hollow, misleading cynicism delivered with a surprising level of shallowness and lack of detail.

Sure this book points out some "legitimate" frauds and hoaxes, but it does a lot of damage and leads people astray by suggesting that a lot of things are frauds and hoaxes that are not. It seems that Mr. Randi concludes that anything and everything he doesn't understand or have proof of is a fraud or hoax. One example: acupuncture.  Never mind that thousands,  if not millions of people have been helped and healed by acupuncture, but even the American Medical Association has concluded that it is a legitimate medical therapy. But Randi includes it in his list of frauds and hoaxes. 

There are many other examples where Randi errs and misleads, or simply does not understand and chooses to cast aspersions (p on) what he is woefully ignorant about. In some cases he cites individuals who have supposedly exposed frauds or disproven claims and theories, but the reader is left with little or no details to assess the claims of the "fraud buster."  

In other cases, a supernatural feat is presumed to have been disproven simply because someone else has managed to appear to replicate the supernatural feat by using sleight-of-hand or other trickery. 

 Not everything that is real and true can or needs to be proven by science or  proven to Mr. Randi. (A large portion of the history of science, in fact, is a history of proving that what science once concluded was unreal or unprovable is in fact real.)  If you accept on face value  everything that Mr. Randi wants you to accept, your life will be much poorer for it. 

This book will provide great reassurance for people who don't want to believe in anything other than their egos. As stated above, this book is a great example of where skepticism has fallen victim to cynicism and that makes this book more harmful than helpful.  To a great extent,  I am very surprised and sorry to conclude, this book itself is a fraud
