This won't be received well.

I know that.

But, there's little point in my writing this if I'm not going to be truthful. I've read this book and the book upon which this is written, and this is what I've found:

Joseph Campbell's Skeleton Key purports to explain the incomprehensible "masterwork" Finnegans Wake. It does offer up an explanation of sorts but this explanation, itself, makes little sense. Further, apart from a small "demonstration passage" early in the work, Campbell offers next-to-no evidence that what he divines is in the Wake itself.

Campbell believes that Finnegans Wake is the story of the cyclical nature of man as expressed in the writings of some obscure philosopher named Vico who, for all I can tell, found his greatest glory in the critical commentary on Finnegans Wake. That's well and good, but the Wake is a mass of 600+ pages of senseless rambling. Why does it take Joyce 600+ pages to communicate a story that Campbell can neatly summarize in the first fifteen pages of his work? Because, according to Campbell, Joyce tells this story over and over again in a "dream language."

According to Campbell, the Wake is one tiny story repeated a thousand times, enshrouded in a rebus-like pseudo-language of puns and portmanteaus. The only thing worse than the suspicion that Campbell is just as fradulent as Joyce is the suspicion that, maybe, he's right. If Campbell is right, then the Wake is transformed from a fairly decent practical joke played on the academic community into a nightmare of pointless, wasted effort. His, Joyce's, yours, and mine.

I cannot bring myself to conclude that Campbell was fraudelent; he seems sincere. So, I simply hold out the hope that he was honestly mistaken in his assessment of the work. Of course, it would be impossible to say whether he was right or wrong--the Wake, like the inkblot in a Rorshach test, will accomodate the human need for pattern recognition by supplying almost any concievable image. There's no way to "prove" any interpretation of the Wake right, or any other interpretation wrong. I could just as easily say that it's a tale about the colonization of Mars. I bet you I could find good textual evidence for it, and then defy you to prove it wasn't so.

Campbell, bound and determined to come up with a coherent tale that fits Joyce's almost-words, indeed produces *something*, though it, itself, is only on the borderlands of the rational. But is that something what Joyce had in mind when he sat down? How would we ever know? Those who need to believe that "Joyce was a genius" because that's how they'll build up their own cultural cachet, will continue to believe it no matter what I say. But those who approach the Wake, or this purported exegisis of it, with an open mind will realize that, for thousands of years men claimed to find meaning in tea-leaves and sheep's entrails, and pictures in the stars, but those images and tales lie more in our own minds than in the entities themselves
