When I was given this book by a guy friend, I thought, why am I getting a book from a Jackie Collins type writer? I had heard of some of Sydney Sheldon novels and most of them seem like JC or Danielle Steel like potboilers that appealed to housewives. but I gave it a chance and I finished it two days later. 

The book revolves around Tracey Whitley (as referred to as TW in the rest of the review), a well to do computer programmer who is engaged to a wealthy banker. However, due to the death of her mother a series of unfortunate events leads her to jail to attempted murder. She was setup. 

The book then follows her in jail and then her release and revenge to those who put her there. The last part of the book leads to her new life as a Master Thief and romance of a roguish competitor. 

The writing style of Sydney Sheldon is not unlike that of a soap opera. He provides you enough twists and turns to keep you interested, but ultimately his books are like Chinese Food. You consume it and then forget it. It is not because the book is badly written, but because the characters have major flaws. 

The main flow of TW is the fact that she is given a cloak of invincibility. Everything she does is perfect, there is literally no suspense later on in the book when she goes to Europe of her getting caught. Her antagonists are idiots, the mafia are clowns and the genius tracking her is lame (and of course crazy). When she lives in a world of cartoonish badguys, of course, she'll come out on top. 

Another problem is believability. If anyone thinks that this plot is even remotely possible, they need to get their head examined. TW goes from being a meek, young girl to a Master Thief who easily robs the Prado Museum, the Diamond Exchange in Amsterdam, tricks mobsters and master chess players at their game in less than 2 years. Simply ridiculous. 

Associated with the above problem is that Sidney Sheldon does not respect the robbery crimes. They are given like 15 pages each and there is no detail to any of them. Some of them have interesting twists (like how she tricks a emerald dealer in London), but the Prado robbery, pure fantasy. 

So maybe that is what Sheldon is getting at all along. He is not a technical writer, he is all about the Female Fantasy (meek, proper woman blossoming into a strong, sophisticated Master Thief who gets the finer things in life and the bad boy-whom she converts). In that case the book works, but from a realism stance, it is a wash....Rating: C
