Rollins' book is an unfortunate combination of the generic and the pretentious.  There's nothing wrong with a generic thriller, as other reviews have pointed out.  But if the author wishes to float a seemingly serious argument about evolution v intelligent design, it would behoove him to provide a moderately sturdy frame. The material from quantum physics does hark back to Jurassic Park, while the Nazi involvement moves us into the neighborhood of The Boys from Brazil or The Assassini.  Even the surprise ending - evident from about 200 pages away - is lifted straight from The Genesis Code by John Case.  But those conspiracy theory classics (well, Case's isn't a classic, but it's a good read) are anchored by well-developed characters and minimal dependency on the crutch of coincidence.  

Rollins' characters are all of the usual suspects, and less.

There is the generic complement of intrepid males, most with two last names - Greyson Pierce, Monk Kokkalis, Logan Gregory, Painter Crow - and the mandatory super-skilled hottie, this one named Dr Lisa Cummings.  The street-wise waif role is filled by an orphaned Pakistani teenager with the unlikely name of Fiona.  Raised in London, she lived for several years on the streets after her parents died and left her to an abusive uncle;  she subsequently bummed across Europe (still trapped in the time-warp of her early teens) and ended up living as the adopted granddaughter of a Copenhagen book dealer.  Somewhere along this odyssey she managed to acquire fluent Dutch as well as staggering pick-pocket skills, the latter slightly less improbable than the former.  

Dr Marsha Fairfield and Dr Paula Kane are two terrific exceptions to this collection of cut-out figures.  In a genre affording little space to the middle aged female (unless she's a type of Rosa Klebb,) Rollins gives us two accomplished and daring women - lesbians, no less.  Sadly, they get a minimal amount of ink.  Still, two stars for effort.

A devotee of the sentence fragment school of suspense writing, Rollins could use some serious editing.  Free-floating phrases and clauses are to be expected, but what's left should, at minimum, follow the conventional rules of grammar and usage. 

"The air tasted old, moldering as much as the shop's paper stock.  It was like much of Europe.  Age and ancientness were a part of everyday life here."  P 50

Moldering air? Ancientness?

"Pile as much clothing between you and the rock to limit heat loss from conduction."  P 106

As much as . . . possible?

Other unedited gems include people walking after they have taken a seat, entering a room for the first time twice, and speaking after they have been said to exit.

As for the plot itself, there is the obligatory scene of obsessive Nazis fleeing Europe with material precious to the once and future Reich.  Fast-forward to today.  By page 80, the reader has witnessed simultaneous death and casual destruction in Copenhagen, in Zululand, South Africa, and at an isolated monastery in Nepal.  When I say simultaneous, that is no exaggeration.  By means of a time-stamp at the top of each section, Rollins asks us to accept that the trans-global cliff-hangers occur with perfect synchronicity.  OK, we've already suspended disbelief for yet another Nazi conspiracy theory, so why balk at this?  If the cliffs were hung less frequently, I wouldn't object.  But this book can be described as a series of near-death encounters lightly salted with narrative and boring digressions.  While Rollins seems to fancy himself something of a philosopher here - the attempt to include intelligent design into a mass of molecular biology is mind-numbingly pretentious - he doesn't trust his own story enough to rely on the tension generated by his ideas.  He has to keep loaded guns, monsters, explosives, fire, and all manner of imminent demise in the faces of his characters, who begin to resemble jacks-in-the-box as they pop up relatively unscathed ten pages later.  The idea of Darwin's family Bible holding genetic secrets is very intriguing.  But it goes up in smoke after failing to live up to its imaginative promise.


If all you want is to hop from one certain-death moment to another, this is the book for you.  If you want a well-thought-out conspiracy theory, try Michael Crichton's State of Fear or Michael Cordy's The Miracle Gene (aka The Messiah Code.
