I read the book, a little hesitant at first because after reading the reviews on here, I knew that there were going to be disturbing details about what happened. It's deffinitely the kind of book that will make you feel sick to your stomach. I wouldn't recommend it to someone who gets easily disturbed by these kind of storys. It was okay the way it was written, I agree with some of the other reviews regarding the author. He often jumped around, and made you feeling a little confused, like "What in the hell is he talking about?" Otherwise, the rest of it just talks about the true story of two evil, people who did the unthinkable to young girls. No one can beat the justice system. I agree with other people that feel this way. Karla Homolka should have stayed in prison for what she did. She stood by watched, videotaped, helped drug her own sister, and torture others. Yah she should go back to prison, that monster, and never see the day of light ever, ever again. Who knows maybe she will be tried again, and if she is, hopefully with a capital "H", she will go back to prison and stay there for the rest of her life. She doesn't deserve anything, she's able to live her life now, and do whatever she wants. That just goes to show how screwed up our justice system is. Twelve years later after she gets out of prison she has no remorse for what she did. Making it quite obvious in an recent interview she gave not to long ago, by saying "I didn't initiate the crimes." She just stood by and videotaped the whole thing, as it makes it very clear in the book that she got a kick out of it. She talks about "starting her life over," now. After reading this book and then reading her interview she gave, I had to laugh, because no body can start there life over. She deffinitely can't. Overall if you want to read the book, just keep in mind that it is very gruesome, and it will make your stomach turn. Whatever, don't feel sorry for her. The author his little ways to try to make you feel bad for the witch. She's no victim
