     After using Dr.Dyer's aaah meditation CD for a month, I decided that I wanted to learn more this meditation. Therefore, I bought the book Manifest Your Destiny.  The book reads like a personal journal about nine insights he has gained from his own search for spiritualism.  There are many things that disturb me about this book.  
     Dr. Dyer cites quotes from the bible to substantiate some of his points without citing the book, chapter, or verse.  One of the bible quotes he uses is "Is it not written in your law `I have said, You are gods?'" (John 10:34)  This is the passage to which Jesus referred when He said this to the Pharisees who were attempting to charge Him with blasphemy: " God standeth in the congregation of God; He judgeth among the gods. How long will ye judge unjustly, And respect the persons of the wicked? ... I said, Ye are gods, And all of you sons of the Most High."  (Psalms 82:1,2,6). The unjust judges of Israel (i.e., the Pharisees) were the subject of these verses.  They were civil magistrates because of their authority and power; and, they represented divine majesty in the government of the twelve tribes of Israel.  Dr. Dyer uses this verse completely out of context.   Scripture cannot be broken.  
     Jesus believed in the bible because it is infallible and immutable as are God's other laws.  A true seeker of spiritualism cannot reconfigure God's Word for his own purpose.  Neither can the true spiritual seeker be ignorant about God's Word and actually expect to know God's and come into a relationship with Him.  Dr. Dyer takes a little bit of truth and expands upon it in a somewhat convincing way to fit our desire for an easy road to spiritualism. The fact of the matter is that according to Jesus the door to God's kingdom is narrow (Luke 13:24).   There are no shortcuts. 
     Lastly, a true spiritual seeker does not strive to become spiritual with the intention of manifesting worldly possessions.  This appears to be a main theme of Dr. Dyer's book.  Those who seek God first gain all they need to be happy in this world as a "gift" from Him.  We do not need to grasp at anything as long as we trust God and put Him first in our lives.  Dr. Dyer seems to miss the point.
