Indy comic writer/artist Paul Pope, best known for works such as THB and Heavy Liquid, takes us to Gotham City in the year 2039 for BATMAN YEAR 100, set... well... 100 years after the debut of the Golden Age Batman. The future ain't such a pretty place - instead of streamlined pop-art fanciness, we are presented with darkness and grime, and technology that, while advanced, doesn't make the future a sunny place. A federal agent is murdered in Gotham, and who should be caught on video at the scene of the crime than the Dark Knight. As all files and records on Batman appear to have been purged, he is regarded only as a mythological creature, rumor, fairy tale, symbol... anything but a real person. As Federal troops descend on the city to capture him, we learn that he's real enough, and what's more: the man behind the cowl might actually be Bruce Wayne!

This trade collects Pope's 4-issue miniseries, plus his "Berlin Batman" story from Batman Chronicles #11. Visually, this book is stunning. Love it or hate it, Pope's distinctive take on Batman cannot be ignored. It's gritty, jarring, even ugly, but it suits the style of the story, with a hint of classic Golden Age feel. There is an abundance of atmosphere, to the point that the pages almost have a "smell" or "sound" to them. Even though Pope's style may not be all that palatable in terms of what superhero fans are accustomed to, you can't help but feel the reality inherent in his Batman. He certainly seems more like an actual human being compared to what I've seen recently from other Batman artists.

Unfortunately, I'm not as keen on Pope's writing as I am on his art. While he does a good job creating a future setting for the story, Batman himself is not adequately addressed. The reader is certainly presented with some interesting situations. Is this really Batman? Where has he been? Why was his existence hidden? Is it really Bruce Wayne, and if so, how has he been alive for so long? The reader can make some educated guesses, but Pope puts forward nothing concrete. But my biggest question is this: as hints are dropped that this Batman could be the same one fans have read about for the past 60 years, what happened to all the other heroes and villains of the DC Universe? The story left me with far too many questions, and even the little ones I had going in weren't answered satisfactorily. While Pope succeeded at setting up a big mystery. I don't feel that this story was developed to the point that it had to exclusively be a "Batman" tale - realistically, any Golden Age DC hero could take Batman's place. I did have fun with the "Berlin Batman" story - an odd little piece, but very fitting considering the abundance of Jewish comic creators. I had certainly hoped for more from BATMAN: YEAR 100, given the reviews I'd read, but while the premise certainly hooked me, the story addressed none of the obvious questions.
