Let's see.  David Carradine constantly faced bankruptcy, yet he claims to be continually working making films that very few of us have ever heard about, and earning $25,000 a day.  How can this be?  Could it be because he was an abuser of drugs and alcohol, that he was repeatedly finding a new love, leaving his former wife and remarrying, that he was buying and remodelling home after home, that he purchased high tech sports cars only to run them into the ground, that he owned dozens of expensive guitars, that he continually chose to live beyond his means, that his life was forever spinning wildly out of control? According to this book, the answer is no.  It is always somebody else's fault.  For example, he was married to the lovely Barbara Hershey and very much in love.  But the marriage dissolved.  It was John Barrymore, Jr.'s fault.  How can that be?  Because Barrymore introduced him to another woman knowing that David couldn't resist the temptation.  That's David's excuse.  Carradine claims to be a follower of the Shaolin philosophy, an important background of his TV persona Kwai Chang Caine.  I admit I don't know much about the philosophy, but I imagine it preaches being responsible for your own actions.  Carradine hasn't matured to the point where he can accept this responsibility.  But then again, the apple hasn't fallen far from the tree.  His dad, the wonderful character actor John, is another terrific example of being irresponsible.  Although the father worked steadily, he was constantly broke, often married, and shipped his son out to all types of foster home situations, most of them unpleasant.  The Carradines represent one of the great theatrical families of all time, so I found it amazing to read how illequipped they were to live life in an accountable fashion.  I purchased this book, because I am a fan of the old man. Unfortunately, there is not much flattering information about him here.  Actually, I became tired of reading the same mistakes being made over and over again by father and son, mistakes that were spreading into the next generation as well.  A better title would have been "Endless Cloverleaf," because that's what I felt I was trapped on.  Speaking of "Endless," Carradine peppers the text with lyrics of songs he has written.  This is pretty mundane stuff.  When will aspiring authors learn that lyrics are only half of a song, and sometimes the lesser half.  We can't appreciate what's created without hearing it put to music.  Without the music, it's not worth the ink.  Also, there's an "Endless" section duplicating his daily journal at the end of the book that ads nothing but pages.  This is a depressing and boring book.  Kind of like the young Carradine's acting abilities.   
