There is a difference between religion and culture, and although it is often difficult to tease them apart, the effort should be made. Ayaan Hirsi Ali has not made much of an attempt in her book, which seems to blame Islam for the shortcomings of Somali culture when it comes to women - and, worse, to imply that Somalia is typical of the Islamic world, which is so diverse that a 'typical' country cannot be found. Sadly, male oppression of women can be found in most parts of the world, including those with no connection to Islam - and men have often twisted religions to justify their treatment of women. 

One subject she deals with is that of female circumcision in its most extreme form, that of 'female genital mutilation' or FGM. She is correct that FGM is practiced in Somalia, but incorrect in ascribing this custom to Islamic influence. She does point out that FGM preceded Islam, and started in Africa, but doesn't take pains to note that it possibly dates back to ancient Egypt (hence the alternate name of 'Pharaonic circumcision'), and is unknown in most of the Islamic world but practiced in some African countries by animists and Christians as well as Muslims.

I am uncomfortable with her writing as a spokesperson for Muslim women, since she doesn't seem to know much about Islam. Incredibly, she doesn't even seem to have read the Qur'an, since she states that Prophet Muhammad wrote about female circumcision in that book. Leaving aside the question of the source of the Qur'an (if she thinks it was written by the Prophet as opposed to being revealed by God, she is no longer a Muslim), the Qur'an in fact never mentions circumcision at all, even male circumcision.  There are also no authentic hadiths (traditions of the Prophet) in which he talks of female circumcision.

It disturbs me that Muslim or formerly Muslim women who write books criticizing Islam are immediately lionized in the West, no matter how uninformed these people are. It seems that some Westerners who are already hostile to Islam latch onto these people to support their own prejudices. Others simply don't realize that people like Ali are not necessarily reliable on the subject of the religion.

I agree with another reviewer that it would be a better idea to read books by feminists with a deep knowledge of Islam, such as Dr. Leila Ahmed, born and brought up in Egypt and now a professor at Harvard's Divinity School. She too speaks of the oppression of women, but in a more nuanced and informed way. Two of her books are "Women and Gender in Islam" and "A Border Passage," the latter the story of her own life in Egypt, England, Abu Dhabi, and the U.S. and the evolution of her thought on feminism and her religion
