Longtime fans of Scott O'Dell's classic Island of the Blue Dolphins, do yourself a favor and avoid this lackluster sequel.

Island of the Blue Dolphins was one of my favorite books as a kid.  I must've read it at least a dozen times.  Somehow, I didn't find out that it had a sequel until years later.  Intrigued by the idea of a sequel to Island, which kind of ends on a cliffhanger, I read Zia.  I was interested in seeing how Scott O'Dell would handle what happens to Karana when she is finally rescued off the island after being stranded for 18 years.

As you probably know, Island of the Blue Dolphins was based on a true story, but the facts are few about the real Lost Woman.  So how would the talented writer Scott O'Dell concoct what happens to Karana?  The result, Zia, is terribly disappointing.

For starters, fans of Karana won't have much to read about.  At least half of the book deals with her niece and nephew trying to go to the island to rescue her.  The story is told completely from the niece's point of view.  We never get to hear what Karana herself thought about experiencing a new land and being reunited with people after so many years, and the sadness she must have faced at finding that her tribe was gone.  We learn almost nothing about what happened to Karana's father and sister, just that her sister's children have ended up orphans in a missionary.  And sadly, there's nothing interesting about Karana's niece Zia and her brother.  They merely serve as plot devices to stretch this paper-thin story out over 100 pages or so.

I now appreciate the "cliffhanger" ending of Island of the Blue Dolphins in its perfect simplicity.  It is better to leave the story when Karana leaves the island, and let it be.  Your own imagination about what it was like for Karana to live at a missionary where no one spoke her language and there was no trace of her tribe left is better than the depressing depiction of her life in Zia.  I wish I could erase Zia from my mind.

Zia truly is a sequel that should not have been written
