This is a book about our society and yet I am left wondering how "everything bad for us" actually affects our society. I believe the author's underlying presumption is that improving the individual improves our society as a whole. This societal analysis, however, is completely missing.

The book can be summed up as follows:
1. Games and software are more complex, therefore our problem-solving ability has increased.
2. TV is more complex, therefore our emotional intelligence has increased.
3. The Internet gives us new ways to connect with others, therefore our communication abilities have increased.

The litmus test for all this is increasing IQ scores.

Part I of the book goes to great lengths to explain how an individual's "mental muscle" is increased through popular media: games, TV, software, and the Internet. Part II asserts that increased IQ scores are the proof that our mental muscle is increasing.

The individual may be benefiting from popular media, but is our society benefiting? Are more technological breakthroughs happening? Are we better able to piece together disparate facts provided by the media and government into a cohesive whole? Is software easier to use so we can more easily accomplish our goals? Are communities and homes being designed better so they improve communication between neighbors and families? Can we better recognize the underlying motives of our politicians? Are we making great strides to decrease global warming, air and water pollution, forest depletion, species extinction, famine, homelessness, cancer and disease, gender and racial inequality, and the distribution of wealth?

If our ability to see connections and solve problems has improved, why do a vast number of Americans still believe there is a connection between 911 and Iraq? Why do we not recognize that the diversity of plant and animal species on the planet directly affects our well-being? Why do we seem incapable of understanding that many of the divisive issues we focus upon (e.g., school prayer, flag burning, abortion, gay marriage) are simply manifestations of larger societal problems (e.g., inequality, poverty, domination and control).

How is the popular media affecting these societal and technological issues? Is it making them worse? This is the missing part of the book that I hope will be addressed in another edition
