In a review remarkable for saying nothing about the book, Popop from Boston (April 9 below) alludes to some children blown up by an IRA bomb in a North of England shopping center. Popop is very broad-minded. It pains him that anyone would bad-mouth such "armed operations". They were perfectly justified, he explains, because of thousands of innocent Irish Catholics murdered at the hands of the British army.

I know why thousands of murders are important to Popop. Without them, while he might justify random bombings in his own mind, he could hardly do so in decent company. But I live in Ireland, not America, where news of these murdered thousands has not reached us. Gerry Adams never said a word about them, not wishing to be laughed out of the country. He had to make the most all these years of a dozen fellows caught in a crossfire in Derry in 1973. I guess he saved the big one for the broad-minded boyos in Boston. What of all those dollars that Popop broad-mindedly dropped in the Semtex collection box? They were not wasted. Thousands of Irish really were murdered - mostly not Catholics but all of them really dead - at the hands of the disorganization that Mr Adams always denied being a member of. To be sure, his non-henchmen failed to terrorize the Northern Irish into caving in, but his enforcer, who can barely write his own name, did get to be Minister of Education (I'm not making this up; I couldn't).

Oh, and the book is quite thought-provoking. There's a lot about Bushes, Arabs and the wrong kind of tax-cuts that went over my head. There's wit of a subtlety rarely seen since Voltaire - you can tell by the CAPITALS and !!!!. There are explanations of 9/11 to suit every taste, whichever Bush you blame. Myself, I suspect those Enrons. But Mr Moore did discover:

"THERE ... IS ... NO ... TERRORIST ... THREAT!"

He paid us a flying visit, dined with some IRA capos who were laughing up their sleeves, and found the solution to the Irish Question without breaking sweat: everybody should be nice to each other
