Phoebe Hoban's BASQUIAT: A Quick Killing in Art is one of the few biographies of the painter whose brief career (1980-1988) coincided with the disgusting obsession with profit of the Eighties' art world. There is little here about his work itself, and in order to understand why Basquiat is so important you'll need a collection of his pictures.

The two big themes of the book are drugs and lots of sex with myriad women and men. I had the impression (like many, I assume) that Basquiat's sinking into drug addiction happened only after his corrupting fame, but Hoban reveals that he had been seriously abusing drugs since the age of fifteen. Basquiat's making an income by selling his body is also exhaustively treated, as are his relationships with Klaus Nomi, Rene Richards, Suzzane Mallouk, and others. The reader notices that a lot of things are being left out. It is obvious, and Hoban herself makes an allusion at one point, that Basquiat was somewhat well-read, but Hoban never talks about his intellectual activities or, with the exception of Cy Twombly, his discovery of his artistic predecessors.

After recounting Basquiat's death, there are two final chapters. The first describes the fights over his estate over the following decade. Hoban has Vrej Baghoomian coming out looking like quite the scumbag, and she describes the case of the several Basquiat forgeries. The chapter ends with a chilling visit to Basquiat's mother, now left extremely poor and mentally fragile even though she was entitled to fifty percent of all proceeds. The final chapter finally focuses on Basquiat's art itself, its themes and the painter's techniques. However, it isn't as substantial as other presentations of Basquiat's work.

If you love Basquiat's painting and really could care less who the man was, Hoban's biography has little appeal and that is why I have rated it rather low. I think that the book would be most attractive to those seeking to understand Basquiat in a historical context along with the 1980s art scene as a whole. That the work is very well-sourced makes it a useful guide to further research
