Arthur Rowe is a graying middle-aged man who visits a parish carnival. He tries the fortune teller and unknowingly mentions a coded question. He is told to guess the weight of the cake raffle as "four pounds eight and a half ounces"! Rowe won this prize, but there was some question about it. Back at his apartment he has a piece of cake. Then a bomb falls and destroys his apartment (war time London). The new tenant went to the hospital. Rowe goes to a Private Inquirer to find out about this new tenant, and why he put a drug in Rowe's tea. Next Rowe goes to track down the fortune teller, and visits the lobbying group called the "Free Mothers". Hilfe takes him to a seance where somebody is stabbed. Rowe makes his escape before the police arrive. [This is followed by pages of reminiscing about Rowe's boyhood. It pads the story, and displays Greene's literary prowess. A film would cut it all out to simplify the story.] Pages tell of life in wartime London under the bombs.

The story continues with an undercover operative fooling Rowe into taking a suitcase to a hotel room. ["No good deed ever goes unpunished."] Johns explains the "Ministry of Fear" as the method of gathering dirt on important people then threatening them with exposure if they don't cooperate. [SOP for the Secret Services.] Could a witness disappear into a private asylum (Book Two)? Rowe manages to escape from the asylum, and goes to the police. His information matches what is known. The police raid the private asylum and find 3 dead men. They cannot find the spool of microfilm with the secret papers. They find the buttons and shoes from Jones, the private inquirer, but nothing else. Its easy to get rid of a body in war time. It all ends well: the secret microfilm is recovered, and Arthur is happy.

What could Green have been thinking? The drama about a secret spy ring is masked by the psychological musings of Arthur. The much better "The Third Man" is an improved version of this story, all the dull parts were omitted. Was this written for domestic propaganda? Greene worked for British Intelligence during the war, he could have written a better story.
