I was disappointed in the latest Lincoln Rhyme mystery. The book had more twists than a Chubby Checker song and in the end they strained credibility.

Rhyme and Sachs are called in to solve a string of murders by a serial killer calling himself the Watchmaker. Rhyme has met his match with the Watchmaker, a meticulous killer who leaves nothing to chance and leaves few clues for Rhyme to follow.

Running parallel to the story of the Watchmaker, Sachs is also lead detective on her first case - a case that appears to involve police corruption. Sachs is juggling a heavy case load as well as rumours that her own father may have been corrupt. Ron Pulaski steps up to help with crime scenes and proves himself to be a smart and resourceful officer but ultimately it is up to Rhyme and Sachs to solve the case. 

The book introduces Kathryn Dance, a visiting Californian expert in Kinesics, the study of body language. Dance helps interview suspects and witnesses and plays a role in solving the case. There is also a hint of romance with officer Sellitto which is ultimately left hanging. The information about Kinesics is interesting and Dance is a character that could have used more development. 

The title of the book comes from a season in the lunar calendar, which is also a time of death. The book also contains a lot of information about clocks and time courtesy of the Watchmaker. There was some fascinating information, but at times the book was bogged down in historical details about clocks.

The book lurches from one plot twist to the next. At first it was exciting, but after a while it became tedious. NOTHING was what it seemed. Further I found Rhyme less likeable in this book - grumpy, bossy, pedantic and sarcastic. The only hint of humanity was in his fear that he may lose Sachs.

At times I found the writing clumsy. Deaver uses cliched adjectives in his sentences to describes his characters, such as, 
      "the handsome, sardonic and impatient criminalist"
I found it trite to describe Rhyme that way. 

This book is not as good as earlier Rhyme mysteries. 
