1.	Travel is by nature exploitative of the environments and indigenous cultures of the places visited.  Best just to stay home.

2.	It's irresponsibly hedonistic to desire a good meal, a glass of fine wine or a swim on a tropical beach.  Again, it's best to stay home.  And at home you should stick to steamed vegetables from your garden, filtered tap water and cold showers.

3.	It's possible to write and publish a book that is ostensibly about the anthropology and political economy of Thailand when you are unfamiliar with either discipline (both authors have doctorates in literature) and know little about the country or its language.  All you need is a pile of travel guides, vacation brochures and the Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature.  If you can spout meaningless pap like "the bar-girl subjectivity" to uncomprehending interview subjects, so much the better.  (A better title for this book would have been:  "Sexy Thailand: The View from an MLA Convention."  In fact how this book ever got published in the first place is beyond me; I guess someone at Routledge thought sex would sell, but that's a matter between the Routledge editors and their own personal deities.)  

4.	Both that the personal is political and the political is personal.  (See work cited by authors:  "Riflessioni liguistiche sul personale e sul politico," which, by the way, is one of several works in European languages listed in a bibliography that does not mention even one article in Thai or any other Asian language.)

5.	Although western culture has irredeemably objectified, exoticized and fetishized Asian women, it's o.k. for a White American Male (WAM) to marry a "LBFM," but only if she's from a "good" (i.e., wealthy) family, as co-author Bishop says in the book that he has done.  Bishop makes his reason for writing the book explicit on page 1, where he says that when he traveled around Thailand with his Thai wife everyone assumed she was a prostitute.  At restaurants, Thai men at neighboring tables would make disparaging remarks, and "not even my rebukes in Thai could silence their tongues."  He might have tried being diplomatic or even improving his Thai, which the rest of the book proves is a language that he knows barely at all.  Instead he co-wrote this book, so much as to say, look, I wrote a book published by a fancy academic press that shows what idiots you all are, so shut up!  (If you think this comment is too personal, see number 4, above.  And also note that Bishop--who at the time the book was published was "Visiting Assistant Professor" at SMU--now works at a university in Singapore, a city whose expat residents enjoy a lifestyle that more closely approximates that of high colonialism than any other place on earth.   At least we can be thankful that he's not writing articles about the "subjectivity" of his domestic help.  Although "Night Market" is on his c.v., his list of current research interests does not mention anthropology, economics, sex, or even Thailand.
