For many centuries in &quot;civilized&quot; Europe, the mostpopular form of mass entertainment was watching other people being putto death in horrible ways. This phenomenon reached its apex (or if you will, its nadir) during the Roman empire, with the infamous games of the amphitheater. As Roland Auguet relates, in his recent book, Cruelty and Civilization, the games had their origin in the funeral customs of wealthy Etruscan families, who would compel a few of their slaves to kill each other in ritual combat as a form of sacrifice to appease the spirit of the deceased. By the time of Caesar Augustus, these gladiatorial combats had pretty much lost any vestige of a religious character and become huge spectacles, organized with all the style of big budget Hollywood productions. Like the blockbuster movie, they often featured a cast of thousands. The big difference was that in the Roman shows, the blood was real, the stunts weren't faked, and the stars really died.  Everyone loved the games. The most respectable women in Rome, the Vestal Virgins, had their own reserved seating so they could have a close-up view of men being hacked to pieces, disembowelled, or torn apart by wild animals. Roman fathers would take their sons to see murder done for the same reasons they'd take them to a hockey game today; it was good clean fun. The Romans revelled in violence in a way that is hard for us to accept or understand.  In Cruelty and Civilization, Mr.  Auguet promises us something more than just a standard narrative history of the Roman games; he also proposes to offer some kind of psycho-moral analysis. Unfortunately, he is such a slavish admirer of Roman culture that he can't bring himself to see it clearly. Right at the beginning of the book, he asserts that &quot;there is nothing more incompatible with the Roman mentality than the form of cruelty known as sadism.&quot; - in spite of all the evidence to the contrary. Having ruled out the most natural and logical explanation for the games - that the Romans, like all human beings, had their dark side - Auguet is then unable to come up with any alternative theory. He raises all the usual questions but doesn't provide any new answers. So why did he bother to write the book? And why should we bother to read it
