Half paean to old-time radio, half murder mystery, this overly melodramatic WWII-era set novel lurches along for far too long before petering out, exhausted with itself. I've enjoyed Dunning's "Bookman" series, and I like historically set mysteries, so picking this up seemed like a no-brainer. But Dunning overextends himself with this one. The story revolves around Jack Dulaney, a down-and-out racetrack horse-walker who gets in a fight that lands him in jail. His buddy helps to spring him from a work gang, but is then killed. This is the catalyst for Jack's incredibly complicated search for the killer and reason behind the murder. The trail leads him to a New Jersey beach town and the radio station where his buddy used to work as an actor. There, further disappearances and deaths are revealed, including that of Carnahan, the father of the woman he pined for years before. As it happens, the woman is also in town, working as a nightclub singer under an assumed name. Jack manages to get work at the station as a writer, allowing him to poke around and try to get to the bottom of everything (not to mention rekindle his old flame). 

Here is where the book starts to have real problems. Namely, all the detail about old-time radio production is far more fascinating than the murders. I'm not particularly (nor are most readers likely to be) interested in how dramatic radio shows were put together back in the '30s and '40s, but Dunning makes the station come alive and does a fascinating job of detailing the inner workings. From the scripting, to the management, the actors, the sound effects, it's all very well dramatized. So much so, in fact, that it's hard for the reader to care very much about the deaths of some characters met only very briefly or in flashbacks. The station's attempt to create original dramatic programming that pushed the limits of what was considered acceptable material--such as a scripted serial about black Americans, an anti-war prison camp series, and soforth--ends up being much more interesting. Unfortunately, the story eventually leaves the radio setting (via a lame piece of misdirection lifted from Hamlet) to dive into the world of German spies in America, the Irish Republic Army, and all manner of melodrama.

The melodrama is enhanced by a certain thinness to the characters. The protagonist is an especially poorly drawn hero figure with altogether too keen a resemblance to the hero of Dunning's "Bookman" series. He's one of those all-purpose strong, capable men. Street-fighting? No problem. Writing a critically well-received Steinbeck/Dos Passosesque novel? No problem. Escaping a work gang? No problem. Master writing radio drama overnight? No problem. Expert tracking through the woods? No problem. When the hero of a story turns out to be exceptional at everything, the whole story is diluted. Beyond Jack, the cast of characters is so large that Dunning doesn't really have the time or space to develop any of them in any meaningful way. It's not generally a good thing when the villain in a mystery is a character you can barely remember being in the story. This is a pity, because there are a number of characters with potential, and the old-time radio setting is certainly well done. As a historical novel about a small group of people striving in a creative field, it works fairly well--in no small part due to the subsequent total demise of the world depicted in the book. Just don't expect to pick this up and find yourself immersed in a thriller.
