All you'll get out of this book is that when slithering past people in a movie theater you should turn around so your rear end isn't in their faces.  Granted it is now hilarious to watch pay per view Boxing and count how many people are "crude" down in Las Vegas slithering by each other.  

It was her "interpretation" of the times and it won't cut the mustard.  You're going to take on step forward and be declared "crude."  This is a 2004/2005 fact.  You're going to have to go through finishing school to even begin to comprehend that game that you are dabbling with in "being a lady."  There are only two that I am aware of, the first which is a DVD course titled, "Udefine U," and another that runs about 5000 dollars for a couple of days which top level executives are put through by their corporations.  

Udefine U is about a hundred dollars.

These "ladies" can be spotted at a glance.  They walk a certain way.  When they reach for a glass on the coffee table they have a particular body movement.  I am sorry but reading a round of "Be nice to a guy on a date" won't do it.

The top level executive course is the only one that mentions you MUST eat with your silverware in the continental style now.  It is *Mandatory.*  The Udefine U finishing school will offer this as a choice to you.

I'll give the authoress this credit.  She IS the only one who nailed everyone with their rear end in everyone elses face making their way to their seat.  This isn't the important stuff.  Rear end or no rear end going in the wrong direction, you had better have the walk, and your fork must be in your left hand FOREVER.  

This book isn't where you're going to be okay.  It is a read once and chuck.  The sooner you begin finishing school the better.  It'll take about a year I reason to break down old movement patterns and for a fact always as a norm use the fork in the left hand.  

So buyer beware.  Worse is out there.  I spotted that nightmare at a Target.  Manners described as "And how about something cheerful to wear!"  (Many warm fuzzies that will only destroy a person trying to improve.)  The "You're cursed for even trying syndrome."

The odds are where you're trying to take this book to is going to notice you're not all that.  Go on.  Head on down to the Mandalay.  I'll be watching you enter the amphitheater for that boxing match.  Will having read this book clue me in that you are different from the ordinary boob?  No.  I'll then notice how you squeeze in past others to your seat.  I'll know that you're trying.  You at least bought this book
