"MacArthur's Undercover War" has all the makings of a great modern World War II book:  seldom heard-of commando raids in the Pacific, daring esponiage, and a larger-than-life character in the famous and controversial Douglas MacArthur.  Yet a few obvious errors and a lack of solid citations has left me to question a great deal of material in this book (as another reviewer warned.)

First off, for readers eager to dive into the MacArthur controversy, this book will be a disappointment.  Breuer has nothing but praise for MacArthur although he does acknowledge the commander's prima donna demeanor.  Indeed, you will not see in this book a citation of the "Dugout Doug" poem that was undoubtedly uttered by so many GIs on Corregidor and Bataan in 1942.

One error (or maybe a slip of the author's organization) in the book nearly caused my to shelve it without completing the work.  While discussing the early battles between Japanese-American forces, the author places the battle of Midway after the struggle on Guadalcanal! In reality, the great turning point at Midway occured in the summer of 1942, while the Guadalcanal battle wrapped up a year later in 1943. I was quite stunned upon reading Breuer's account of Midway, and I looked over the pages again to make certain that I did not skip any dates that the author inserted in the text.  There was none.  In the chapter titled "The Great Manila Bay Silver Heist,"  the last year mentioned before Breuer explains Midway is 1943.  Then Breuer continues onward to mention how the battle of Midway opened on June 7 without mentioning the year, seemingly implying to any reader that he is still discussing 1943.

In another error I noticed, Breuer describes the B-29 "Flying Fortress."  This again is misleading, since the B-17 was the official "Flying Fortress," while the mammoth B-29 was the "Super Fortress."  Such errors would certainly force any knowledgeable reader to question an author's credibility.

The good news is that "MacArthur's Undercover War" is an entertaining book; a great book for anyone looking for a "shoot 'em up" tale that may or may not be fiction.  For educational purposes, however, readers should look elsewhere
