Your book, to me, conveys false conclusions:  if our country's forefathers/founders could overcome such biases in their media to create our country, then our current complaints of biased media are either unfounded or overblown since either 1)current media is less bias than in the past or 2)we will overcome the media bias as our forefathers did to do or create something as  positive as they did when they created our country.

1) The majority of our forefathers were directly or probably one generation away from the oppression, either political, religious, or social [class], which drove them here in the first place despite the difficult journey.  Their first-hand or recent knowledge of their oppression, and their reactions to it, trumped the old media's propaganda!  They knew too much first-hand to be hornswoggled by media, only newspapers and pamphlets then.  In essence, they KNEW what they would NOT stand for regardless of what the media stated, for they had LIVED it, barely, or parents had!

I would submit to you we would NOT have bought the administration's nor biased media's false assertions regarding Saddam had we had war on our soil in recent memory.  We would have ALL known what war was first-hand and would NOT have made this "decision" so readily or cavalierly.

2) How many of the colonists could read?  Yes, obviously, the founders could, but the average colonist had to depend on the educated founders, or that class of folks, to tell them the news and its ramifications, which were translated through the founders' own biases.

Today, folks get their "facts" from many "news" sources other than newspapers or the almost extinct pamphlet, i.e. tv, internet, books, etc. The selection of which source is often a result of their ideology, rather than in the past, when they took what was available as far as source.

I would submit the lack of recent knowledge of oppression or lack of freedoms, the lack of civic education - heck, ignorance, no knowledge of history, apathy, and trust, albeit, misplaced - contribute, in my opinion, to the increased harm the current biased media does to We, The People and OUR Country!

Let's face it, the majority of us are used to Walter Cronkite, NOT Bill O'Reilly, (of course, depending upon one's generation) and their inherent credibility or not. Which of these people is more credible, or stated another way, which of these people has been caught in lies or scandals?

So, NO, I do NOT agree with what I think are your false conclusions or dismissal of harm done by current biased media.  I believe the harm is immeasurable.  I believe it is MORE than unfortunate given it DIRECTLY lead to an invasion based on LIES.

ALL these years have passed since our country was founded, and the press, collectively, has NOT improved or evolved in a positive way with any depth, ergo, the ease the current press slipped into bias mode.  Rather, the media has digressed into lies and obfuscation.  To the degree they have committed these acts, the current media is TOTALLY complicit with the results - a war, which the majority feel we never should have embarked upon, just to mention one glaring example, AD NAUSEAM!

I am MORE than DISGUSTED over the media's active participation through their blatant bias in all the negative things which have happened to our country in the last five years!  I am just as DISGUSTED with ANY who would apologize for it, minimize it, or dismiss it.

ALL WE, THE PEOPLE, EVER WANT or DESERVE in this country is the pure FACTS, untarnished by the prism of bias!
