Marvin Meyer has done a service for us in that he has translated the Coptic text of a document that helps to explain the beliefs of proto-Gnostic Greek mystery sects in the second century.  However, his introduction reveals his bias.  One must remember that the Gospel of Thomas is dated by reputable scholars as somewhere between 70-100 years younger (and therefore more unreliable) than the synoptic Gospels of the New Testament (Matthew, Mark, Luke).  One must also remember, as Meyer describes, that the Gospel of Thomas survives in its entirety in only ONE full manuscript, and it is a translation of the missing Greek text into the unrelated Coptic language.  (We also have three Greek quotations of the text of the Gospel of Thomas in the writings of some early church fathers).  Compared to the thousands of partial and full ancient Greek manuscripts that we have available to us of the canonical gospels, the Gospel of Thomas cannot be seriously considered to be a more accurate account of the teaching of Jesus than the canonical gospels.

Meyer obviously favors the Gospel of Thomas over the canonical gospels, with some extremely faulty reasoning.  Meyer writes on pages 8-9 of the intro, "The most well-known Christian collection of sayings is what Burton Mack calls "the lost gospel" Q (from the German Quelle, "source"), which was used, along with Mark, by Matthew and Luke in the compilation of their gospels.  As it has been reconstructed out of sayings in Matthew and Luke, Q was very likely a "gospel" of wisdom very much like the Gospel of Thomas in it is literary genre."  In other words, Meyer likes to see Jesus as a teacher minus all the miracle stories present in the canonical gospels, which, in his mind, was who Jesus really was.  The Gospel of Thomas, with no miracle stories or crucifixion/resurrection narrative, obviously reveals a Jesus that Meyer prefers to the "Jesus of Faith." But relying upon Q to prove that Christ was not a supernatural miracle worker but only a wise teacher is unbelievably subjective.  Q is hypothetical, a theory, that's it.  There is no Q manuscript anywhere in existence.  Q very well may have existed as a source for Matthew, and Luke, but if it did, we have no sure idea what it contained.  Meyer talks as if he is quoting directly from Q, which allows him to come to whatever conclusion he wishes to reach.  If Q really consists of what is common to Matthew and Luke, it could just as well contain many miracles of Christ in addition to teaching alone.  

It is far more likely that the Gospel of Thomas is the representation of a mixture of Greek philosophical Gnosticism and Christian belief.  Meyer himself admits on page 6 of the introduction that it is likely that the Gospel of Thomas was written by a Manichean, a group which Meyer describes as "mystical, gnostic followers of the teacher Mani."  The ancient church father Cyril of Jerusalem attributed the writing of the Gospel of Thomas to a Manichean, and scholars knew this long before the text of the Gospel of Thomas was ever even discovered in the 20th century
