But it's awfully simplistic and in some cases, wrong.  For example he claims based on some survey that we all consider time more valuable than money.  I disagree.  I think many people do consider time more important, while others, such as those struggling to get by on low-wage jobs and affluent workers who do a lot of overtime, value money more.  Very ambitious people also tend to value money, both for themselves and for their children.  IMO, that's part of why so many upper-class children have lives crammed with extracurricular activities:  so they can be "balanced" and go to Harvard, get a great job, and make good money.

The author also praises Advent and mentions that an Advent story is the Annunciation:  this is odd because the Annunciation is celebrated March 25, not in Advent.  Maybe what he meant is that people think of Mary's pregnancy and that brings the Annunciation to mind.  I don't know.  

There are the usual preachy generalizations:  we are too selfish; we think of ourselves too much, etc.  I really doubt that me-me-me should have been the message the author got from his experiment in watching all that TV, when TV contains such an odd mix of stuff:  mindless entertainment, sports, distressing news, educational programs, commercials which do promote "me," and "after-school specials."

What bothers me is that the author assumes giving too much to children makes them selfish, but then he immediately switches to giving to other people.  This is a widely held opinion:  you give material things to your children, or you tell them to focus on others instead.  The other option is to pay attention to your children, which he does discuss.

For example, taking the time to have real, in-depth conversations.  For example, asking them if they are happy with that ballet class or being on that soccer team; how they get along with their friends, and what school is like?   The kinds of questions that would often get a one or two-word answer out of kids.  Spending relaxed time with your children, not pressuring them to help someone else or think about what *you* want them to, just hanging out and having enough patience to hear what they want to say, when they are ready to say it.

Finally, I found his suggestions for helping others relatively superficial and even, in cases, patronizing.  OK, feed the homeless for a day.  Admirable for the helpers, but that really doesn't help much.  Bake brownies for someone.  That will make you feel good, but giving them to a "shut-in" won't help explain why the person is a "shut-in" at all, or what can be done (if anything) to improve the situation.

But of all his suggestions, I especially disliked his idea of going to a "mental hospital" and singing Christmas carols.  I have spent a fair amount of time in psychiatric hospitals myself; few people in there are in a mood to be suitably grateful to a bunch of strangers singing about Christmas.  

Full disclosure:  I was in a psychiatric hospital for about 2 weeks as an inpatient just prior to Christmas 2001.

First, not everyone is Christian, and Jews and others who do not celebrate Christmas are a captive audience if they are in the hospital.  Assuming the staff would permit such a thing, which I hope they would not.  Second, and this is common sense, people in a psychiatric hospital are doing pretty poorly, emotionally, and are not likely to cheer up when someone tells them they are supposed to be happy, because it's Christmas.  

Many patients have a lot of negative feelings about Christmas to begin with, for various reasons but including the fact that severe depression or other mental illness can make Christmas very unpleasant, especially when problems go untreated over a period of years.

"Normal" people singing carols can be a painful reminder that the healthy are at home, while we are in the hospital, separated from our families.

I'm not saying all patients would hate it:  how do I know?  Maybe some would love it.  But, I have experienced and read enough about the "holiday blues," which can become really serious, to know that singing to people in hospitals is not the panacea he portrays it as being.

Then there's the whole "hundred-dollar" aspect; being completely arbitrary, that guideline didn't do anything for me.

Finally, there is a crucial question he leaves out:  the risk for social embarrassment and in extreme cases, social rejection of children who do not receive presents commensurate with their friends.  Many children are surrounded by peers whose parents will probably never adopt this approach.  How to prevent malicious teasing is a serious question that is not considered here.

But it is useful for those wanting a simple, quick read that reinforces the spiritual value of Christmas.

I think his heart is in the right place.  He is a compassionate person and he is raising his children to be compassionate also.  He sees the emptiness of excessive materialism.  I find that the author revealed himself to be a truly good person, but didn't present the most thought-through strategy.  As a starting point to inspire others, though, it's great
