Huntington's notorious observations about Mexicans are only one component of how insidious this book is, and they need to be taken in the context of the larger, generally chauvinistic vision that the book promotes.  This book, packaged as a scholarly work, is actually a piece of populism and of zealotry.  It is populism because it argues for a plain truth that "the people," "the patriotic public," can see, which the "denationalized elites" (a term he uses frequently) are trying to subvert.  It is zealotry because he cannot see past the glories of "Anglo-Protestant culture," and the only concerns that he expresses about America's future are over factors which might threaten to contaminate "Anglo-Protestant culture."  

He shows that he is aware of the persistence of American racism, but there is not one sentence in the book which expresses concern for the importance of reducing or eliminating racism in the future (though yes, the book does have numerous disclaimers to racism and numerous expressions of approval of the civil rights movement and a multiracial population).  In his discussion of immigrants, there is not one sentence in the book which expresses concern for the importance of immigrants receiving fair treatment in the United States.  When it comes to treatment of immigrants, the only concern that he shows is over the difference between permissiveness for nonassimilation versus insistence that immigrants assimilate.  He writes of the binary between assimilation and non-assimilation in simplistic terms which show complete contempt for those historians and sociologists who have written volumes on the complexity of the issues of cultural adaptation.  He also writes of nationalism, not as something that is healthy in moderate doses tempered with other considerations, but as something which cannot possibly come in excess or have its dangers, and which should not be tempered with any other considerations whatsoever.  He actually seems to want those who do not share his vision to be second-class citizens.

Let me point out two spots where the fanaticism of this book is evident.

First, open to 310, where he defines nativism and suggest that one has to be a "denationalized elite" to oppose nativism and then invokes the late historian John Higham.  Look at how Huntington himself characterizes nativism on that page, and see what you think of the implication that anybody who isn't a "denationalized elite" must think nativism is a wonderful thing.  As a bonus, get Higham's actual book, "Strangers in the Land," thumb through it quickly, and get a sense of what tone he actually took about nativism back in 1955.

Second, go back to 270.  Read the sentence referring to historian Cecilia O'Leary and take close notice of the context of the overall paragraph.  Then, get your hands on the piece of hers to which Huntington refers.  It's the chapter she contributed to John Bodnar, ed., "Bonds of Affection."  Read her chapter, reread Huntington's characterization of it, and it should dispel any notions that Huntington makes any serious effort to understand the writings of scholars who don't share his zealotry.  To give a little preview, Huntington gives the impression that O'Leary offers a stridently negative personal attitude about patriotism.  Her piece is actually a historical study of the form that patriotism took in the years from 1865 to 1920.  Huntington is suggesting that she must be unpatriotic to say such things.  Please read her chapter and see if this holds water.

Huntington has been a distinguished scholar longer than I've even been alive.  He has lofty titles at Harvard coming out of his ears, and he has a seemingly daunting list of books and journal articles to his name over the years.  That just makes this book all the more appalling:  his zealotry won out over his intelligence.  He has utterly disgraced himself by writing this book.  

If you're reading this, Prof. Huntington, be assured:  you haven't seen the last of my name.  This is just the prelude; I'm working on a much longer critique of your manifesto of intolerance. 

