Election 2004, works as a good primer to one of the most important presidential campaigns in US history. Yet Newsweek did a less than fair job in its reporting from both camps.

E-04 could have used a bit more editorial help as well as a bias check; it doesn't flow very well and overlooks important things, ignoring some downright. I do think that the criticisms directed against Kerry were slanted; I was so un-happy with Newsweek's coverage that I actually dropped my subscription. It is no coincidence either that most of the books recommended in this website along with this one are favorable to the right. To be fair, this book does report on Kerry's own unfavorable response to Newsweek' coverage; a gesture of intellectual honesty Thomas should be given credit for. 

More would have been appreciated about Kerry's ill-conceived campaign and lack of message and Rove's focused, dirty and eventually successful, tricks. The Swift Boat Veterans for Truth; an obvious re-visitation of veterans against McCain in 2000 don't get the right coverage. Neither does Kerry's refusal to go against Bush's personal attacks, and failure to address the plethora of Bush's mistakes in the last two months, which decidedly cost him the election. We get very little on these points from the book. In one of the mildly insightful moments, Thomas reports that the electorate had a hard-time distinguishing Kerry's position on the war from Bush's, and consequently voted for the more stable looking candidate. This I thought was a very accurate point. 

As a pet peeve, I always bought the whole Kerry's "Come-Back Kid" attitude, I even heard some of his former opponents on the right praise him for it. This book debunks it, and informs us this was just a campaign myth his people were trying to promote, which looking back on, makes sense.  

One of the conclusions in E-04 was that Kerry lost partly as a result of his comments on Mary Cheney on the third debate (this is suggested and not said outright). This is just not true; although Kerry's comment was un-called for and served no purpose (I winced when he said it), I don't think that so much of the electorate was so turned off by it that they ended up voting for Bush, who ran on an anti-gay marriage platform. How much sense does that make? This assessment shows a lack of touch with the real issues on the part of Newsweek. In the following weeks the Republican camp did a lot to discredit Kerry on this point, but it is not pointed out by E-04 that Alan Keyes, a conservative republican running for the senate seat against Obama in Illinois had called Mary Cheney a "selfish hedonist" and received nary a comment from the now -conveniently- outraged Cheneys. This should have been noted in the book. I don't need Newsweek to editorialize, but I do want perspective. 

Then there's Ohio. Although I'm not one for conspiracy theories there was obvious foul play in the weeks preceding and on election day; from Secretary of State Blackwell's flip-flapping on voting regulations, to the Rove people calling people in strong democratic precincts by phone and advising them to vote at the wrong places, to the lack of a voting records paper trail. Yes, there are irregularities on every election, but when all the irregularities favor the same candidate, I get a bit skeptical. Alas, this subject seemed too controversial for Newsweek.

Newsweek's coverage fails for one of these counts; they were either so engrossed in the process of reporting that they overlooked what for them, and not the electorate, was obvious, or they got so close to the campaigns they were covering that their judgment was impaired. I felt I was better informed by other sources during the election.

Campaign 2004 is at best an ok primer and at worst, a slightly biased account in need of some editorial cohesion.

