I have only heard of (and heard of and heard of) the left behind series. I wanted to start with book 1, so at my local library, this was the best I could do, until book 1 of the original series comes available at my lib.

The narration/production of the 9 cd audio book is horrible. The point of view of the author is good and the story, for someone with no contact with the plot of left Behind, kept me interested but boy do they drag it out for the first 7 cd's. 

And the writing!! The writing stinks on ice. 

It is a testament for how badly people of faith crave modern literature that endorses their point of view that the series sells in the trillions. 

There is a huge almost totally untapped market for books that take a faith-positive approach. 

It became very clear around 1/3 of the way through that this book was written to continue to feed the demand for these books and nothing else.

The imagery is as empty and barren as can be. The only character that held my interest was Rayford. None of the other characters, and I mean none were interesting in the slightest and the writing just dragged and dragged. A 2nd year college liberal arts student could more reliably deliver the goods than whoever this pair is. Awful. Embarrassing.

Finally, near the end, they realized that they had filled enough pages to satisfy the publisher and put the foot to the gas on developing the plot, such as it was. The character of Nicolae's mother, Marilena, is about the dullest, emptiest, non-dimensional character in any book I can recall. I seriously would laugh AT some of the narrative. There are parts that are worthy of an SNL skit, they are so over the top and corny. She can't realize why her son doesn't love her. "Hello!!! you Sold your ******g soul to have a child sent by Satan. Were you expecting Ricky Nelson?" Sheeeshhh. Dime store novels got nothing on this.

Having said all that, I will attempt to obtain the original series starting with the 1st book and see if the authors just had  a bad day at the office with "The Rising". 

Stay away from this
