Mullen's debut novel, about how the 1918 Spanish influenza epidemic affected the fictional town of Commonwealth, Washington, located at some unknown distance northeast of Seattle, is a perfect example of how NOT to write about a plague. Although the premise is intriguing and based on fact (the author notes that residents of some uninfected towns did block roads and post armed guards), neither the writing nor the plot is compelling enough to keep the reader's interest. Sixteen-year-old Philip, adopted son of the town's founder, mill owner, and leader Charles Worthy, and his feminist wife Rebecca (not supportive of the quarantine because it goes against their original goal in establishing the town - to show the world how it can be improved) is allowed to stand guard with twenty-five-year-old mill worker Graham, who he looks up to like an older brother. Shots are fired during an encounter with a tired, starving, unarmed-soldier who is hungrier than he is cautious, at which point the plot begins to really unravel.

Believing that potentially letting people die by unnecessarily exposing them to a virulent flu versus protecting them from it would "improve" the world - is not smart reasoning. Letting a teenager continue to guard the town after the firing of the initial shots ends badly - is not smart parenting. Kissing a person who might be infected - is not smart thinking. Not filling out the necessary paperwork required to legally become classified as an "essential worker" is not smart citizenship. Not developing your characters enough to compel the reader to care one way or another if any particular person dies and providing so little imagery that readers know only that the town contains tall trees - is not smart writing. Luckily for readers, however, another author, Geraldine Brooks, IS a smart writer. Her novel of the 1666 Bubonic plague, Year of Wonders, contains more character development and imagery in its first few chapters than Mullen's does in its entire length, not to mention the fact that it is also interesting and believable. Equally smart writing of a different genre can be found in John M. Barry's non-fiction book about the 1918 flu, entitled The Great Influenza. Choosy readers will choose Year of Wonders and The Great Influenza over The Last Town on Earth.

