CS Goto is a reasonable author. Not great, not horrible, but mediocre. As standalone novels I may even enjoy his books, but in the context of Warhammer and the Black Library his books are less than useless. Having read more than one hundred novels put out by BL I find his books useless, misleading and downright nausea-inducing. Generally it's considered necessary for an author to know... well, at least something about the universe he writes for, if only to prevent his readers from thinking him a fool. Mr. Goto obviously never discovered this step. His books cannot even begin to be considered canonical in the context of the Warhammer 40k universe and are an embarassment to the Black Library. If you enjoy BL books purchase something by Abnett (known for occasional exaggerations, but still a great author and a much better source of information than Goto) or Graham McNeil or any of the other fine stable of authors that BL enjoys. I personally guarantee you that if you read Goto's books and compare them to those of any other author in BL you will find his writings to be nonsensical and possibly offensive.

I beg of you, Mr. Goto, please don't write any more Warhammer 40k books. Think of the trees you'll save. Think, for that matter, of the children who- having read your books as an introduction to the Black Library, will be laughed at and harassed mercilessly for having believed the inane farce that is your current body of work. Think of the players who enjoy the tabletop game so much they want to read stories in the 40k universe and never read another BL novel again after having perused your work. I have no desire to offend you Mr. Goto, but you must understand that you are currently considered a sick joke by what passes as a literary community for your chosen universe.

I beg of you, Mr. Goto, have a conscience. Barring that, if you'd like to make more than a paltry royalty you must write in another universe, either of your own making or borrowed from someone else. I understand that Shatner's Tekworld could use an author of your talents
