Let me start off, by saying that I am a huge Dean Koontz fan, especially of his work in the 80's and 90's when he really blew up. So, when you read this review, don't think that I'm an ignorant hater. Because I am not. I just give you my thoughts about this book. Here goes:

Y'all know what the book is about so I am not going to repeat it all over again. Jimmy Tock and the 5 horrible days that he will meet throughout his life.

I thought the book was awful and most of all- ridiculous. And I will tell you why. There was no credibility in the characters whatsoever. Usually DK does a great job in creating credible characters. Well, he totally blew it this time. Why? Because ALL of the characters are acting like idiot. There is NO WAY that Jimmy, his wife Lorrie, and his familly can act with so much humour in every single situation. Every single time Jimmy and his wife face a horrible situation, their worst enemies and when they are close to dying, it seems like they've got something funny and sophisticated to say. I mean, come on! That's just stupid! You're one step away from getting killed and all you can do is tell jokes and act like an idiot? That was totally annoying! All throughout the book, jokes and jokes in the worst situation. I know it's just a book of fiction, but the characters still need to be believable. Well, in this book, they ARE NOT. 

The plot itself isn't so bad, but it's not good either. Especially the last few chapters, where everything is getting clearer - well the end doesn't make a lot of sense either, and it's like Koontz made an end for little kids or teenagers who haven't read a lot of books and don't know what a good book is. The end, when they meet their worst enemy is almost like the end of a soap opera - an ending that doesn't really make sense (and of course you get a lot of those stupid supposed-to-be-sophisticated jokes from the annoying Tock familly).

So, I am sorry for ripping this book appart, but to me it was a piece of trash. I just had to read it till the end, because I was on a vacation in Thailand and I couldn't find a good book at that time. Plus I wanted to see how low DK could go. It seemed (at least on that book) that he was tired of writing long books with a lot of developements and he just rushed this book with its ridiculous characters.
2 stars and that's generous of me. A waste of time. Get DK's books from the 80's and 90's instead
