"The Archaeology of Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrolls" is somewhat of a misnomer. The book is a species of archaeological apology for the Essene Hypothesis, the belief that Qumran was a sectarian settlement.  In Tel Aviv 27 (2000) Jodi Magness and David Amit presented a response to Yizhar Hirschfeld's "A Settlement of Hermits above `En Gedi" to which Hirschfeld provided a rejoinder (not cited in Magness's bibliographic notes) in which he mentioned two methodological flaws in their response, the first, "the erroneous use of sectarian writings found at Qumran as a historical source for analysis of the archaeology of the Essenes" and the second, "the indiscriminant application of Josephus's general descriptions of the Essenes to the Essenes of the Judean Desert." Magness is still working under the same misconception, ie that she can assume that the similarities (with the site and with Josephus's reports of the Essenes) found in the "sectarian" scrolls are sufficient to presume that the texts represent the Essenes and the site.

As a functional alternative hypothesis to the Essene production of the scrolls has been put forward, ie that the scrolls came from Jerusalem religious circles, one must wonder how Magness can opt for a hypothesis which explains fewer of the facts manifested regarding the scrolls, such as why there are at least 700 scribal hands visible in the 850 scrolls, or why the (elected) leaders of a celibate community should be hereditarily defined as the "sons of Zadok", or why so many of the features we learn about the Essenes from classical sources are contradicted in the scrolls or the archaeology.

For the last of these though an interesting fudge has been employed regarding Josephus, ie that he reports only those things that took his fancy and not the whole truth. This means that when one comes across something which apparently contradicts Josephus's indications, such as a toilet within the settlement, one can say that Josephus wasn't interested in such mundane things or perhaps simply didn't know about it. But this type of analysis then leads to arbitrary choice of which facts suits one's theories.

The toilet should be a warning to Magness to rethink her analysis, yet she has attempted to defend it at least four times in print (this being merely the latest), recognizing that its presence contradicts the classical information we know about the Essenes. Worse than the toilet is her analysis of the large room she calls a dining room. This is because in the room next door there were found a thousand odd eating bowls and assorted ceramic wares, so it must have been a "pantry". It is incredible enough that her sources advocate about 120-150 diners, meaning that these diners must have had at least four bowls each, considering Josephus tells us "the cook serves only one bowlful of one dish to each man." (BJ 2,8,5; 2.131), but more reasonable estimates of the population of Qumran based on analyses of archaeologist Joseph Patrich would be 20-50, meaning around twelve bowls per person. Yet more incredible, if this were a dining room, is the location of the kitchen which is on the other side of the settlement. Obviously we are not dealing with a dining room, and the room next door simply wasn't a "pantry". Qumran had at least two potter's kilns in operation and was a producer of ceramics. The wares found in the pantry were a store of fresh pottery which was destroyed by an earthquake. There was another, smaller store of pottery found near the round cistern as well.

(Patrich surveyed the flat areas around Qumran but found no sign of tell-tale traces of permanent tent dwelling; he also checked most of the caves for evidence of permanent living; but in both cases the lack of evidence spoke against the possibility. This led Hanan Eshel and Magen Broshi to propose that the elusive Essenes must have lived elsewhere in caves most of which are now destroyed, but they have as yet provided any solid evidence.)

Though I have mentioned only a few, there are in fact so many problems brought about by Magness's apology for the Essenes it prevents her, despite her vast knowledge of the archaeology, from giving a reasoned presentation of Qumran archaeology. She is unable to contemplate any of those theories she sets out to belittle. Yet if it weren't for the Donceels' erroneous analysis of Qumran as a villa (occasioned by their effort to understand the anomalies of the site which lay hidden in de Vaux's notes), we would not be in a better position to understand Qumran as an economic centre that it should be seen as today. Archaeologists are rethinking Qumran. Hirschfeld now has a book, "Qumran in Perspective", which reviews all the archaeology of Qumran and presents a rather different interpretation. Yitzak Margen and Yuval Peleg have found more evidence that we are dealing with a well-to-do settlement.

"The Archaeology of Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrolls" is a reactionary book which doesn't help us understand Qumran. It is too busy saying why other theories are wrong, due to the author's adoption of her variety of the status quo theory. It does have a few good chapters at the end of the book which are less involved in her apology and more to do with archaeology. The book also has some good diagrams to help one understand the different zones of the site and their local developments. I recommend that this book be read with caution, as it is very hard to find a single fact unadorned with polemic
