Virtually unreadable, and really not worth the effort.  Certainly that designation has been applied to the entire oeuvre of this, America's poet laureate of the South, but this novel at least lends some strength to that criticism.  This is Faulkner at his worst, employing his obfuscatory style to hide the fact that he has very little to say.  The plot revolves around a down-and-out newspaper reporter who shows up to cover a traveling air show in the sleepy fictional southern town of New Valois in the early 20th Century.  He finds himself drawn into the personal lives of a family of barnstormers (two husbands, one wife, and one son), and plenty of hard drinking, brawling and barnstorming ensues.  Faulkner was always fascinated by airplanes, and readers who are old enough to remember those halcyon days might find this a fascinating   reminiscence of a somewhat sordid era in aviation history.  But ultimately, this story is about the culture clash between the reporter, who cares about people too much, and the aviators, who care only about the amazing machines that they daily risk their lives in.  Sadly, this man vs. machine conflict is badly dated, even by 20th Century standards, and doesn't fully succeed on any level.

Of course one has to admire the sheer technical mastery of Faulkner's writing, but much of the real emotional power of his work usually comes from his use of archetypes:  the Earth Mother, the Mighty Hunter, the Soulless Businessman, the Righteously Angry Negro, the Guileless Innocent, etc.., and these archetypes not only make the story more significant - mythic, even - but they often help guide us through the complexities of the plot.  In this novel the characters seem not only very specific, but very small; they are neither familiar nor important.  Careful readers may be able to follow the plot of this novel, but there seems little enough impetus to bother doing so.  We care less about this particular group of losers than any such in Faulkner.  So while this drunken tale of planes, money and desire may find favor with completists, the rest of us would do better to get our Faulkner fix by re-reading one of his magnificent Yoknapatawpha County classics
