First off, the graphic novel is and will be better than a movie, novelization, play, interpretative dance, or whatever other form you want to put it in. Why? Because graphic novels/comics are a medium which cannot duplicated. As a reader you are much more actively involved in the story than passively watching a movie. With the page in your hand you may stare at it as long as you like, flip it upside down, flip back to a page previous, or any other number of things us crazy folks do who read these wonderful masterpieces of our time. 

To correct the person who, incorrectly, pointed to the artist of this work (Mr. David Lloyd) as disapproving of the film, it was not the artist who protested it's creation, it was the author, Mr. Alan Moore. Just as he has with the other hideously molested adaptations of his work (From Hell, Leauge of Extraordinary Gentleman) he did not want to have anything to with this million dollar money trap. He has several reasons which you may find out by simply searching for any number of interviews with him, but basically he does not approve of this and all other big budget, no substance movies that are produced solely for the purpose of extorting money from   parents through their children, while offering no real meaning or substance other than an orgy of explosions and bastardizations of once meaningful tales. He gives his portion of the proceeds to the artists involved.

Also in the correction department, this series began in 1982 and was published until 1985 in the UK's Warrior magazine, alongside other great works such as Marvelman (originally being in black and white). Upon the success of Moore in the mid to late eighties, with such work as Watchmen and his revitalization of the Swamp Thing series, DC decided to 'resurrect' V and thus Moore and Lloyd continued the series to its conclusion. 

If you want to experience V for Vendetta the way it was meant to be, go to your local comic shop and pick up a copy of the trade, you won't be disappointed (unless you're a mindless idiot who eats up whatever bs movie comes down the pike for whatever mindless reason, in that case there's no hope anyway, how'd you even get to this webpage??). 


"Hello the Voice of Fate and V for Vendetta.
