"A startling piece of detective work," says the Amazon book description, "that combines history, literary criticism, esoterica and archaeology, Genesis of the Grail Kings is the ultimate story of earthly kingship from its Mesopotamian foundation."  

Well, yeah, sort of. 

I have been expanding my mind with crackpot literature for many years and I must say that this is as fine an example of such bilge as I have ever seen. It starts off with a bang, being forwarded by "HRH [no less!] Prince Nicholas de Vere KGC, KCD / Princeps Draconis, Sovereign Grand Master / and Magister Templi of Sarkany Bend / The Imperial and Royal Dragon Court and Order".  Well, I'm impressed.  Sure I am.  Although I can only wonder why HRH has not also taken on the duties of Master of the Buckhounds, Groom of the Back Stairs, Archbishop of Titipu, and Lord Mayor, both acting and elect.  

Gardner casts a wide net.  He offers aliens from outer space who may or may not have originated on a Kuiper Belt object with an orbital period of 360 (or perhaps 3600) years and who may have interfered with human evolution in some not quite specified way about 6,000 years ago to create--ta-dah!--Adam and Eve.  These aliens, of course, were the immortal gods of the earliest Mesopotamians who have ... well ... died out, leaving behind a line of alien/divinely appointed kings to reign over nothing much down to this very day.

I'm not making this up, you know!

Gardener also offers a revised history of the text of the Bible which, among other things, proves pretty conclusively that God did not dictate it to King James after all.  

Gardener is also very big on offering the TRUTH.  Since the TRUTH is radically inconsistent with the writings of a couple of millenniums of historians and four centuries of post-Renaissance scholarship, Gardener politely corrects them all.  

And he throws in other goodies, too.  Consider this passage from page 204 of the paperback edition: "Another feature of the white powder [the Philosopher's Stone] is that even its 56 per cent substance (that is the sample excluding the 44 per cent light content) can be made to disappear completely from sight, moving itself into another dimension. At that stage of experimentation (which, incidentally, can be wholly reversed) not only does the invisible substance weigh less than nothing but the pan in which it was  sitting also registers less than its zero point starting weight.  This particular aspect of the fire stone's has some stunning consequences, as will be discovered when the latter stages of our investigation move into the anti-gravitational sciences of  ancient Egypt."

Now, THAT's what I call top of the line woo-woo!  (An opinion which, incidentally, cannot be reversed at all.)

As book-length ravings go, this one is actually rather entertaining.  It contains a considerable amount of information, both accurate and new.  

The accurate information includes details about the development of the currently accepted text of the Bible and the contents of a substantial number of cuneiform inscriptions from Mesopotamia.  A hundred and fifty years ago, when this was first published by hard-headed, sharp-eyed scholars, mostly of the German persuasion who were known as the higher critics, it was hot news.  

Gardener's new gems of information, the experiments disproving the universal attraction of gravity, the long, long genealogies largely supported by moonstruck etymology, the literal truth of the venerable ages of the Biblical patriarchs and the even longer-lived antediluvian kings of Sumer, the oddly incompetent god-aliens from space, the endless riffs about the nature of myths and historical research, they are all woo-woo.

Just plain, sweet woo-woo masquerading as something useful
