The perspective of John Crossan is just another attempt to interpret history to suit an agenda. This agenda has been posited by other authors today that relay facts that are either only excerpts, thus revealing only a vague half-story that they then build their mistaken interpretation on, or they blatantly make illogical statements. 

In particular, Crossan states that empires, like Rome or even America, are guided by the premise of "victory and peace", namely that they aggressively engage war, achieve victory and then acquire peace. This he says is like Augustus' Pax Romana, which he sees as a false type of peace because it was achieved through bloody war. He even goes so far as to insinuate barbarism in their motives. Meanwhile, he states that the Christian movement was guided by the premise of "justice and peace", namely that non-violent and just methods were utilized to achieve peace. 

This all sounds so clean and perfect on paper BUT the crux of his deeply flawed perspective is that it took place not on paper but in the real world. Crossan, and others like him, posit an ideological philosophy of peace that sits securely on parchment but has never worked in practice, as the real world is imbued with many variables, such as nepotism, greed, and even alien, non-assimilating factions that never make this beautiful ideal reach fruition. This ideal he speaks of sounds wonderful, and I personally would love it if such a mindset could pervade the entire world, but anyone who knows history knows that it never did and never will. All one needs to do is look how Jihadist radical Muslims think, and how their innate and intense hatred of the Christian and Jewish infidels makes this dream of peaceful harmony a complete and total impossibility. 

Crossan also wrongly criticizes ancient people and civilizations that fought to survive. As he points out, Augustus knew he could not penetrate Germany, and as such, he even offered the sound advice for his successors to not attempt such a risky maneuver. Augustus was smart enough to know that strength and longevity of a nation only have a chance if that nation is sizable and strong enough to ward off attacks, because the REAL barbarians of the ancient world just so happened to be the Germans, who lived in mud huts and lived like animals. This Crossan is too blind to see, for it was Rome that bequeathed to Western Civilization its strong foundation for survival. This foundation was for a real world that is perpetually inundated with real barbarians. The Founding Fathers of America were wise enough to follow that precedent, and hence that is why America is the world leader it is today. Likewise, ancient leaders, like Augustus, cannot and must not be judged by modern standards. Even religious prophets such as Moses condoned slavery, so who is Crossan or anyone else today to criticize these ancient people that lived in a much different world? Their lack of understanding this basic principle makes them unsuited for writing about history. 

Likewise, his attacks on Roman civilization for aggressively fighting for conquest can easily be countered with the bloody Crusades or the Inquisition, which as the famous historian William Durant pointed out, killed more fellow Christians than all the Roman persecutions against Christians combined. So, please, never forget that.

The bottom line is that Crossan's benevolent view is deeply flawed, as it attempts to eradicate the evil of mankind, which has reared its ugly face in both the secular and Christian realms. Even the Bible states that not all people are deserving of salvation, henceforth, evil is a reality that will be with mankind forever. Therefore, his pious attitude towards Christianity and his vile criticisms towards Rome or even the New Rome (America) are idyllic in nature and profoundly erroneous when applied to nature
