This is a book that focuses on slavery as a system of paternalism.  It tries hard but in its efforts reduces slaves to one dimensional caricatures who have bought into and welcome the system of slavery.  I read this in college and the way slaves were described as being invested in this system seemed even then such a shallow stereotypic view.

He seems to forget that being owned by someone with absolute power over their existence has an effect on how slaves acted.  We have modern examples of this (Stockholm's Syndrome) and how life threatening situations can change you psychologically and impact your view of your oppressors.

African-American history is too important to ignore and there are books out there that are well researched and give a more complete picture of the realities of slavery; exploring the impact of this system on the people enslaved while not buying into paternalistic stereotypes.  

Some titles worth reading:

Black Majority: Negroes in Colonial South Carolina from 1670 through the Stono Rebellion by Peter H. Wood 

Slave Resistance and Early African American History by Peter P. Hinks

To Awaken My Afflicted Brethren:  David Walker and the Problem of Antebellum Slave Resistance by Peter P. Hinks

Both Wood and Hinks are excellent historians. I took a class with Peter Hinks in college the major focus of his scholarship is on slave resistance and in class he argued that Walker's appeal was not only important on its face but because it was widely circulated by both free and enslaved Africans that it inspired plans for insurrection maybe even Vesey's plan.

Labor of Love Labor of Sorrow by Jacqueline Jones

Jones has a good history of African-American Women focusing on slavery and reconstruction but at times it drags.

Writings of former slaves and freedmen:

David Walkers Appeal to the Colored Citizens of the World by David Walker

The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano or Gustavus Vassa the African by Olaudah Equiano

Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl by Harriet Jacobs

Slave Narratives (Library of America) by William L. Andrews and Henry Louis Gates

Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass by Fredrick Douglass  

Nothing can compare to reading autobiographic accounts of those who were forced to endure slavery, all of the above are excellent; the only exception above is David Walker's Appeal (it is not an auto-biography) it is a political and spiritual indictment of slave owners and a call for the enslaved to rise up against this immoral paternalistic system in the name of God.  Walker was an uncompromising radical political voice at a time when it was extremely unhealthy.

I think this book (Roll Jordan Roll) is o.k. but hopefully the suggestions given for other options will either or supplement this dated choice or replace it.
