OK, when I first started reading this book, I enjoyed it.  And I thought I would really enjoy where it was going.  I actually recommended it to several friends (a recommendation I now regret).  That opinion changed rather quickly as the book continued on and on without much to say.

The book started off with Chapman briefly explaining why he thinks some of us feel more connected to God in certain ways (ie., study, worship, prayer, ...).  He argues that this is a result of each of us having a primary love language.  And consequently we relate to God best in our own language.  This was, in my opinion, a very promising insight.  It goes a long way in explaining why my wife and I have different responses to worship and service.  To her, service is a joy, worship is a duty.  To me, it's vice versa.  I think Chapman was on to something.

He then goes on, in the next five chapters, to show how God displays each of the five love languages.  These chapters, although not very insightful, do offer decent support for his original theory.  Unfortunately, however, the book could have ended right here.  Because after this, the next 5 or so chapters seem like one big promotion for Chapman's Five Love Languages book(s) and lecture series.

I also felt as though Chapman was searching for something significant to write about in these closing chapters.  He seems to have run out of material for his original thesis and now just begins writing about anything that relates to love.  Which reminds me, the chapter on discipline was very disappointing.  At one point Chapman actually suggests that a man lost his children as a judgement of God.  Now, I'm not going to debate God's sovereignty in all things nor suggest that God does not have the right over life and death.  But to claim that this man losing his children was judgement from God is a leap of faith I'm not going to take.

All in all, the book is poor, but not terrible.  If you keep in mind that Chapman is a psychologist and not a theologian, you may find some very helpful information here.  But don't expect any grand revelations concerning love or God in this book
