After reading and enjoying Tropper's The Book of Joe, I decided to go back in time and read his first novel, Plan B.

A good casual read, no doubt, but certainly not as fully realized as his later novels.

The plan B of the title refers to four college friends, all turning 30. They kidnap a fifth friend to force his detox from a coke habit. This could have been a much edgier, grittier plot, but these characters are from relatively privileged backgrounds. So the cokehead's "prison" is a study in an unused family vaction home in upstate New York. On a lake with geese. And woods. So much for grit.

Tropper's true gift is for the dialog of the semi-disaffected, semi-bitter, late 20-something. Two characters in particular, Ben (new divorce and aspiring writer), and Chuck (desperate playboy and aspiring surgeon) carry the novel's verbal thread to the end, keeping up a steady stream of bitter, witty banter. This is to the detriment of the development of the two female characters, Alison (wealthy attorney with good breeding), and Lindsey (drifting sometime teacher).

Alison and Lindsey come off as relatively two-dimensional characters. I was disappointed by this, as they are in pretty much every scene. (On the other hand, this makes the novel ripe for a screen treatment.) Alison is hopelessly in (unrequited) love with Jack (cokehead action hero actor), and she never really develops beyond that. We do learn that men think she is "hot" (see earlier screen treatment comment) - a not so helpful comment for fleshing out a main character, as the whole kidnapping idea is hers. Lindsey is relatively banal and somewhat meanspirited. She too is described as "hot" (see above parenthetical snark).

Essentially, this is a novel about friendship and the plan b's in life that we all go through around age 30. And I think the book is successful on the friendship level. However, I felt generally let down when I flipped the last page. Lindsey and Alison both solve their problems by falling in love, or out of love, respectively - defining themselves through men, when they both obviously need to finish defining themselves alone. Ben, Chuck and Jack all end up with great career boosting plans as solutions to their problems. I'm not trying to get all feminazi here, but it seems rather facile.

I'm going to attribute plot problems to this being Tropper's first novel. Overall, it wasn't horrible, but I'm glad I read The Book of Joe first, otherwise, I would not have chosen this one
