Let me first off admit that I haven't read this entire book, just some carefully chosen excerpts. But what I have seen is certainly cause for concern, regardless of the rest of the book's content. Oriana Fallaci's ideas, however genuinely felt, condemn an entire culture. She does not recognize good in any Muslims. She dismisses every piece of art and literature created outside the west. She propagates that idea that about 1.2 billion brown people across the globe are bent on destroying those who love freedom and peace. People applaud Fallaci for giving voice to their prime fear: that a significantly large group wants to, and has the means to, rip apart their way of life. What really frightens me is the arrogance that allows such generalizations to spread. 

Of course America cannot be blamed for any attack on its soil. Our nation never, ever errs. Bin Laden did not release a document in 1998 explaining his objections to the destructive presence of U.S. troops in the Middle East, the unfair economic imbalance in the world, and our policy bias against the Palestinians. 

I am not saying that blowing up 3,000 people is a justifiable solution. But the notion that any attack against our country is a result of our innate superiority- that is one I cannot accept. And I cannot accept praise for blatant prejudice against an ethnic group, simply because this woman is being "honest." A better description of her writing might be "defensive": "I do not need to defend their culture. I'm defending mine." "I am fraudulently called a racist, when this is not about race, it is about religion." I wonder how many times she read the Koran. I wonder if she knew that the Koran speaks against murder. I wonder if she acknowledged that the Bible has been used for centuries to justify murder and rape on a massive scale. She writes of Muslims from long ago enslaving her ancestors. I wonder if she understands how many people worldwide were enslaved by Italians, and that everyone at some point wronged another nation. 

Whenever I sit and ponder these questions, my mind always returns to one thing: pure fear. Her own, and mine, incited by the many positive reactions to this book. It is terrifying to discover that hundreds of thousands of people could delude themselves into a self-importance complex that threatens innocent lives. So Oriana Fallaci is the new voice of the west, stripped of all its politically correct restraints? Count me out of this hemisphere. I hope that her angry, angry soul finds a little peace in the afterlife, and that something is done to lessen the fury in the hearts of her ignorant followers. 
