I bought this book for my wife but after having looked at it I should have bought some flowers instead.

The book was bilge water but for those who watch the gurus of e-marketing the classic formula for e-book selling has been followed to the letter.

Really great ad copy to move the book (sell the sizzle not the steak) and use the book as a thinly veiled advertisement pushing the products of all the gurus who "generously" supplied content. 

For the unititiated I would suggest this. Go to each of the websites of those marketers mentioned in the book or the teaser copy. What you will find is the same names popping up on all of the different websites. This is because they each act as an endorsement for the others product. 

Go to Mitch's website and you will see the "usual suspects" endorsing this book as the greatest thing since sliced bread. Then go to one of their's and you will find Mitch endorsing their product as the greatest thing since sliced bread. It takes a while to spot the mechanics but before to long you to will learn the secrect too cross-plugging and expert endorsements for fame and fortune.

It reminds me a little of the old Shakesperian acting troupes where the same five or six actors toured together. In each play it was the same actors only playing different parts.

I also suspect that those who have provided glowing reviews are either new to this game or are schmoozing for an endorsement of their own product by one of the big fish.

Bottom line- save your money. And remember how this game works the next time you get one of those "You've just got to see this" emails touting a new product from one of the "usual suspects".

This is how you take dishwater and turn it into an overnight best seller. Which ever one of these guys who's turn it is to shear the sheep this month simply has the other guys who are waiting their turn at bat blast their mail list with a glowing revue and a "to good to resist" offer. The groupies and the newbies fork out the shekels enmasse while the gurus begin work on their sheep shearing best seller
