What is this Lincoln cult that Dilorenzo speaks of?  Last time I checked, pro-Southeners like Shelby Foote (RIP) were saying the same admiring things about Lincoln as all the Lincoln jock riders that DiLorenzo despises so much.

Seriously, I have no problem with bringing Lincoln to task for his mistakes -- but this guy seems to know absolutely nothing about the political and social context of the civil war years. 

Secession is legal:  Even the doughfaces in Buchanan's cabinet though the union unbreakable--as did most of Lincoln's own party.  Secession is criminal -- so said James Madison.  If he doesn't know what's constitutional, who does?  Read Chisholm vs Georgia 1793, McCullough vs Maryland 1819.  Or Webster.  Or better yet, Andrew Jackson.

Tariffs:  The total revenues of the Federal government in 1860 amounted to $56 million with a population of 34 million.  Federal taxation per capita amounted to less than $2 per person.  Yes, the Slavocracy were lightly taxed on luxury goods imported into the south -- goods that they "earned" by wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces.  Then again, the Federal government before the war lost close to 9 million dollars every year delivering mail in the south because of decaying roads and an archaic transportation system. (They profited heavily in the more modernized north.)  What's funnier than hell is that the Confederacy itself placed tariffs on exports. Hypocritical. 

civil liberties:  Yes, evil King Lincoln suspended habeas corpus -- actually he was goaded into it by Seward, who feared an invasion of the capitol.  Jefferson Davis suspended habeas corpus, too.  What does Dilorenzo think about that?  Unfortunately, Dilorenzo hardly ever brings up the virtual identical actions of the Confederacy or the fact that liberty was stepping on even harder during the Revolutionary War (thanks, in no small part, to Dilorenzo's hero, Thomas Jefferson (read Jefferson and Civil Liberties: The Dark Side).  

Jeff Davis -- responsible for conscription, martial law, suspending habeas corpus, shutting down newspapers and making southerners carry id cards.  Confederate jails were filled with men like Parson Brownlow of the Knoxville Whig, who rotted in one of the Confederacy's "libertarian" prisons for two years for describing the average southern soldier as brainwashed by the Slavocracy, dirt poor yet bragging that he should be allowed to bring his slaves into the territories.

colonization:  Actually DiLorenzo's hero Thomas Jefferson, in one of his more antislavery moments, was the first president to mention colonization as an effective solution to the race problem.  Lincoln went along with it -- even the most militant abolitionists like Chase supported colonization -- publicly until he got Northerns to grudgingly accept the idea of enlisting black troops, then never spoke of colonization again.


