The author is a former correspondent for the Wall Street Journal.  And he's advancing a thesis that the Arab world is headed the wrong way economically.  I tend to agree with that.  After all, except for sales of natural resources, the Arab world is not particularly competitive.  That's not a good sign.  And while some people disliked Glain's anecdotal treatment of the region, I think it actually worked fairly well to highlight some of the problems.  

Glain implies that a major Arab economic collapse wouldn't be good for anyone, and I certainly agree with that.  Glain paints a pessimistic picture, and I basically agree with that as well.

Okay, why didn't I give it five stars?  I seem to agree with its facts, its presentation, its conclusions, and, surely, with its politics.  

But the truth is that I find fault with all of the above.

Had I been writing such a book and come to the section on Israel, I know what I would have said.  I would have explained that Israel is a prime example of Arab failures to deal with truth and reality.  And that it is also a prime example of present Arab opposition to justice and human rights.  I would have connected all this to Arab economic and societal problems.  

I would have talked about Camp David, and I would have shown how greedy and unjust Arafat's demands were (while admitting that neither side actually was offered anything of genuine value to it: Arafat was not offered Israel's head on a platter, and the Israelis were not offered peace).  I would have made the point that Glain made, namely that Robert Malley and his boss, Dennis Ross came up with quite different views about the facts of what happened at Camp David.  But I would have drawn the obvious conclusion from that!  Namely, if you drag folks into negotiations with thugs, only to offer them nothing and then tell all sorts of lies about them, eventually people will refuse to negotiate with thugs no matter how much you want them to.

Instead, Glain seemed to imply that in a just world, Israel can't really maintain a huge 8000 to 10,000 square mile Empire.  And that is pure nonsense.  Worse, acceptance of such obvious absurdities is at the core of the failure of the Arab world to value truth, justice, human rights, and prosperity. 
