If you've read Nicci French, you will recognize the opening hook of this book, only Nicci French did it much better (and with a watermelon!).  Almost everything after that hook (young woman performs heroic deed, is captured in paper, attracts attention of at least one potentially dangerous man) is pretty predictable and disappointing.

I'm not really a thriller snob.  I don't mind a little romance thrown in with my suspense (there's a reason I mentioned Nicci French - I like her!) and I don't need a thriller writer to be Hemingway.  But "Beautiful Lies" just really doesn't work even as an escapist book.  The other reviewer is absolutely right that this book reads sometimes like a Harlequin romance novel. (From about twenty years ago.) Other times, the tone makes attempts at doom and foreboding.  Everything is communicated by an overly familiar, "aren't I cool?" narrator who is not in fact too cool -- her commentary reads kind of like your aunt's idea of "what one of those Sex and the City girls might say."  At no point does she convince me that she actually IS cool.  In fact, despite the overfamiliarity, at no point in this book did I believe it was a real person narrating this story, even though that's obviously the tone the author was going for.  On top of that, the plotting was not surprising or new in any way, and every "twist" in this book was telegraphed from a mile away.  

I know I sound harsh, but I'm just disappointed, because I really wanted to like this book.  The writer obviously has talent, and this was a good idea that could have been better developed.  Plus, there are occasional glimpses of interesting, thoughtful writing.  But they're way too few and far between to make the other 90 percent of this book worth reading. 

I finished this book with the impression that Unger strayed from the book she wanted to write and ended up trying to write a Nicci French book instead.  I wish this author would write the book I saw occasional glimpses of here, when the narrator knocked off the cutesyness and the book got a little darker and more interesting.  I have a feeling that if she wrote that book, it would be good.  Till then, though, I have to give this book a very disappointed two stars (with an extra star for potential).
