There are plenty of good books on public speaking - and this is NOT one of them.  For several reasons.

First and definitely most importantly - it regularly contradicts itself.  For example, on the subject of humor and the person who is to introduce you:

"...If it looks like they are going to read some big long thing, give them some quick funny story to say instead."  Dr. Ken Blanchard

"Never give and introducer 'risky' material that requires comic timing."  Tom Ogden

So, assuming that Mr Ogden meant "material which requires comic timing is 'risky'," we have two "experts telling us, one straight after the other, to (1) get the introducer to tell a funny story, and (2) avoid asking the introducer to tell a funny story!

This confusion is mainly down to the author's choice to use a vast collection of quotes from people she presumably regards as "expert speakers," interspersed, from time to time, by her own thoughts and observations.  Unfortunately, despite her wealth of experience as a head of a "professional lecture agency," or maybe because of it, Ms. Walters has produced a book that is about as superficial as most of the "key note" and "after dinner" speeches I've ever had to witness.

There's a mountain of material here, and SOME of it is genuinely useful, but it's all so mixed up with the dross that you'd have to be something of an expert already in order to know which bits are worth taking notice of, and which are likely to make things worse rather than better.  In which case you wouldn't need this book in the first place.

The second important flaw in the book is that it assumes that the "experts" actually know what makes them successful.  Which is also unfortunate, since it is widely recognised that "experts" usually have little or no idea as to what their success is really based on.  The best they can do is tell you what THEY think they do - hence the conflicting instructions and the highly variable usefulness of the book as a whole.

Thirdly, there is the author's own rather questionable knowledge.  In Chapter 5, for instance, there is a section on mind maps, which shows little or no understanding of the subject.  To be sure, the author does say, at one point:

"True mind map experts, which I am not, will tell you to use only one word per line along with the pictures."

No they won't.  They'll tell you never to use a complete sentence, because if you do you will seriously undermine the main reason for using a mind map.  And that's just after they'd tell you that you do NOT have to use pictures all over a mind map, as this author asserts.

The obvious question is "Why describe a technique if you know that you don't really know what you're talking about?"  It may fill up some space, but it certainly doesn't do the reader any favours.

If you're the sort of person who gains confidence from getting "Reader's Digest"-sized quotes from a host of big name speakers then you may well enjoy this book.  If you want something with a modicum of genuine authority, from someone who writes from an in depth knowledge AND UNDERSTANDING of their subject then you'll need to look elsewhere. 
