"The Case for Israel" is written by the Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz. Politically, he could be described as a Cold War liberal. He supports gay rights, affirmative action and OJ Simpson, while opposing Cuba and Communism. And he supports Israel. Ironically, his support for Israel is as uncritical as the attitude of the CPUSA towards the Soviet Union. Dershowitz even defends house demolitions, and have proposed that entire Palestinian villages be destroyed in retaliation for suicide bombings. Despite protestations to the contrary, he also supports torture. Yet, Dershowitz is a member of Amnesty International! 

"The Case for Israel" is a piece of badly edited and completely fanaticized pro-Israeli propaganda. It was obviously written in great haste, since it contains a number of factual errors and misspellings. For instance, the author seems to think that the Philippines are a Muslim nation, and calls the notorious Spartacist League "Spartacus League". In an earlier edition, he even claimed that the phrase "Turnspeak" comes from George Orwell. (Its Newspeak, of course.) While sloppy editing like this is amusing, the main theses of the book certainly are not. Here, I will concentrate on just two of them. 

First, the question of collective punishment. Dershowitz argues that all, or most, Palestinians are guilty, since they sympathize with terrorist groups or actions. Thus, even punishment of civilians is justified. There is a "continuum of civilianity", says the author, since its not always easy to distinguish civilians from combatants among the Palestinians. They are all in on it, after all. 

Of course, this bizzare line of argument works both ways. Most American Jews aid and abet Israel. Would that justify a bomb in a Brooklyn shopping mold? Most Israelis support the on-going attack on Lebanon. Does that justify bombing Haifa? And what about kibbutzniks at the Syrian border or settlers at the West Bank? They are heavily armed, and some of them are illegal, making the distinction between civilians and combatants on the Jewish side hard to draw. Indeed, Osama bin-Laden justified 9/11 in exactly the same way. The American people elected the politicians responsible for attacking Iraq and supporting Israel. Therefore, they must take collective responsibility for the death of Arab civilians. (See "Messages to the World" by Osama bin-Laden, available here at Amazon.com.) 

Alan Dershowitz attempts to circumvent this by claiming that the Jews who are killed by Palestinian suicide bombings are "perfectly innocent" and are killed "regardless of their political views". But most Israelis dont vote for parties demanding immidiate withdrawal from the Occupied Territories, and today most support the attack on Lebanon. By Dershowitzian logic, they are therefore not "perfectly innocent". But the opposite is true as well: Dershowitz demagogically points out that some Israelis killed by suicide bombers were teenagers. Yet, he supports the massive ethnic cleansing of Germans by the Soviet Army during the last phase of World War Two, seeing this as suitable collective punishment. Of course, these actions affected teenagers as well, including teenage girls gang raped by Soviet soldiers... By implication, Dershowitz even seems to support the nuking of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, where many teenagers and kids died as well! (For the record: I support the Allies and my grandfather was a Communist partisan during the war. But that doesnt mean I have to accept Allied atrocities.) 

The author of "The Case for Israel" also claims that there is a difference between intentionally killing civilians (like Hamas) and unintentionally killing them while bombing military targets (like the IDF). He also points out that Israel gives advance warning before it bombs civilian areas. Are there no bounds to the cynicism of this man? Perhaps Israel doesnt "want" to kill civilians (its bad PR, after all) but their two invasions of Lebanon clearly prove that they couldnt care less if civilians do get killed. They are, after all, all guilty, right? As for giving advance warning, the IRA gave advance warning before its attacks against civilian targets in Britain. Logically, Dershowitz should claim that the IRA and the British were morally equivalent, but of course he doesnt. Besides, there may be many reasons why civilians cant leave a targeted area even if given advance warning. Witness the hurricane Katrina in the US. Besides, why SHOULD they leave? Would American Jews "just leave" New York if given advance warning about another al-Qaeda attack? I guess so, but they would surely demand swift counter-action by Ms. Rice. And Im not talking UN resolutions. 

So why do Alan Dershowitz have one standard for the Jews and a quite different one for the Arabs? This bring me to my second point. The reason, of course, is that he believes Palestine to be rightfully Jewish. And not just Palestine, but apparently Transjordan as well! 

On what grounds? That Jews have an automatic right to Palestine, no matter what, is an idea that can only be "justified" religiously. But the author is a secularist. With the risk of drawing some fire, I dont belive there are any secular grounds for automatically granting the Jews Palestine, save one: the "right" or might of conquest. Before the Zionist colonization, Palestine was predominantly Arab, and had been Arab for around 1200 years. No amount of sophistry can change this fact, and Dershowitz tries some! That Jews had an independent kingdom in Palestine over 2000 years ago is irrelevant. By that logic, New York City should be given over to the Manahata Indians. Ironically, that would force its Jewish community to re-settle in Israel, something they havent been very keen on doing for the past 60 years. Presumably, Egypt should be given over to some descendant of Cleopatra, provided such could be found. 

The case for Transjordan being Jewish is non-existent on secular grounds, pace Dershowitz, and flimsy even on religious grounds. Some Biblical passages suggest that everything from the Stream of Egypt to the Euphrates is rightfully Jewish. That would include both Transjordan and half of Iraq! Other Biblical passages suggest that "only" the northwestern part of Transjordan should be Jewish. But most limit the Promised Land to Palestine proper, leaving out the areas east of Jordan. The rabbinical commentary "Tevuos Haaretz" exclude both the Negev and Transjordan from Eretz Israel, but include Lebanon. "Kaftor VaFerach" also include the coast of Syria, but again, no Transjordan. The relevant maps can be found in the Stone edition of the Jewish Bible, available from this site. 

So what is the real case for Israel? Frankly, the only case that could be made for it, is that Israel exists, have a powerful army, and simply wont go away. In a perfect world, Palestine would either be Arab, with the Jews forming their own state some place else, or Jews and Arabs would love each other, and hence create a bi-national state. But the Jews created their own state in Palestine, and they dont like Arabs. Welcome to the dog-eat-dog imperfect world. For pragmatic reasons of Realpolitik, compromises are called for. What the compromise must be is obvious: a two-state solution, with Israel withdrawing from the West Bank and Gaza strip, where a Palestinian state should be set up. The Palestinian refugees, unfortunately, cannot return, except perhaps to the Palestinian state. I agree with Prof. Alan Dershowitz on one point only: It was indeed a mistake for Arafat not to continue the negotiations at Camp David in 2000. However, I suspect that the road to Palestinian statehood would have been a rocky one even had he done so, since Israel would surely have demanded all kinds of "security guarantees" from such a state. Arafat isnt the only culprit here... 

When I was more pro-Israeli, I wrote a more even-handed review of this book. Since then, I changed my mind. Mr. Dershowitz, I have read your book VERY CAREFULLY and only give it one star out of five! 
