If you're looking for a book to convince you or remind you that the left is evil/pathetic/wrong/or whatever look elsewhere.  Flynn does a poor job of fact finding or arguing his point.  He relies on, for example, what are apparently random people he interviewed at protests to create a blanket view of liberal beliefs.  Look at the footnotes in Chapter 4.  I'm sorry but this is like looking for a Leno's Jaywalking segment to find spokespeople for a movement.

Also in Chapter 4, Flynn lays out the 5 myths of the left.  Does the left actually believe them?  As a bleeding heart liberal who knows mostly other bleeding heart liberals I'll give my response:

1)	American Women Live Under a Patriarchy - his point is that women in America are better off than just about anywhere else.  True, but that doesn't mean they don't live under a patriarchy.
2)	America is the World's Leading Threat to the Environment - his point is that places like Russia and China are far worse.  No one I know disagrees with his point. 
3)	America is a Racist Nation - His point is that we are not.  I don't know any liberals who think America is a Racist nation
4)	The United States is an Imperial Power - as this was published in 2002 I'll abstain from commenting other than to say that he says the left believes that the international growth of Starbucks, McDonalds and such is cultural imperialism.  I think many liberals would agree with that.  He says most of the countries embrace these companies opening stores in them.  I say that doesn't mean its not cultural imperialism.
5)	The Rich Get Richer, the Poor Get Poorer.  His argument is apparently that individuals who were in the lowest 20% of the income bracket in 1979 were mostly not in 1988.  He cites and article in the National Review where these numbers came from.  That article sites a Treasury Department survey.  So he's relying on secondary sources for his information?  Looks like shoddy research to me.  

The book is riddled with problems.  For example, On pg. 31 he quotes Robert Altman as saying that we were in a way for Afghani oil interests.  Flynn then says that its not clear who Altman was referring to or why he would say that about a country without major oil reserves.  Here Flynn misses a perfect opportunity to attack a widely held liberal belief that Bush attacked Afghanistan for a potential pipeline that could be used to get oil out of Central Asian countries.  He doesn't though.  He lets it lie.  This is the nature of my problem with him.  Again and again his attacks are inept or simply untrue.  

Reading his summary of why the Left hates America is just tripe.  No one I know thinks like this.  He says we believe capitalism is a failed economic system.  I don't know anyone who believes this.  Personally, I believe in universal healthcare but that's primarily because I've dealt with HMO's before.  He also says the Left condemn Christianity as intolerant.  Once again, no one I know believes this.  This book is full on nonsense.  
