In general, I would credit the authors with doing a remarkable job of describing the need for committed relationships within the church for it to function as Christ intended.  And the greatest strength of the book is the stories that they tell to share with us the successes and struggles that various house churches have experienced over many years.  Those stories are very real and express the significant growth and value of house churches.

My problem with this book is the notion that house churches are the only place for real relationships to develop.  The caricature that they portray of small groups in more traditional churches is full of generalizations and simplifications.  They have chosen the worst of small groups and shown them to be the norm.  If I were to choose between the small groups described in this book and a house church, I would also think that house churches are the only way to go.

However, small groups have the potential, when done well, to offer significant vitality in the life of a traditional church.  Quality small groups, led by capable leaders, can retain many of the wonderful attributes that the authors describe from house churches.  And there are many wonderful benefits from a traditional church that are totally lost within the framework of house churches.  These attributes of contemporary church life are totally and inappropriately discarded as useless.  

Ultimately, I think that the authors fall short by assuming the primacy of their approach.  Though I am pleased to learn how God is working through house churches to minister to so many people, I do not appreciate (or agree with) the suggestion that this model needs to ultimately replace traditional church life.  

I intend to utilize some key insights that I garnered from this book to implement them within the context of our small groups.  And I will continue to thank the Lord for blessing me with an awesome church family, which allows me opportunities to connect and serve with people at our house within our small group but in so many other life-giving and transformational ways!
