There are SOOOO many GREAT books about wicca and witchcraft out there I certainly wouldn't waste my money again on another ravenwolf book, and I suggest others don't either. I am a solitary practioner for 8 years and have been studying wicca for 10 and when I picked up this book I thought it was very cheesy. There are many many books that focus on different spells to try, with lots of background information on how to do them corectly, this book isn't one of them. It is a lot of pop propaganda made to make wicca and witchcraft look like something out of the movies. 
It is however full of false information made just to look cute so it will sell, sell, sell. This book is not for anyone who is seriously interested in learning Wicca and spells 
This supposedly "advanced" book doesnt go into details on how to focus or make your spells stronger, it doesn't go into the operations and importance to keep your spells safe so they work corecctly, and it doesn't go into making your own spells (which tend to work BETTER). It DOES however make the reader feel like they can just read a spell out loud from the book and it will all work in a puff of blue smoke...which is far from reality.
 Instead of just reading spells from a book a reader should look into expanding their knowledge of witchcraft and of wicca so that they will have a solid understanding of how and why spells do what they do so that they can feel confident in creating meaningful, sucessful spells of their own.

Unfortunatly this book may seem fun but it it is far from what most consider resonable information. Her different of opinions and different practices one can handle as a form of paganism but she portrays a real, religion as a fun and games, do whatever you want choice. I am not in a coven and I am very happy being a solitary practioner but I understand wicca is a religious choice and like any religion there are beliefs and redes which are followed. It is not 'do whatever you want to do and call yourself wiccan'. Yes some things in religion are personal choices but the building blocks of the religion are totally lost on her. Freedom of choice in religion is wonderful and its everyones right but if your choice is to make up your own religion you should not go around saying your wiccan when you do not follow the wiccan ways, Unfortunatly that is EXACTLY what ravenwolf does. 
This book seems a nice commercial, and cutesy to make everything pretty and oh so shiney. If you truely want to learn about wicca and learn how to cast better spells then you need not do the spells in this book but look deeper into magic and learn what makes a spell work and how to improve your spells. Then you won't need a book like this to read aloud from every time you feel you need a change
