When I read an autobiography, I like to feel I have come to know and to have enjoyed meeting the author.  What did I learn from "Include Me Out?  Nothing very much other than (1) apparently Mr. Granger has not had a meal that he has forgotten!  You have to search far and wide to find a page on which food and/or drink are not mentioned. (2) He must have a problem with short-term memory, since he keeps repeating himself in this slender volume.  For example, he tells a story about Richard Rogers and a deleted song from "Babes In Arms" on page 99 and then repeates the same story on page 205; ditto with a story of Peggy Guggenheim's bequest stipulation that her art collection remain in the city of Venice which first appears on page 148 and then again on page 170. (3) His relationships seem superficial: Although he states "I fell in love with Janice [Rule]...and before long we were making wedding plans."  Only four  lines later "it was time to move on with our lives and careers, not with married life."  Most of his affairs with women seem to be "one night stands" and although an article in the 3/27/07 issue of THE ADVOCATE states that "he has been happily partnered with TV producer Robert Calhoun...for the past 45 years", Farley Granger never identifies himself as gay or describes his relationship to Robert Calhoun [co-author of INCLUDE ME OUT] with any passion.  In fact, he leaves the reader with the impression that they are neighbors rather than lovers.  Nowhere in the book does he talk about pursuing anyone sexually.  Passively, life happens to him, instead. (4) Some of the things he writes about just don't make sense.  For example, he describes a restaurant (food again!)  in Venice where the gondoliers hung out: "It was for men only...At some point in the evening, different men or groups of men would spontaneously sing opera." (p. 158)..."The singing went on for at least ninety blissful minutes, with duests, solos, quartets, and sextests from Italian operas being sung..."(p.159)  Now I ask: What Italian operas have quartets and sextets sung only by men?  Mr. Granger lucked-out in being cast in a few--very few--excellent films, but he did not impress me as having any real depth as an actor, and, on the basis of this autobiography, even less so as an author. It is superficaial, banal, boring, and at times even annoying.  Save your money.  If you're curious to see if it is as bad as I think it is, borrow it from your library.
