Calling Cards... Long gloves vs Afternoon Tea gloves... How to prepare a proper wives luncheon complete with quiche???? WHO DOES THIS!!! As an Enlisted wife (And I find that most of the wives looking for help ARE Enlisted) you are going to wind up chucking this book right into the trash. The place on base that people keep mentioning as being useful is the Family Support Center. They have FREE reading material that is 400 times more useful than knowing what kind of gloves to wear to lunch. WHO WEARS GLOVES TO LUNCH?!! Half of the wives I know who "do lunch" end up showing up in jeans so where do the gloves come in??? I gave this to my best friend who is an Officers Wife, thinking that the Upper Crust might do these 50's style luncheons more than us enlisted people... as it turns out, they don't "do lunch" with gloves either. 

Seriously, if you're COMPLETELY new to the military, this might help you learn some of the traditions. But it gives you the WRONG idea about what the military is like and, in all honesty, I've been married for several years now, was a brat before that, and the only pair of gloves I own are for winter weather. And the only reason I even HAVE calling cards is because, as a Jew, I'm forbidden to write on the Sabbath and sometimes I want to give my number to a new friend. I have never once needed more than the back of a reciept and a pen to give my number to other military wives, I have never served quiche at a get together and don't know anybody who actually EATS the stuff outside of their parent's house, And 

If it's history and tradition you are looking for.. there are WAY more books out there to give you an insightful look at the military. If you're in your 50's, married to an officer, and you're the type to "do lunch" in a formal setting, you will get off on this book. But if you're anything like me (an Enlisted wife under 30) you're better off just going to the FSC, a library, or a Spouses Club meeting for all of the information that's in this book. Also, it helps to MEET the wives because then you will see that they are not a group of hat wearing, quiche eating old biddies who do tea.
