		Although the premise of this book is brilliant, perceptive and absolutely vital to the next few years;  Reich sadly presents an incisive example of the economic thinking and progress that made Democrats relevant in the 1930s.

	It's years ahead of the Bush ideologues, who act and think as if the 20th Century never happened.  Reich is progressive enough to adopt the policies of the 1930s, and he does exceptionally well.  He knows how to blow an eloquent "toot" on the whistle of a charming old steam locomotive;  like many other politicians of nostalgia, he thinks it gives him the right to fly the Space Shuttle.

	The world is changing.  As an example, Wal-Mart can forecast with 5 percent accuracy how many copies of a new video disc it will sell, and it has that figure within four hours of the disc going on sale.  That's where the brains of Wal-Mart is located, and it's why the company needs only $10-an-hour clerks for the check-out counter and to stuff the shelves.

	When check-out counters were complicated, it made sense to hire $20-an-hour clerks.  Now the job involves holding a bar code in front of a laser scanner, it has become another job where many companies could use "los barratos illegales".

	No one has a "right" to a specific job;  work must be earned by those who acquire the necessary skills.  Fifty years ago, it made sense that American auto workers were the best paid in the world, their assembly work required skill.  Today, truly skilled jobs are done by robots;  assembly workers do low skill work that is too menial to be automated.

	Success today depends on the desire to learn technical and personal skills needed for a specific job. Sadly, too many people have VW "Bug" skills and Escalade attitudes.  Sorry, life isn't like that any more.

	Let's do some numbers:  there are about 190 million Americans in the labour force, plus 10 million unemployed;  at least 10 million illegal aliens have jobs here.  If Reich is right, then how can millions of illegal migrants with about a Grade 3 formal education get jobs that Americans with high school diplomas can't hold?  Instead, every illegal migrant with a job is another proof that Reich is outdated.

	Reich completely ignores this issue;  instead, he offers Depression-era solutions for the future knowledge economy.  There's a good business reason why there are millions of illegal migrants in America, and why no administration will take action against them.  Reich, as a former Secretary of Labour, should address that issue.

	The future is ahead.  Americans deserve a better than going back to the 1930s with Reich's liberal allies,  or back to the 1890s with Bush's conservatives of greed, cronyism, graft and war.  This book shows Reich would have been a great Labour secretary for Franklin Roosevelt, but he was merely a seat warmer in the 1990s.

	Please, we're all going to live in the future.  So, let's think about the future, instead of resurrecting colorful but antiquated policies of the past.  Reich should do much better, or else we'll all be Bushwhacked by the sultans of greedy-nomics.

