Woodrow is a historicists he believed at the time of writing this book that all the prophecies in the Bible both Old and New testament have been fulfilled except the second coming of Christ. I don't buy the Historicists position at all. They do not take the prophecies literally, they have to bend and twist the scriptures to fit there beliefs and they state categorically that the anti Christ is the office of the papacy. Something He refutes in a later work of his. I don't buy the anti Christ as being an office of anything, but an actual individual who will be tossed into Hell before the Millennium starts. You cannot toss an office into hell its a person. Also He did not take into account the false prophet of Israel (a reconstituted Israel) and blends him with Anti Christ. No historicists take the prophecy's of a reconstituted Israel literally, but try to say the Church is Physical Israel (we were graphed in as spiritual Israel but we are not Physical Israel) and Yet hear Israel is, reformed in 1948, Jerusalem reestablished under Jewish control in 1967. We see The EU Lining up to be the last reformed Roman empire based on democracy as the scriptures predicted. We see the Russia bear with all her arms arming all the Muslim nations as the scriptures predicted. We see China with a HUGE military as the Scriptures predicted and we see Israel surrounded by her enemies and being a stumbling stone to the whole world as the scriptures predicted. To ignore the prophecy's of a reconstituted Israel is to ignore Moses' Prophesy, Ezekiel's and Daniel's as well as all the major and minor prophets of the Old testament and of the Lord Jesus Himself. There were 300 prophecies of the Christ first coming and 500 of the second, there is just to much to ignore and we must take them literally. If this does not convince you read Matthew 24 and hear Christ's words. Also read all the prophecy's in the Old testament with the DAY OF The LORD mentioned and tell me when a war like that ever happened. Read the Book of revelation in the new testament and you will see that the Historicists position does not hold up. One thing historicists never seem to understand is that there are multiple fulfillment's of prophecy's and also partial fulfillment's. Jesus said this himself about John being a type of Elijah, he said Elijah was still to come (after John) but to those that can accept it John was an Elijah (so a multiple fufillment). If we take the scripture literally on salvation through grace by faith, then we must take the prophecy's of the second coming just as literally
