There are good reasons aplenty to react with skepticism, if not outright indignation, to the claims of Eric Jensen and the legion of smarmy educrats who are pressuring teachers to abandon "traditional teaching styles" (and traditional standards) and become a cuddly hybrid of pop psychologists, emotional counselors, learning "facilitators" and now, if Jensen et al get their way, neurophysiologists practicing without a license.

But the first reason to object is itself a no-brainer: the author has no medical pedigree, no MD, Ph.D., or even DDS after his name, which would confer on him at least a modicum of authority from which to lecture the rest of us about brain functions. The snippet about his career on the back of the book is hardly reassuring in this regard: the author "speaks at conferences and offers trainings internationally" (at a hefty price, no doubt), has "taught at all levels" (Does that mean he ever held the same position for more than a few months?), and, naturally, has a cluster of best-selling books and a web site. One is reminded of the résumé of Stuart Smalley, the Saturday Night Live character played by Al Franken: "Stuart Smalley is a caring nurturer, a member of several twelve-step programs, but is not a licensed therapist."

The fact is that among the "brain-based learning" gang there are very few prominent scientists or physicians (Can you name any of them?), and the hasty use of their hair-brained (pun intended) ideas has already sparked lawsuits against school districts in California and Utah (Christian Science Monitor, August 25, 1998). You would think that Jensen or his publishers could have found at least one scientific authority to write a forward or a dust-jacket blurb to give the book a stamp of prestige; yet no such endorsement is in evidence. Perhaps Jensen knows that by ingratiating himself with the education community he will benefit from a captive and undiscriminating audience--school principals itching to appear "progressive" will bully their faculties into reading his books, and the besieged teachers themselves will not have the time to explore the author's credentials or scrutinize his logic. However, if we are going to rightly call ourselves educators, then I believe it is incumbent on all of us to employ--to borrow another popular educrat term--some "higher-order thinking skills" in examining Jensen and his reckless claims.

What follows, then, is not a summary but a critique. If you prefer to have your opinions spoon-fed to you, or want to be emotionally manipulated (a practice the brain-based bunch recommends), go no further. If you are capable of reasoned, analytical thought and have any respect for empirical truth, then sally forth.

ABANDON ALL WOOLY THINKING YE WHO ENTER HERE

Chapter 6: "How Threats and Stress Affect Learning"

We begin by citing the Hippocratic Oath, "Do no harm"--a peculiar ploy for an author who has no medical background. The ostensible purpose of this chapter on threats is to browbeat teachers for creating threatening and stressful environments in their classrooms: "Excess stress and threat in the school environment may be the single greatest contributor to impaired academic learning" (page 52). Fair enough. The trouble starts when the author gets specific, in the next section, as to the kinds of "threats" he has in mind: not violence or peer pressure, but the customary and altogether sensible--in my brain, anyway--promise of detention that many teachers make known from the first day of school to students who are apt to misbehave. From this moment on, Jensen effectively discredits himself as a purveyor of pedagogical wisdom: he knows perfectly well that teachers already have a limited range of consequences available to them in dealing with problem students (yes, problem students do exist, and we have every right to label them as such), yet he rushes to close one of the last remaining avenues of leverage left to us, probably out of regret that he could not be the first to indict corporal punishment in schools. As is so often the case in educrat texts like Teaching with the Brain in Mind, we are told from the beginning what we should not do when managing our students' behavior as opposed to what we should do, precisely the pattern of hypocrisy we've already been urged to avoid by other pedagogical "experts."

We are then subjected to a scattering of brain-facts and a matronly lecture on what a frightful thing stress is. Jensen needlessly repeats the word "chronic" or "chronically" on page 53 and elsewhere with obvious intent, which is to use pretentious clinical language to elevate the common human experience of stress to hyperbolic disease-like proportions, and to let us know that we teachers are all conspirators, however unwitting, in the medieval horror that he seems to believe today's youngsters experience in school. What ensues is a pattern that Jensen repeats throughout the whole book: six-plus pages devoted to spelling out all the insidious things teachers have done to their students in the past, and what this, in turn, has done to the students' poor precious brains, almost equating the way that American classrooms have been run for the last two hundred years with emotional abuse...followed by a scant page and a half of patronizing suggestions as to how we can reduce the threats and stress (What does "Role model appropriate emotional intelligence" mean? Does the author really believe that questions like "`How many of you think the one week due date is realistic?'" will elicit anything but the most predictable responses? Is there no circumstance in which the imaginary "Kenny" on page 60 might earn himself a harsh rebuke from the author?). The flow-charts and diagrams are ubiquitous, but the practicality is sparse. It is not necessary to describe the impact of social stress on the neurons in order to make us understand that stress has negative physiological consequences, when all of us know from common personal experience that this is so. For a book called Teaching with the Brain in Mind, we are given far more information about the brain than we are about teaching--and pointless information at that.

Non sequiturs and irrelevancies abound. For example, in the section on "Stress and Learning," the author digresses on the effects of lighting on the "soft eyeballs" of adolescents for three paragraphs, but nothing is said about how to deal with it. What can concerned teachers possibly do about the fluorescent lights in their classrooms, or the flicker of computer screens? The amygdala is mentioned on page 55 and then immediately dropped. The author is really talking about gland secretions in response to various external stimuli, but his ad hoc approach often obscures the information he's trying to convey, and creates the lurking impression that he "creatively" inserts such factual tidbits now and then in order to seem authoritative...and, of course, to ensure that his facts line up with the opinions he wants to advance, which in this case are rather obvious: stress is bad, it makes us feel bad, and it gets in the way of learning and other productive endeavors. This does not strike me as a "cutting-edge" discovery--perhaps my amygdala is under-reacting.

Why does Jensen assume that classrooms are hostile places? Probably because he and other educrats around the country were once subjected to stressful school situations in their own childhoods, and are now determined to correct the past at the expense of the present. Yet most of the factors Jensen cites as contributing to student stress levels are beyond the control of teachers: whose fault is it that schools are overcrowded, that conditions aren't ideal and that some students come from violent or unhappy homes? Moreover, why does the author mention, but so obviously fail to deal with, the fact that public school is mandated by law, and thus will always feel like a forced situation for many kids? School causes stress because school is stressful, period. Good teachers can mitigate that truth if they wish, but they cannot eradicate it.

There are also blatant instances of intellectual dishonesty. For example, Jensen employs the term "Learned Helplessness" to describe students who've given up on themselves (Note for aspiring pontificators: When writing a book, be sure to invent your own vapid and clinical-sounding language; not only will it make you look like an expert, but every time someone else wants to use your words they'll have to cite you by name forever, leading to more book sales, more speaking engagements, and maybe a guest shot on Good Morning America). Jensen acknowledges that learned helplessness is "fairly rare in most classrooms" (Which raises the obvious question: Then why spend half a chapter dwelling on it? Because its effects are "discouraging," says our author momentously.) and occurs as the result of trauma; the trauma is characterized by a person's lack of control over the traumatic event and subsequent decision to explain the event to him/herself, often by assuming guilt for it. 

The concept of trauma is a legitimate one in clinical psychology, but the author misrepresents its effects on children by equating a school shooting with verbal broadsides by an "insensitive teacher" (page 57). When children and adults are traumatized by an event, and exhibit subsequent disabling behavior such as perpetual silence, nightmares and lack of concentration, they are suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and require help from a trained psychologist or counselor, not from a teacher. Furthermore, Jensen leaves readers with the impression that all traumatic events are scarring when they are not--factors such as age, temperament, and source and duration of the trauma all play a part, and some children are able to bounce back and recover from traumatic events ("Coping With Trauma," Child Magazine, November 1999). The author would clearly have us believe that any stern display of authority by a teacher is potentially scarring and to be avoided at all costs...such is the distorted thinking commonly engaged in by today's education reformers. Pity the trampled young soul subjected to so much as a reprimand or a scolding, no matter how much he/she/it might need it, and off with the heads of any beastly teachers with the impertinence to correct their own students.

This is not only disingenuous and unscientific; it's just plain brainless.

Chapter 7: "Motivation and Rewards"

In this chapter we uncover the pièce de résistance in the propaganda of the brain-based learning movement; the jewel in their crown of nonsense. The key to learning is "intrinsic motivation," say these latter-day sophists, and the only way to get intrinsic motivation is to make the curriculum "relevant" and "student-centered." Students should be taught how to think through "hands-on activities" that engage "critical thinking skills," are "outcome-based" and "developmentally appropriate," and are not graded objectively but evaluated through "authentic assessment." Teachers themselves are steeped in "best practices" that are "researched-based" [i.e. of uncertain value and prone to gimmickry]. Therefore all traditional forms of teaching are suspect and should be thrown out the window--no more book-learning, no more merciless "drill and kill," no more stressful tests, and above all, no more reliance on knowledge, because knowledge is "constructed" by the learners themselves and objective knowledge doesn't exist anyway. What hooey.

The fallacy of intrinsic motivation has become so rampant in educrat circles that it is nothing short of stupefying--how can so many people who have allegedly devoted their lives to the pursuit and transmission of knowledge subscribe to ideas that are so patently illogical and contradictory? Webster's Collegiate Dictionary defines the word intrinsic in the following terms: "belonging to the real nature of a thing; not dependent on external circumstances; essential; inherent." Compare this to the following absurd statement by our author on page 67: "Most students are already intrinsically motivated; it's just that the motivation is very context-dependent." Jensen is willing to pore over hundreds of psychiatric and medical texts to justify his views, but it seems he has never bothered to pick up a dictionary.

Not that "intrinsic motivation" is the only offensive malapropism on display; here's another one, introduced on page 63 (drum-roll, please): "temporary demotivation." When students are not in the throes of chronic "learned helplessness," they are languishing in an emotional purgatory during which time they are merely "temporarily unmotivated." Note that the blame for both conditions is again laid squarely at the feet of insensitive teachers:

"A teacher's voice, tone, or gestures may remind a student of a previous, disliked teacher. Past failures may trigger such feelings, as can memories of consistently failing a subject or having an embarrassing or 'catastrophic' downfall in a class. An original significant threat can be re-triggered by a much smaller incident." (Page 64)

Oh, the humanity!

In his 1946 essay, "Politics and the English Language," George Orwell specifically names pretentious diction and meaningless words as the fingerprints of modern political hacks. Orwell knew manipulative lingo when he saw it, and he made effective satire of its techniques in the "Newspeak" he invented for his futuristic novel, 1984. He says that "Bad writers, and especially scientific, political, and sociological writers, are nearly always haunted by the notion that Latin or Greek words are grander than Saxon ones...the normal way of coining a new word is to use a Latin or Greek root with the appropriate affix...The result, in general, is an increase in slovenliness and vagueness."

Does this describe the jargon employed by the brain-based bunch? Let's see: take the Latin root movere, meaning "to move;" add the prefix de-, meaning to reverse, to remove or to reduce; finesse our new word with an -ion suffix, meaning "result of an action or process" or "state or condition." Presto! Instant verbiage: demotivation. One might expect our author to use a word like "unmotivation" because of the existing adjective "unmotivated," but that is clearly not surreptitious enough for our purposes--the prefix un-, when used with a noun, simply means "not," but we want to include the message that something has been done to our poor "demotivated" student to cause his condition, something that occurred to him and was not in any way associated with his own prior behavior, and so the prefix de- is added instead. A little euphemistic brainwashing before dinner, anyone?

In the same essay Orwell urges writers to follow a few rules to avoid appearing unscrupulous; one of them is, "Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent." On this count Jensen is guilty in spades. Here's an everyday English word: lazy. Could we not substitute the phrase "temporary laziness" for "temporary demotivation" without any loss of meaning? Isn't a lack of motivation the very essence of laziness? Of course it is, but don't leave it to our astute author to point that out. He is going to elaborate lengths in choosing his words purely to bully us into accepting his philosophy about education.

Is it fair to call this book political? Absolutely. We've already seen that the author is willing to bend science to his own aims, to speak without authority and to reinvent the English lexicon in the process. But there are two more complaints to be lodged: omission of facts and conflict of interest. The "facts" that Jensen presents regarding stress and threats in school would appear to spell out utter doom for most if not all students, yet vast numbers of students succeed in school every day, year after year--some of them even manage to graduate high school despite the best efforts of their insensitive teachers. At least two generations of Americans, the Great Depression/World War II generation and the subsequent Baby Boom generation, were educated without the benefits of brain-compatible learning, and a great many of these people have not only survived but prospered. How does Jensen account for this? Why did the "chronic stress" brought on by subsequent wars, political assassinations, recessions, urban decay and random violence not make mental Jell-O out of America's children by the thousands? How can our universities, which still maintain "threatening" practices such as "unforgiving deadlines" and pop quizzes, turn out so many brilliant and capable professionals? 

Remarkably, there is at least one jargonistic term Jensen hasn't plundered from the world of pop psychology: selective perception. This refers to the natural (you might even call it "intrinsic," heh-heh) tendency of humans to remember and cling to only that information which helps them to rationalize their own behavior, especially when they are confronted with certain unpleasant and immovable truths. Even if we grant Jensen and his kind their wish to "do no harm," as per the Hippocratic Oath, and allow that he may not be lying or falsifying his facts outright, there is still the problem of his numerous and substantial omissions: the fact that a preponderance of students do, somehow, learn and succeed in school despite the admittedly bad conditions so many of them have to deal with, a reality which Jensen makes no effort to explain; the fact that most teachers do not make it a priority to make their students feel threatened; and most important, the fact that much of today's brain "research" is downright flaky, and hasn't provided any definitive answers about learning or about classroom practices (see quote by John Bruer below). To his credit, Jensen stops here and there to remind us that the jury is still out on a lot of this stuff...but one has to look hard for such acknowledgements. He urges teachers to use their classes as "guinea pigs" and to let their students in on what they are doing. Essentially, he invites us to behave like amateur scientists and to draw conclusions from what we observe, no matter how misinformed those conclusions might be. I believe this is the same as inviting us to commit a form of teacher malpractice. Where does the Hippocratic Oath fit into such logic?

Finally, as if we needed any more evidence that something is rotten in Denmark, the art of opportunism and the modern culture of self-promotion both rear their ugly heads in the middle of Chapter 7. Jensen pauses to insert an eight-paragraph infomercial promoting his own "SuperCamp," a "10-day academic immersion program" for at-risk students. Regardless of SuperCamp's achievements, which may be real and commendable, the author creates an ethical problem by citing as his only major example of the validity of his ideas a commercial entity in which he, as co-founder, has an obvious personal stake. (A quick check of SuperCamp's web site reveals that tuition for a single student costs upwards of $700; the web site boasts the usual "ecstatic satisfied customer" vignettes one would expect to see in an aggressive marketing campaign, and offers free brochures and a CD to entice visitors.) This is clearly inappropriate in a book that purports to represent objective science. One does not see Stephen Hawking pausing in the middle of A Brief History of Time to solicit people to register for his university courses, or Albert Einstein interrupting his famous paper on the theory of relativity to mention the great two-week seminars he gives on the subject. This is the hallmark of latter-day "self-help" gurus like Shirley MacLaine and Tony Robbins. If Jensen wants to be a shill, he should utilize late-night television and refrain from imposing himself on teachers via the pretext of "professional development."

Conclusion

The snake-oil and lightning-rod salesmen of old at least had the sense to get out of town before their faulty products backfired on their customers, and the truth behind their phony sales pitches was discovered. What makes today's fad-peddlers in education like Jensen and Howard Gardner (of "multiple intelligences" fame) so insidious is that their claims, by their very design, are not subject to immediate empirical scrutiny, and so they are allowed to go on perpetuating them without answering to anyone. Corner them with facts and criticism, and they equivocate with defensive reductio ad absurdum statements, like, "I do not suggest teachers throw caution to the wind and apply 50 things expecting miracles" (as Jensen said in an interview with a UCLA quarterly), or cite anecdotal and often biased evidence for their silly claims--e.g., Jensen's own "SuperCamp"--something we should all hope a neuroscientist would never do. 

Another reason is that, like religious fundamentalists who misuse the Bible, the brain-based bunch have gathered just enough persuasive scientific truth to induce us all into following them off the proverbial cliff--again, this is selective perception at work. Seeking to remake public education in their own image, to build their careers and establish the appearance of credibility, they are willing to inflate a few modestly insightful discoveries about the brain's physiology into the basis for reform, even while those doing the actual research are still scratching their heads, as illustrated in a quote from the Christian Science Monitor article mentioned earlier:


"The gap between the research community and the practitioner community is much wider than what you'd find between practicing engineers and physicists," says John Bruer, president of the St. Louis-based James S. McDonnell Foundation, which supports educational and biomedical research...."We just don't know enough about how the brain works to make claims about brain-based curricula."

To send the entire teaching profession bolting pell-mell into such dubious territory, with the intellectual future of the next generation at stake, is not the behavior of educated people--it is the behavior of swindlers and opportunists. To challenge their claims is not simply "reactionary" or "negative," it is responsible and wholly appropriate, particularly when they are attempting to alter the means of education itself, to inspire mindless "group-think" (i.e., professional peer-pressure) and to intimidate us with selective half-truths. 

Get on board the brain-train if you like, but my hippocampus is staying right here.


Further Reading:

Getting Brainy with Book Royalties in Mind

To Brain or Not to Brain

Your Brain and You: A Primer for Cretins

He Ain't Brainy, He's My Brother

This Is Your Brain on Four Hours of Sleep

The Case for Lobotomizing Educrats

I Don't Know What I'm Talking About, But It Has "Brain" in the Title

Sautéed Synapses: French Cooking with the Brain in Mind (forward by Dr. Hannibal Lecter)

"Learned Helplessness" and Over-Worked Teachers: A Puzzling Link

Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Brain

Don't Brain Us; We'll Brain Yo
