What this book demonstrates to its readers is that Pamela Winnick has several strawmen she has erected about science and evolution, and she enjoys beating them regularly. One wonders if she was not subject to abuse with a science textbook at some point in her life, so obvious is her vitriol toward anything scientific.

She has made no effort to check her sources or to even document them; I've Googled several of her unattributed quotes and have found no record of who might have said the things she quotes. For all I can figure out, Ms. Winnick might have made up those quotes herself to support her cause. The editing and proofreading of the book are atrocious enough that I've had to read several sentences more than once to try to ascertain her meaning. As another reader has noted, she never attempts to address to whom she might actually be speaking. Is she upset at science as a method, at scientists in general, or only at those she considers "leftist"? The reader is left to wonder for himself what her motive might be.

It's obvious that she understands very little about evolution, a subject about which she seems very upset. She refers to neo-Darwinism as "the only acceptable scientific explanation for the origin and evolution of life" and neglects to note that evolution says absolutely nothing about the origin of life. She implies that such ongoing social problems as racism are the fault of science. I wondered while I read this book if Ms. Winnick had ever cracked open a science book or if she was capable of using a non-pejorative word to describe a scientist. She makes rather unprofessional and silly remarks about people with whom she disagrees, commenting on their appearances and on their personal lives with the obvious glee of a Kitty Kelley tell-all.

if you'd enjoy reading a book that is an honest discussion of either politics or science, _A Jealous God_ is not for you. If, however, you enjoy being preached to in unprofessional and underhanded ways about the distaste all religious people should have for scientists, then by all means, pick up this book. If you enjoy poorly edited and non-annotated books written by laymen about the problems with science, then this book's for you. It's certainly not an honest portrayal of anything within the real world or outside of Ms. Winnick's worldview in which scientists are a terrible evil
