This book is about Dave's late high school years, while he was in the foster care system.  This book talks about some friends that have helped him through some tough times.

I thought this book would talk more about his experiences and feelings about the foster care system, which we were initially led to believe.  But the book turned out to be more of a "guy" book, talking about his adventures and mishaps with his friends.  This might be interesting to teenage boys, but for a broader audience, this book didn't seem as interesting.  The experiences in foster care didn't really seem to come through as much.

The book seemed to ramble on and on about certain points and seemed to go off in a tangent at times.  As a result, the book became a little boring.  I also didn't care for some of the foul language in the book, which to me, often detracts from the point that the book is trying to get across.

About the review from the lady from New Zealand...it was not necessary to single me out in your review.  The point of these reviews is to review the book, not the reviewers.  

Secondly, I did not like the book.  Plain and simple.  That is OK.  Not every book jives with everybody.  I don't feel that people who are grateful for the simple pleasures in life are boring.  I said that the book itself was boring and to me, it seemed to lose focus.  You do not have to agree with me, as I don't agree with you.  I am free to express my opinions on these books.

And yes, I read "Lost Boy", but the book initially led me to believe that it would have more in it about the foster care time period in Dave's life.  You see, I was in 3 foster homes as a kid, and to me, reading about foster care experiences from other people is always interesting to me.

So please, just focus your reviews on the books, not on the reviewers.  I had a legitimate opinion on the book and I expressed it.  I'm sure I'll lose helpful votes on what I've just said to "Gingerwoman", but it's important that we focus on reviewing books and not each other
