This text is by far the worst college text I have encountered in my educational career.  Where most texts stick to relevant facts and figures relating to their area of study, this text delves into opinion coupled with unbridled conjecture.

The text is littered with political opinions and political assumptions made about its reader, while listing irrelevant facts and theories that support a socialist Democrat view of the society of the United States.

Karl Marx and Socialism are continually defended as just economic forms of society while Capitalism is openly bashed at every page turn.  Conspiracy theories thrive in this book as it even accuses the United States' representational democracy as being ineffective, and that the country is actually ran by a conspiratorial "power elite."

The author often inserts personal opinion and biased so-called "personal experiences" with social issues as facts, and assumes the reader is a freshmen student unable to discern his fact from his fiction.
 
Here is a short excerpt from page 189, contained within a chapter dealing with social class:

Like many people, you may have said to yourself, "Sure I can vote, but somehow the big decisions are always made despite what I may think.  Certainly, I don't make the decision to send soldiers to Afghanistan or Iraq.  I don't launch missiles against Kosovo, or Baghdad.  I don't decide to raise taxes or interest rates.  It isn't I who decides to change welfare benefits."

I think it is clear here and in other excerpts from the text that the author should be writing editorials for his local newspaper instead of college texts.  It seems to me that the author intends to mold the minds of the college youth in his political image under the guise of giving a factual accounting of the field of Sociology.

I absolutely do not recommend this book to anyone, and think it is time to inform my university of the contents of this text before more students are forced to purchase it in its next incarnation.

Thanks for taking the time to read my review.  If you feel the same as I do about this text, then please speak up at your local university and here. 
