I was very excited about this book before I started to read it.  Polk appeared to have flawless credentials...surely someone with so much relevent experience would produce an outstanding book on Iraq.  Unfortunately it became clear very early on in this book that my expectations were not to be met.

Let's start witht the obvious.  The subtitle of this book begins as "the whole sweep of Iraqi history..."  The book is 213 pages and even that can be deceiving...physically, the book is very small and the typesetting appears larger than average.  To be sure, no single book could adequately present the whole sweep of Iraqi history, but of all the Iraqi history books I have read or referenced, this book does the poorest job of all in terms of presenting an overview of the country.  I would recommend Anderson and Stansfield's book as an example of one of the best books in this area.

The way Polk has the book organized, it would be reasonable to have high hopes.  There are six chapters: Ancient Iraq, Islamic Iraq, British Iraq, Revolutionary Iraq, American Iraq, and Whose Iraq?  He appears to have the important bases covered, but within these chapters lies a remarkably weak and half-hearted presentation of Iraq's history, at least at the governmental level.

Another somewhat related criticism would be that there are next to no cited sources in the entire book.  From an academic standpoint, this is baffling.  His experience in the field notwithstanding, it is unacceptable to produce what is to be a serious history book and then provide no sources or bibliography.  The key here is to recognize that at its heart, this book is not an attepmt to provide a history of Iraq, but merely an outlet for criticizing the way the U.S. (particularly Bush) has handled Iraq.

Onto that criticism:  Polk is one of those authors that rightly and (mostly) accurately points out all of the bad things the U.S. has done when it comes to Iraq.  From a moral or humanitarian perspective, of course it's wrong to give support to someone like Hussein.  I think most people would agree with that.  What baffles me is that someone could so passionately point out all these bad things and then be so opposed to a war that ultimately removed a regime who surived up to that point because of what the U.S. had done.  Even though it was not the reason given, the U.S. had accumulated quite a large moral debt to Iraq.  In short, we owed it to Iraqis to get rid of Saddam.  Further explanations of this type of thinking can be found in Feldman's "What we owe Iraq," and Cushman's "A Matter of Principle."

My last main complaint about this book is that for all the criticizing and lamenting about U.S. intentions and mistakes (and believe me, these are all warranted), Polk offers no real ideas for what to do to help Iraqis build a better future, and more importantly, he never even touches on the topic of what kind of life these people would have endured if Hussein was still in power today.  I think it's important and necessary to call the U.S. on its mistakes, but at the end of the day, the U.S. actually helped get rid of a dictator this time.  And even though we owe this to a lot of other countries, I can only be glad that humanitarian and security interests were aligned in this case, and that for all the other problems, there is at least a chance for democracy and a better life in Iraq.  That chance certainly did not exist under Hussein.

The biggest let down here is that it is important for people to understand Iraq, but this book I believe, is doing more harm than good.  If you've done a fair amount of reading on Iraq, this will be clear so that's not the danger here.  What would be an absolute tragedy here would be for someone with no prior experience to pick up this book and then think they have a real understanding of Iraq after reading it.  These are the types of books that make my job as a professor harder than it should be because I have to spend so much time in order to defuse all numbers of students who read material like this and base their opinions and judgements from it.  While not nearly as damaging to the process of education and understanding as Michael Moore or Sean Hannity, it is much more disappointing because Polk has the education and experience needed to produce stellar work.  Framed in those terms, this book is largely a failure
