First, I don't get the nice rating this book gets; I guess I never understood why people enjoyed Back to the Future II and III, and Indiana's TEmple of Doom (see my reviews later)...anyway;
My REAL PET PEEVE on why authors seem to enjoy creating mindless sequels like this.
The plot doesn't make any sense, "honorable knights?"  Kitiara and Sturm having a son--my question is, who raised him?--why?  It's so cliche and boring.  Why was this character created? The idea of having Kit's and Sturm's "ghosts" appear is so laughable and horribly written, I am not sure what the point of it was. I couldn't begin to tell you HOW annoying it was for these two spirits to keep appearing.  My question is, if Sturm was really an honorable knight, and as honorable as these authors claimed him to be: would he leave his son or Kit if he KNEW he impregnated Kit?  What the HECK?  I mean, talk about inconsitency in the 'plot' and chacaracters.



Palin--the worst hero ever created.  Boring as ever, and as indecisive as ever.  Is Raistlin really his uncle? sheesh.  In the short adventures they build him up to be something potentially awesome....then in this "sequel" what they do to him? 

Usha: she has golden eyes--they tried NOT to make her Raistlin's kid.  Were they avoiding the incest issue?  I mean, come on, a lot of "great" fantasy authors do it today--Martin, Goodkind, what's the difference with another bunch?  

I had a lot of respect for Weis and Hickman up to this book.  It seemed to me they tried so hard to "wrap" up their previous excellent books, when they didn't need to.  Why did they have to 'disavow' the daughter of Raistlin? I loved the mystery of it whether she was is or not.

Why did they have to bring Raistlin back?  This ruined the legend of this character.
Or kill off Tanis? Or Tas?  
I think they must have heard their fans clamoring for more of the old favorite characters; and decided to unleash an awful book like this. 

I also dislike how every world when the Fourth Age comes, there's no gods, no magic...boring, and cliche.  

Ugh.  Or did Weis and Hickman want to continue to reap the benefits of readers who are too eager for my 'Lance books?
not even worth two cents, in my book.

The battle scenes were horribly done, the "plot" is pyrite at best, 
the "NEW GENERATION" as someone pointed out is overdone like a over grilled steak.
I threw this book down so many times, I actually did what I never thought I'd do to a book once I finished--I tossed it into the trash compactor.
 
-50 on the puke meter.  DON't waste time, energy or money on this trash. TRUST ME.  I only bought this because I was incredibly bored of fantasy authors and the genre itself
