Oh boy...where do I start...I have read the reviews (unfortunately after I read the book) and I'm leaning heavily towards the unpopular zero star option for this book. Since I'm not on Amazon for a majority contest, I can care less if this review provides me with more "not helpful" votes.

The feeling of anticipation I normally get when reading a good book of growing attraction between the protagonists was close to nil in this book. There was of course plenty between the Hero and his mistress, as beautiful and kind and graceful with "honor" &lt;-----Yeah JB gave her plenty of honor) as she was, I found myself wishing She and Lucien got together.

 Again I was thoroughly angered by the fact that the book was mostly from the Heroine's prospective for pages and chapters at a time and specks of the Hero's for paragraphs within the chapter.

I found it very difficult to like this Heroine. Like someone else pointed out, BOTH parties were forced into the unfortunate circumstance, what was the point of her behavior and refusal to be cordial towards the Hero after he asked her time and time again.
What really was the point of her cutting off her nose to spite her face??????

The physical violence was another aspect of the entire book I felt was very poorly dealt with. The first time violence is displayed is NEVER the last, and for Ms Beverly to give the misconception that all turns out well is very disheartening. I cannot even fathom my mind around how "romance" can be amalgamated into the life of two people when one is the abuser and the other the victim?????

Now the historical inaccuracies, as other reviewers so accurately put it, on what planet would someone in the Regency Era have had more than a bath a day????? More often than not, people merely washed up as opposed to taking full baths. 
This is major issue I had a problem with, the introducing the Wife to the mistress...****gasp***** not only that, they become the best of friends.... is this not complete madness!!!!!

This is the second book I have read in the series and I'm not going any further, in the first book there was incest/rape, now this where two step siblings get married/domestic violence???? I guess in this case Ms Beverly tries to carry out her fantasy and make a better justification for it....No more Beverly for me.
