I received my first edition Ordering Your Private World (OPW) in 1985, as an undergraduate. I didn't really like the touchy-feely style of presentation, without any corroborrating references, for example, to the author's science of sleep minimization nor a biblically developed case for journaling. I remain puzzled on many points in the book. Contrary to the author's position, the psalmist tells us that &quot;God grants sleep to those He loves&quot;. While journaling can be a productive discipline, could it also lead to indulgent self-absorption? And if the journal is a private work, why would it be a treasure to posterity? 
 
 As I realize that the author's life could be construed as fairly disordered, at least from several direct observations I've had of him failing to keep his commitments (from the time of his original OPW to the time of this new edition), I feel less discomfort in providing a less than enthusiastic review. During my recent move to a new home, I decided to discard a box of &quot;low-utility&quot; books. Without reticence, I included my old copy of OPW in the junk box. How ironic, perhaps even Spirit guided, my consternation when the current OPW was required reading for an upcoming leadership course, and I had to further donate to the author's estate given how I remembered the first edition. Perhaps that cost could be redeemed by this feedback.
 
 A basic issue for many christians is living the &quot;driven vs. called&quot; life. I believe that the book will be more convicting to those who are driven, because they may experience some empathy with and conviction from the author, who himself is an admitted driven personality. For such a reader, I can only conclude that replacing the drivenness to succeed with a pursuit of God's calling can only expand His creative purpose and kingdom.
 
 I believe that the author is a fellow believer of Jesus Christ, and has been redeemed by God for His purpose. I suspect that I am as much as a sinner as he is, but I'm not the one peddling orderly life advice. Now that I have now read the latest edition, I am still recommending that this probably is not worth your time or money
