I think, like many readers of the Anita Blake series, one question keeps coming to mind. Why do I continue to read her?  The reason is that there is always hope that the series will shift again.  Laurel K Hamilton has invested a great deal in Anita.  She is a necromancer, a succubus, and a panwere, with a very convoluted and confusing personal life.  She is also a Federal Marshal licensed to handle Preternatural crimes.  That is the part of these stories that captured many readers.  However, Laurel K Hamilton has not been paying any real attention to Anita's job, and has focused instead upon the ardeur- the power that makes Anita a succubus.  I tend to find this aspect of Anita the most uninteresting.

And this novel is no exception.  We have some new characters which promise some intrigue in the vampire world, but nothing ever comes of it.  Two of Jean-Claude's "friends" arrive to help celebrate an all-vampire dance troupe.  Both of them have ulterior motives for coming, and cause some problems.  But we don't focus on that.  Merlin, the leader of the Dance Troupe, makes a power-play against six Vampire Masters.  But we don't focus on that.  Instead, we have many sex scenes- some of which are just far too long and descriptive.  The plot seems to stop whenever this happens, and therefore, the story never really gets going. This was the exact same problem in the last two or three Anita Blake novels.

I love the character of Anita.  I have enjoyed watching her deal with her growing powers and her growing understanding of herself, while trying to deal with some interesting preternatural criminal.  But the last few novels have been solely focused on her growing powers and the problems they create. My problem is that there has been no resolution to these problems.  Anita has stopped growing and changing, and is becoming whiny and uninteresting.

In the preview of Harlequin, we find out that Edward is returning. We haven't seen him since Obsidian Butterfly.  Since that was also the last Anita Blake novel I could recommend to someone, I have hope that the series will shift into something worh reading.

We can still hope.  Which is why we're still buying her books
