I had a really hard time getting through this book, even though the whole idea of a book about going to culinary school appeals strongly to me.

From my perspective, the execution of this book felt flat. The writing isn't all that great. It's a bit scattered, and the author gets bogged down in details in some places, and this creates a whole series of speed bumps. It's as if he had better notes about some days than he did others and he or his editor didn't have the discipline to pare down those sections. Also, there's no real arc or story, and no clear conflict. He protests too much about the snowstorm issue because I think it's only real drama that happens to him personally through his experience. 

As other reviewers have pointed out, the author didn't pony up the cash and time to go through the full coursework at the CIA himself. The school's management provided him an abbreviated version of the class that sidestepped the sort of boring parts. From reading, it's clear that most of the key instructors knew that he was writing a book. Now this does not necessarily mean that one can't write a compelling, plot- or character-driven story based on closely following other people's experiences, as both "House" or "Among Schoolchildren" by Tracy Kidder prove.

In this case, however, something's missing. I didn't come to feel strongly about any character in the book, including the author. Yet, here are young people who have bet small fortunes on their love for the kitchen, who sweated through a challening school only to remain poised on the edge of a difficult, competitive career. Surely, interesting human stories existed all around in him in those kitchens, but instead of capturing them, we got laborious descriptions about how to make stock. 

Hence, for me it felt heavy. And, it's a personal feeling after having just finished this one that he fell short of writing a truly "inside" journalistic account of culinary school. It's not a bad book, and it does give a lot of information about culinary school if that's what you're after. I would recommend it to anyone planning to attend the CIA. For me, it just wasn't that great of a read. 
