"When will it end?? NEVER! MUWHAHAHAHAHA!"

REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS*****

First off, up until this point, I found the series moderately entertaining (especially the 2nd book). Granted, in every book, there are certain aspects of Jordan's redundant writing that are very annoying. For instance, the childish, and extremely immature thoughts and actions of the female characters. Realistically, in a time period like that, if a woman acted as arrogant and sexist as they do in this book series, they would get a good "thumping" and be forced to learn from their mistakes (As would anyone really). Instead, the men grovel like slaves around the women. It's very annoying and infinitely un-realistic. Even in fantasy, there are certain rules one must follow pertaining to the characteristics of the human race. Hardly anyone in this series of books makes a rational, practical decision. There is hardly any Logic here, and when someone who is supposedly "Wise" speaks up, its merely common sense that hopefully everyone in real life should, and probably does know. Most of the so-called "intellectual" sayings in this book bassically translate to somthing a 10 year-old kid would know.

Human characteristics aside, Jordan has a great attention to detail when it comes to scenery (Clothing, geography, battle fields etc...) Hardly anything is left out. I suppose this is good, if one really wants to leave the real world and become part of the reality that Jordan has created. 

But here we are...at the 5th book. I hate to say it, but not enough happened in the time-line to justify 5 long books. Sometimes, it is hard to tell just how much time has passed from one point to another. Jordan has virtually no sense of time at all in these books. This can either be as an excuse for such a long series, or its just basically poor writing. I'm a little undecided on that. 

This book is full of the usual aspects that the previous 4 had:

1. Most of the men can't think for themselves (However there are a number of Characters that I do like allot. Uno, Julian, Matt, Asmodean, Lan, Thom, Loial (Who isn't even in this one..go figure) What happened to Elays?? Uhg..

2. The female characters whine and complain like my 2 year old daughter

3. Rand's increase in the One Power, is directly proportional to how much of a complete idiot he is turning into. It all started when he absolutely refused to believe he was the Dragon Reborn (End of Book 1 I believe). It takes him a number of books to finally stop being so damn immature and finally step up, and take action. This is the ultimate annoying aspect in this series. Rand attains the 'Sword that cannot be touched'. A weapon that can level cities...What does he do? Shoves it into the floor at the Stone Of Tear, and scampers off into the woods for another adventure. Wow..smart huh? 

4. The Forsaken are scheming as usual. It's a mystery to me that they were picked by the Dark One. Powerful as they may be, they're mostly stupid, too paranoid, and un-trustworthy of one another. It would make more sense to create a truce and simply eliminate Rand. They could. Everyone knows they could. But they don't...Frustration level ever increasing...

This series seems to remind me of a poorly written play with too many characters to have on stage at any given time. Jordan seems to shove various ones on for certain amounts of time, then shove them off, with hardly a word of goodbye. 

Something that I must point out is the way Jordan decides to kill off, or deal with the "Evil" characters. This whole re-incarnation nonsense is spoiling the importance, and fear of death. I believe it is wrong to kill off so many "Evil" characters at one time. Characters that have potential are eliminated.

And yes...Asmodean. Here comes my biggest gripe of all..
I rather liked Asmodean, his character was interesting, and it was rather refreshing to have someone cross over from the "Evil" side, to "Good" side (Even if it was un-willingly).
He does provide a lot of insight for Rand. If I was a Forsaken, I would defiantly cross over to Rand's side, it only makes sense. BUT...Instead of keeping Asmodean alive and allowing him to help Rand with his great struggle...He's killed off at the end of the book. 

Right there, Jordan drops a huge amount of story potential, and trades it for the same, un-inventive, one-sided drivel that the rest of this book contains. Then Rand goes on to Kill Rhavin. Another interesting Character wasted. Lanfear has also been killed (as far as we know). Again, another interesting character wasted. I could care less about Moraine. After the first book, her character is basically rendered useless, and is completely unneeded. 

All in all, Jordan has a tendency to do away with the interesting characters (Hurin, Ingtar, Elays etc..) And keep the boring, immature ones. (Nynaeve, Egwene, Elayne, Aviendha etc...) 

The series is simply too long, and I'm positive it has over 1000 pages of material that needs to be discarded. If Lord of Chaos is as bad as this one, I'm burning my collection and sending the remains to Jordan's house. 

So, to those who are in the midst of this series like I am, I say to you; 'Welcome back my friends, to the show that never ends'. 
