Since the end of the Cold War and the virtual eradication of the two other great political ideologies of the twentieth century, namely Communism and Fascism, the victory of Capitalism has earned it the right to proceed unmolested and, to a very great degree, unquestioned in its dissemination to every point on the globe.  This, as Samir Amin author of The Liberal Virus aptly points out, could be dangerous.  Capitalism is a system that has always been based on the Darwinian principal of survival of the fittest and as such "can produce nothing other than an intensification of the inequalities between people."

True.  So true.  And anybody who takes the time to actually study Adam Smith's, The Wealth of Nations, will see that the twin engines supposed to drive a Capitalist economy are greed and competition, with very little regard for the actual well being of humans.  This should come as no surprise, as a quick look around at the current champions of Capitalist enterprise in America like insurance, energy and telecommunications will readily reveal.  

Any thinking person must agree that it is at least worthwhile to keep a cautious eye on the current trajectory of unfettered Capitalism, and inquiring into its possible dangers is undoubtedly healthy.  In fact, what's needed is a measured evaluation of Capitalism as it exists today, both good and bad, with the kind of unflinching exploration into its darker implications provided by Samir Amin here.    

But in the current American political climate where knee-jerk Conservatism hold sways and the petty ranting of narrow-minded demagogues is counted as reasoned political discourse, this is no time to inject an analysis of Capitalism with anti-Americanism and hand-wringing over the demise of Socialism.  A book like this advances the issue with only the most restrained and open-minded readers and, for the rest, drags the debate back into the muck of Cold War hysterics.  

Not only does Amin reveal himself as a whiney, vindictive Socialist who would love nothing more than to see America brought to its knees, but he is an obtuse and turgid writer of the kind only academia can produce.  There were sentences in this book I had to read three times before I could figure out what he was saying, and his annoying habit of loading his sentences with digressive clauses, parenthetical clarifications and coined words, had me grateful that this book was only 112 pages long - I have read 300 page books that took me less time to get a handle on.

All in all, The Liberal Virus explores some issues much in need of inquiry but does so in a way that is so off-putting that it cannot gain much traction among American readers, no matter what their stripe, and can only serve to hinder the debate.  What we need is a book about Capitalism that can open minds, not scare them closed or befuddle them with the liberal self-indulgence of its author.      
