...but there's just not enough meat to it. The book is split in three parts. The first part is basically psychological and about claiming your &quot;dark side&quot;. Throughout there are fairy tale inclusions a la Women Who Run With The Wolves and messages from &quot;The Sage&quot;. My biggest problem is how Roderick uses many different definitons for your shadow which often conflict and contradict each other. He says your shadow is the part of your personality that you keep completely hidden from everyone including yourself. Then it is destructive actions that all can see. Then it is simply living in a way that run counter to your society's norms. I was so distracted by trying to reason out what Roderick was trying to say, and it seems like there is something worthwhile there, that nothing ended up resonating with me emotionally. I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how I could make this mean something to me and trying to get something out of it. Another problem I had was that it seemed Roderick was writing for an audience that had never done any self-analysis whatsoever or had delved at all into the darker side of spirit. I can't help but feel that most of that intended audience would not seek out this book. Those that might be attracted to it may find it too redundant or simplistic.
 
 You do have to be into new-agey, pseudo-shamanic activities to enjoy this. There are many guided meditations and arts and crafts activities incorporated. For example, first you are told to create a physical mask that represents your shadow self (I drew a sheild instead), then you make a bracelet with rattles to wear and shake whenever you catch yourself doing something negative (I adapted this into wearing a black hair band on my wrist and snapping it accordingly). Then there are parts describing the negative aspects of Wiccan-type workings, such as to the four directions, the seasons, moving widdershins, making a magic mirror, banishing spells. This can all be found in other books and won't be new to anyone except beginners. There are several pages for appendices, with lots of unused space for padding - natch. Here there are such items as recipes for &quot;dark&quot; oils and incenses. Wisdom oil contains cinnamon, myrrh, and lavender - buy why? Why are these ingredients used? This is what I want to know when I'm told to use them. That's not here. There is however a note to buy Cunningham's book on the subject, from the same publisher of course.
 
 If this all sounds like it might work for you, go ahead and buy it. It's not bad to have if you can get it for a big discount, simply because having all this information in one place can be a good reminder to acknowledge these energies. Otherwise, I'm sure much more detailed information can be found elsewhere
