While these sort of books offer lovely, crisp photographs, they contain very few ideas that are realistic when you're on a tight budget...or if you have children and safety is a concern. This book in particular didn't take safety or budget into concern from my perspective.

Martha Stewart has a book geared at storage solutions and organizations that is actually practical and affordable that I have turned to time and time again. Truly, organization is the key to living in a small space successfully.

Your best bet is to save your money on this book and take a peek at something geared toward organization and stylish storage.... and visit your local IKEA for instead. Regardless of your personal style preferences, IKEA stores are set-up in pre-furnished rooms that really let you test their practicality. If you aren't near an IKEA location, IKEA's website has an entire section devoted to design ideas PLUS you can request a FREE catalog that is jam packed with storage solutions and furniture arrangements that are intended to maximize space when it's at a minimum. The objects themselves aren't important when it comes to your personal style, so focus on placement and use of space rather than whether or not you like that particular cabinet or couch and you'll do great. For example, if country is your style--when you find a room layout that you like, just replace the leather mid-century sofa with a fluffy, cotton duck one instead. IKEA has really warmed up their styles lately so I'm sure you'll find something that works for you when browsing their catalogs and website.

I've kept several of the last few IKEA catalogs at a cost of ZERO dollars for color schemes, hints on how to use light and texture, fun with fabrics and furniture arrangement with oodles of storage.  Hold onto them because they run out fast.

If you are designing with practicality and comfort in mind but aren't near an IKEA store, I urge you to visit the IKEA website and browse their interactive catalog for hints..then print up a page that inspires you. You won't regret it! 
