
		Do Americans truly reject "a return to the starry-eyed nonjudgmental optimism of the 1960s" as Jenkins asserts in his conclusion, or was the 1960s a time of "Camelot" later destroyed by the politics of innuendo, fear and attack?

	In the 1950s, President Eisenhower presided over peace, prosperity and progress;  in the 1960s. Kennedy added vision, ambition and courage.  It was Nixon who shattered this optimism in 1968, and the nation has yet to recover its spiritual soul.  The underlying cause is the crushing American defeat in Vietnam, the second time the US suffered such a debacle.  Americans lost the War of 1812;  then, as now, the response was an inward retreat and a series of devastating wars against isolated and weak enemies.  Americans began a systematic destruction of Native American nations and seized more than half of Mexico.  After 1975 and the rooftop escape from Saigon, Americans watched US troops storm ashore in countries such as Grenada  --  the triumph of the Reagan military build-up  --  and watched, with total mystification, the collapse of the Soviet empire.

	After 1815, the American sense of community based on citizen democracy was lost.  Instead, the new focus became a hatred and destruction of outside terrorists, aka Native Americans.  Such xenophobia offers a powerful sense of national unity and pride for some;  but it doesn't solve internal conflicts.  Since 1975, a similar xenophobia has magnified a handful of Islamic terrorists into an international threat.  Americans financed IRA terrorists for decades;  but are now shocked when facing similar politics of terror.  

	It took almost 50 years for the politics of defeat to blossom into the US Civil War;  now, the Iraq debacle, inept domestic policies and a contempt for human rights are leading to equally sharp divisions.

        The 1960s in America produced a revolution as dynamic as the 1920s in Russia.  The legacy of 1815 eventually produced Jefferson Davis who almost destroyed democracy in America.  In Russia, Stalin utterly crushed all social reform and innovation.  Now, the final casualty of Vietnam may be Bush repressing social reform, justice and equality.

	It didn't start with Carter, although Jenkins, "identifies 1975 to 1986 as the watershed years."  Carter kept America at peace, during his presidency America never dropped a bomb, launched a missile strike, started a pre-emptive war or implemented a policy of torture.  After 66 hostages were seized, he could have destroyed Iran;  instead, he waited even though it cost him the presidency.  All hostages came home alive and well.  It's worth noting the first oil embargo was during the Nixon years, not during Carter's time.

	The years of hate came later after Carter.  His post-presidential efforts won him the Nobel Peace prize in 2002, an honor Bush is unlikely to ever receive. 

	Jenkins offers a rich feast of events from the past 40 years, but he's a thoroughly selective historian, brilliantly recalling history to prove his case past but not offering a clue about the future.  He cites the rise of MADD in the 1970s, ignoring the crackdowns of the 1960s.  For some, history is a study of the past to comprehend the promise, hopes and perils of the future;  for Jenkins, it is a study of the present to understand the past.

	It makes interesting reading, especially for those who think Eisenhower was the pinnacle of American politics.  Like many Americans, Jenkins can't comprehend defeat;  this lack of acumen has produced some of the greatest American triumphs, but can also produce decay.  To understand modern America, consider the two decades from John Quincy Adams to Millard Fillmore and the accompanying rise of religious cults, certainties and charlatans.

	Jenkins doesn't, but the 1820 - 60 period may offer the relevant example he's looking for in terms of mixing theology, history, polemics and the rise of cults.

	It's a disappointing book, unenlightening and bitter.  He could have done much better.



