I was ready to like this book. I wanted to like this book. I'm interested in this particular era and the author has a fine reputation for the historical novel. So I began reading with great anticipation - only to discover deep disappointment. I haven't read his other works but he really strikes out with this one.

The idea is an interesting one - intertwine the story of Marconi, the inventor of wireless telegraphy with a famous murder case in which the wireless figures prominently.

The problem is the author seems to have lost all his understanding of dramtic writing - character development (there is none), tension (there is none, we know the outcome before the book starts), Plot (plodding), Pacing
(the author gives away the wireless tie-in during the first chapter, so there is no mystery at all - no dramatic announcements by the keen and stalwart detective at the last moment to surprise and delight the reader).

These historic, naturally dramatic events are presented as if we were reading a dreadfully boring history book. And there is no dialogue at all!
We only hear from the characters when the author dryly quotes from their letters. Rather then letting the characters speak for themselves and tell their own story, the author lectures us on all that happens. Historically more accurate perhaps but it makes for dull and dreary reading.

The murderer, Dr. Hawley Crippen, is so shockingly inept that one wonders  how the man was able to tie his own shoes. He is so stupid that he can not devise of a simple cover story to explain his wife's disappearance (like she ran off with another man, for example) He allows his girl friend to wear his wife's easily identifiable jewelry and furs - right in his own office! Does he imagine no one will notice? He even sends his flunky out to buy several suits of boy's clothing - all but telegraphing his intent to flee with his girlfriend disguised as a boy.

When its not being a dry-as-dust history book, this tome is like reading a stuffy newspaper article in the Times of London. A nasty twit killed his wife and was caught (yawn).

I gave the book two stars rather then one because at least the parts about Marconi and his struggles to perfect and commercialize his invention are somewhat interesting.

I would recommend it only if you are waiting in the dentist's office and there was absolutely nothing else to read (and you found it sitting there).
 
In summary: a depressingly dull and boring book. Don't waste your hard earned money on this one
