
I couldn't put the other books in this series down.  I really liked the first book about Caitlin.  The second one was still fairly good.  But after I went to college and the local library didn't have the Diary of a Teenage Girl series, I ceased reading the rest of the books until the books about Chloe came out.  Recently I bought "I Do!" the latest book about Caitlin, and figured that I should read the previous two books about Caitlin that I had never read before.  This book is awful.  It is outdated, biased, and features some really interesting sermons and interactions with Tony, Caitlin's pastor.  Finally, I'd like to point out that for a girl who is in her senior year, Caitlin sure does not mention her high school graduation or college all that much.  

	The lingo in this book is outdated. Who says "dude" in the context that Caitlin does anymore?  I haven't heard it used that way since the Olsen twins used it on Full House.  I was nine back then.  And no one that I can think of ( I've only heard it used by Republicans) uses slang like "wetback" to describe a Latina girl. (page 99).  And take this one as you will: (from page 142): "Well, the girl I picked up today had a spiky, butch haircut, (dyed jet black with bleached tips), and a pierced belly button, not to mention multiple piercings in her ears. Her pants were riding so low I was afraid we'd see the moon rising before the sun went down.  And her T-shirt...looked like it had never seen the inside of a washing machine."  This is her reference of Chloe.  I checked the copyright on this book:  the clothing Chloe was wearing was very "in" back then, I checked my old Seventeens to make sure.  In that passage Caitlin sounds like a grandmother.  If she were a preppy, like she supposedly is, she would say things like "I just don't get her" followed by "she is such a freak."  And then there is Natala.  A real-life version of Natala would have been cussing in Beanie's face, not calling her a "cracker."  Especially if Natala is pissed that Beanie is a white girl dating a black guy. I realize that this is a Christian book, but Carlson could have at least hinted  that Natala was mad by having Caitlin saying something like "then she said words I don't want to repeat here."  

	Next, we have the whole Carlson eating up Josh Harris's famous dating book thing.  In this book, dating is the cause of Jewel's attempted suicide.  It is the cause of Trent's coming out of the closet.  It causes Beanie and Anna to go nuts at each other.  It causes Caitlin to go on a whole "I'm better than them because I don't date and I'm saving myself for marriage" spree.  And Carlson, through Caitlin's pastor and parents, seems to endorse this "I'm the better Christian than you because I don't date" mentality.  Caitlin repeatedly chastises her friends and family for dating.  She blames dating for all the problems her friends and family experience.  She even tells Beanie's mother what to do about dating.  And what is even more interesting is that everyone is so understanding of her decision, including non-Christians.   I would not in reality hang out with someone like Caitlin because of the holier than thou attitude and the "I'm better than you are mentality" I've seen in her.  She repeatedly tells her friends this: dating is bad, dating is bad, and there is no point in high school dating. Unghh.  It was cute in the first two books, in this book it is ANNOYING. What bothers me even more is that in one entry in the book, Caitlin claims that her pastor takes Bruce Wilkinson's book "The Prayer of Jabez" and does nothing but read from it and quote it.  If my pastor did this, I would walk out.  Pastors are supposed to preach sermons on THE BIBLE, not some book written by some guy that is for some reason being distorted as scripture.  And then Carlson assumes that Psychologists feel that there is a specific gay gene (she really needs to do her homework.)

	And finally, my all time favorite: Carlson forgot that this year is Caitlin's senior year.  She makes college seem easy.  I have never seen a college where you can apply clear in April and still get in. Never.  And where is all the joys of being a senior in Caitlin's dairy? Try nonexistant.  The only way that I could tell that she's getting closer to graduation is by the dates of her entries.  She never mentions her cap and gown, her invites, cake, parties, plans after graduation (besides kissing college goodbye and going to Mexico), senior parties or anything.  The one college she does visit is marred by Carlson's age at telling it.  She goes on about how she "feels all grown up"  nothing is mentioned about being away from home, finding new friends, meeting a new roommate or anything.  And Caitlin never seems nervous.  She is never joyous that she is moving on.  Like I said, there is no mention of anything senior year in here, and very little about her hunting for a college.  

	Bottom line, this book is flat out unrealistic at best.  Try something by Nancy Rue instead. In fact, I recommend the book "Fault Lines" by Nancy Rue.  It too, covers racial issues.  But the main character is still learning and growing, and as a junior looking into college already.  There is also "Hold on Tight" by Robin Jones Gunn, about Sierra Jensen and her brother Wes's journey to several colleges in California, as well as Sierra's elation at finally being on her own.  Pass this one up.  It isn't worth your time. If you are a fan of this series, skip to the Chloe books.  
