I find it fascinating that many have disussed Mr. Cramer's exhaustive resarch for this book.  Most of the assertions about DiMaggio's mob connections, pettiness, cruelty, money laundering (at one point the author mentions hundreds of thousands of dollars hidden in his house in San Francisco), do not have any footnotes.  We are to assume his supposed interviews with the people he cites at the back of the book are the source. But where's the source for the author's claim about the paper bags of money hidden in the house, and supposedly carried out by Joe himself after an earthquake?  You can't tell us an outrageous fact like that without telling us where you got it. Also, Cramer freely quotes dialogue, supposedly said by DiMaggio, that would be impossible to have known unless he was in the room. Even people relaying what DiMaggio said 50 and 60 years later could not have provided the exhaustive dialogue on display here.  I suspect it was mostly written by the author, and used to back up the cold, calculating man Cramer wanted to depict.  Where Cramer succeeds is in his portrayal of how DiMaggio was driven to succeed as a ballplayer, and literally felt he could take over a game and win. Given the many personal injuries he fought through, which Cramer mentions (and were part of the public record), it's remarkable what DiMaggio's Yankees were able to acheive - 10 pennants and 9 World Championships in 13 years.  And it's abundantly clear that DiMaggio's teammates felt that he was always capable of a big hit or a big play whenever it was needed.  He proved it to them over and over.  I agree with the reader who said this book should have ended when DiMaggio retired.  Mr. Cramer obviously knew that wouldn't be enough to make it a best seller.  The Marilyn Monroe segment and the end of Joe's life are unfortunately painted in a sensational way, and this is the area where it feels like the author is really playing fast and loose with the truth.   That Joe DiMaggio was a shy man who was driven by demons, I wouldn't deny.  His rise from immigrant roots that he was sometimes ashamed of is a classic American story.  It shouldn't be told by a character assassin like Richard Ben Cramer.
