I gave this book 2 stars because it is historically significant to understand the thinking of the gender feminists of the 1960s. 

I also found the discussion of the equality feminists from the 1800s to be interesting. The right to vote for women was of course important as were several other causes that the equality feminists fought for.

I rated this book low because the author attempts to explain the housewife phenomenon but ends up overgeneralizing and trying to speak for all women. The author is very snobby and self-rightous, thinking she is able to determine which women are really fulfilled and living their life to it's fullest potential. The ideas in this book are what caused people like my mother to talk negatively about "dumb housewives," and to eat their words when their own children, such as myself, grew up and became...housewives (or what we now call "stay at home moms." Which, I might add was mostly fueled by watching my workaholic mother (who I do love very much) who didn't seem to enjoy anything in life...except work) Fortunately, we can teach our biased and prejudiced mothers that some women really do get fulfillment from raising their own children/homes. 

I am only going to touch on some of the ridiculous arguments in this book, because there are too many to list:

Ms. Friedan gives "evidence" that children in other's care actually turn out better than those raised by their mothers. Great. So, she was teaching a generation of women that they are better off working than caring for their own children; that other people can do a better job than they can. What a vote of confidence. 

The author goes on and on about how mothers were smothering their children, and this is why many turned to a life of the "feminine mystique." Sorry, but a 1950s mom with 7 children and a lack of modern conveniences did not have time to smother her children. Basic care for as many children as women had in the 1950s would consume most of a mother's time. If you want to see parents who overwhelm their children with attention (and material goods) and live vicariously thru them, look around in 2006.

According to the "research" (and I use this term lightly because someone as depressed as Ms Friedan must have had trouble seeing the happiness in others) in this book you are either: 1) WORKING MOTHER- mentally stable, able to do household tasks in lightning speed and raise completely competent children. 2)EDUCATED HOUSEWIFE- most likely on drugs and/or are alcoholic, are so depressed you contemplate suicide, have dysfunctional children and a husband who is trying to get away from your sexual advances. 3) UNEDUCATED HOUSEWIFE- content with life because you are a complete idiot.

Ms. Friedan completely ignores that there were (and there still are...) a significant percentage of women who WANT to be at home caring for their families and homes. I'm sure there were millions of women who were benefitted by being emancipated from their homes. That is good that they were happier with more choices. However, Ms. Friedan should have encouraged them to do this without dragging millions of other women thru the mud. 

With her chapter on the "sexual sell:" I'm glad that she figured out people make money thru advertising by manipulating people. Advertisers manipulate everyone, not just women. And, I am sure the "thing-buying" housewife of the 1950s was nothing like the guilt-ridden working or stay at home mom today who's child has so many toys he/she doesn't know what to do except claim, "I'm bored" due to being so overwhelmed. 

p. 85: Ms. Friedan quotes someone who says, "To make one half the human race consume its energies in the functions of housekeeper, wife and mother is a monstrous waste of the most precious material God ever made." The fact that Ms. Friedan would even give credit to this comment by citing it in her book speaks volumes about her mentality. 

When I thought the ideas in this book couldn't get any more rediculous, Ms. Friedan started talking about homosexuality...The Feminine Mystique is driving men to be gay! Men are so repulsed by their over controlling wives and mothers that they are turning against women and "turning" homosexual! Also, Ms. Friedan thinks housewives are sex-crazed zombies in search of any man...and finally this comment: "I am convinced there is something about the housewife state itself that is dangerous. In a sense that is not as far-fetched as it sounds, the women who "adjust" as housewives, who grow up wanting to be "just a housewife" are in as much danger as the millions who walked to their own death in the concentration camp..." Is this woman serious? This stuff is so warped I can hardly put it into words!!

It is my opinion that this author was 1) extremely depressed and/or had psychological problems 2) was insanely jealous of happy wives/mothers.
