Words cannot describe how disgusted I am by this book. It takes everything we know to be fact and spits and tramples all over it. 

This book is the exact equivalent of the same kind of garbage that was spewed by 19th century racist "scholars" like Houston Stewart Chamberlain, Oswald Mosley, and John Burgess. Just as they argued for white supremacy, so too does George James argue for the opposite. Nothing ever changes it seems; millions of people have to suffer and die because of racist ideologies, and yet people never truly learn the dangers of such a sickening worldview.

First of all, I'm not against people re-analyzing history. All historians will often look back at their work, or the work of someone else which may have become antiquated over the years. New ancient works may be discovered which challenge the viewpoints which we may have held as fact for decades. This is good. It allows us to get a more accurate view of the ancient world so as to learn from it. This is different from revisionist history, where the thesis is largely debated among historians. Unfortunately, and it's sad to say, this book doesn't even qualify under revisionist history; it's full of malignant lies. For those who haven't read it, here's a summary:

James argues that Egyptian civilization was black. Fair enough; if that's his argument, he must have proof, right? Well, not quite. DNA testing which has recently been done on mummified corpses (by scientists from ALL races, mind you) shows that they contained traces of Nordic, Semitic, and Persian, among many others. This was seen for both the Pharaohs and the lower class corpses. By my calculation, this means two things; either A) There is a worldwide conspiracy among all scientists involved to hide their true findings and simply make stuff up in order to fill their own agenda, or, more likely, B) James hasn't a clue what he's talking about. According to James, everyone in Egypt was black...except for the hundreds of people whose DNA indicates they were not. But hey, I guess it's possible for two entirely black people to have a Semitic/Persian/Nordic child. 

It gets worse. Did you know that the Greeks were simply crooks who stole all of their ideas from the Egyptians? That's right, the Greeks didn't invent anything, it was all stolen! James has proof too: Aristotle travelled to Egypt, where he visited the Library of Alexandria and stole all of the knowledge from the Egyptians. Ouch, that's pretty rough isn't it? That's enough proof to put the nail in the coffin of Greek learning. There's just one problem; it's not true. Aristotle died in 322 BC. The Library of Alexandria was built by Ptolemy II Philadelphos, who ruled from 281 BC to 246 BC. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but it would be pretty difficult for Aristotle to steal ideas from a Library which was built over 40 years after his death. But hey, in Mr. James' book the dead not only rise again, but also steal ideas and formulate complex thought patterns in only a short matter of time. 

"The term Greek philosophy, to begin with, is a misnomer, for there is no such philosophy in existence." This is what he writes early in the book. I don't even know how to refute this argument, if one could call it such. James believes that Greeks stole their ideas from Egypt. Philosophy, science, all of it. To be fair, this belief could be possible. The Greeks were definitely influenced by the Egyptians; only a liar would deny that. But here's what I don't understand. How is it that after the Egyptians had their ideas stolen from them, they don't make a single mention of these philosophical ideas? The Egyptians were notorious for how well they recorded their achievements, yet not a single papyrus scroll, engraving, or work of art mentions anything about philosophy. This leads me to believe that either, A) The Greeks stole the Egyptian's ideas, and then Egypt suffered an epidemic of amnesia whereby everyone forgot that they ever had these ideas, or B) James is full of it. Imagine, if you will, that you and a friend are writing an essay on the same topic. Your friend comes over and, while you're unaware, steals your paper and hands it in before you. Now, instead of reporting him for what he's done, you completely forget that you ever wrote a paper, and cheerfully go about your life as if nothing happened. Sounds ridiculous, right? Yet this is the exact type of logic James uses in his book, where it is just as laughable.

I just don't understand what the point of this book is. That blacks are better than whites? Even if that were true, what does the author propose? That we discard all of Greek and Roman history because it's stolen? That schools should only teach history about black people? James never actually discusses why he wrote this book.

However, what sickens me most about this book is that it completely ignores the fact that Africa actually extends BELOW just Egypt and Nubia, and that marvellous civilizations have existed there since long before these two. African civilization is largely unknown because the tribes in sub-Saharan Africa to a large extent relied on oral tradition. There tribes did not have a Livy, Polybius, Thucydides, or Tacitus to record their achievements with a fair degree of accuracy. It is sad to say, but what is today known as sub-Saharan Africa has for a long time garnered an atrocious press. Racist ideologues called them savages and barbarians, simply because their civilization differed from theirs, and sadly, this view has stuck in many places around the world. Indeed, the truth is that Africans have a lot to be proud of, just as Europeans and Asians do. Men like George James do nothing but cause even more hatred when it is not needed.
