Interesting how this book is by a professor of law
and the book starts with chapter one laying down
a guilt trip for thinking differently. Not too dissimilar
to socially engineering a jury to take your side out of guilt
during a courtroom opening statement perhaps.

Chapter 2 is really where all of the Darwinian Evolution
objections are laid out. Which could roughly be summed up as..

1)DNA contains information, information can only come from 
intelligence, so there must be a god/intelligent designer.

2)Meaningful information sequences + mindless repetition
can not equate into meaningful information or enhancement
of information.

3) He calls for examples of information increase or
enhancement. (Can't seem to say decisively)

+1) Johnson works the 'information challenge' as if life
was only information. What he fails to mention is that life
is about having function that serves that life form.
Function can come about randomly, and information and meaning
are derived from that function. Life did not start with DNA
and a huge set of information, it started with one self serving
function that aided in the replication of a form(now life-form)
over others.
 Johnson makes numerous mentions of 'natural selection' and
'mutation' but makes no mention of the fact that 99% of our
genome is junk and not information. Also without mention
is 'cumulative selection'. Instead he manipulates an analogy
Dawkins makes to hide from the power 'cumulative selection'
has on turning useless bits of junk, in to a structure with
function and derived meaningful information.

+2) This point is completely ignorant and shows that hes writing
in a field he has little experience with. Information can be
enhanced by 'mindless repetition governed by invariable laws'.
For example, Delimiters.
AMAZONBOOKS2000INTELLIGENTDESIGNJOHNSON
or
AMAZON,BOOKS,2000,INTELLIGENTDESIGN,JOHNSON
        
(This alphanumeric string is meaningless unless it can
serve a function. Once the function is understood it can
serve as something truely informative ie. information)
             
Mindlessly repetitive delimiters ',' contain no actual
information, but enhances the information set by providing a
function, fault tolerance.

+3)He calls for examples of information increase or
enhancement,without being clear on which, and that there
is a differance between increase and enhancement.
 This call for evidence is shown to be increasingly pointless by
his inablity to ask for what type of 'information increase'
such as.. 
 total information capacity, % of capacity used, or
 true(compressed) % of capacity used.
or to say genetically..
 genome size, # of genes, or # of active genes

                         --

The last part of the book is a feeble attempt at trying to
now link this 'information design theory' directly to the Bible,
which I surprising found to contain no argument for. Johnson
must assume his negation of Darwinism leaves the Bible as the
only logical alternative so why bother the reader with an
argument he/she should feel guilty at disagreeing with (makes
lots of references to Chapter 1 at this point, tap into that
guilt!).

This book does however serve a good purpose, that of
pointing out how scientific understanding can be manipulated
and the weak points in the education of that scientific
understanding.

A fine work of social engineering at the least.

 mikes@signull.co
