This is an altogether poor how to draw book that leaves a lot to be desired. Its meager introduction only contains a very haphazard list of materials without specifications or descriptions, followed by the most unhelpful step-by-step layout I have ever seen on a how to draw book. On the left pages it has a full-page color drawing of one Justice League superhero with a short history of the character. On the opposite page there are four progressive drawings on graph paper on how to obtain that finished image, as in copying the same previously presented image and not being able to create your own. There are NO instructions on how to go from one step to the other, and NO discussion of guidelines on basic figure drawing, head and figure proportions, movements or expressions, comparisons of male and female figure features, or perspective and foreshortening for backgrounds and figures, all of them essential issues to any serious cartoonist. It also lacks instructions on compositional drawings, i.e., drawings showing two or more superheroes interacting with backgrounds.
This 32-page book also contains a 2-page presentation, a 1-page introduction, a 1-page conclusion, and 4 sheets (8 pages) of graph paper in the back, leaving you with only 20 pages (10 images) of superhero drawings, that is: 2 for Superman, 2 for Batman, 2 for Wonder Woman and one each for Martian Manhunter, Green Lantern, Flash and Hawkgirl.
I would recommend buying any of the three Ty Templeton books on cartooning the DC comics universe first: How to Draw Batman, How To Draw Superman or How to Draw Batman and Other DC Comics Superheroes, to get your money's worth of everything missing from this book. Or, if you are desperate to draw the Justice League like Bruce Timm, try downloading some images from the Internet and practice copying them on graph paper, you'll probably do just as well or a lot better than by buying this book.
This book is aimed for a 9 to 12 years-old audience, but even they will find the lack of instruction in this book frustrating, what it lacks in depth, it doesn't compensate in price or print quality.
--Reviewed by Maritza Volma
