Send in your query or your three chapters to fifty of these guys and then wait.  First, they don't want to read them.  They hire someone to do this task.  They don't want to do it either.  They send you their rejection card and don't even acknowledge the title of your book.  Once they did. Now they're too many of you.  They do get shills to write good things about their own published book because they want the expectant writer to buy it.  That's how they make money.  You must have a contact with a publisher or an agent or they won't touch your stuff.  Even Hemingway was going nowhere until Scott Fitzgarald reccommended him.  Enough though of opinion.  Ask anyone that you know who is an aspiring writer if they ever got a positive response from an agent.  Michael Blake "Dances With Wolves" never got an agent until Costner said he was going to make the movie.  Even then it was like pulling rotting teeth.  The publishers sent regection after rejection until Blake sold it for $5,000 (to be published in paperback)with a $1,000 bonus if the picture was actually released.  He had given up writing after 35 years when "Dances" sold.  But who did he have to know...Kevin Costner of all people.  Another agent, not Blake's, said he had only taken one client on in one year and only because the guy sent him a bottle of French wine.  He liked French wine.  Go to the agent.  (How badly do you want to be published?) Talk to the agent.  Find out if they are even in the neighborhood of what it is that you're writing.  Call publishers.  Talk to their assistants.  They'll talk to you if you keep it short.  Find out what they really want.  Go to the library or the internet but don't encourage these "Write and be published authors."  They are conning you.  None of these agents have the slightest intention of reading your chapters.  Anyway, one way or the other you will find out.  Don't use someone else unless you have an "in;" be your own agent.  Good luck you writers.  Some of you are great and are anguished over nothing.  You will succeed.  Do it yourself and don't forget foreign publishers that publish in English.  They will read your stuff. For heaven's sake's don't just sit there! Good hunting! 
