I have a little trouble sometimes maintaining a conversation, and small talk really isn't my forte.  I don't ordinarily buy self-help books, but I read the reviews of this one and I thought I'd give it a try.  Well, the good news is that apparently I'm much more socially capable than I'd thought.  The bad news, for me, is that this book has little to offer to anyone capable of even the most banal responses in social situations.  Say, for example, that someone comes up to you at a party and happens to mention that they've just returned from France.  Would you (a) ask what airline they took and whether they enjoyed the flight, (b) ask what parts of France they'd visited, (c) offer observations based on your own experience in France, (d) ask the person how, as an American, he or she was received in France given the recent international tensions between the two countries, or (e) offer up any one of a thousand other innocuous responses?  According to Garner, you should ask the person &quot;how did you manage to get hotel rooms over there?&quot; or &quot;in what way was the food there different from what we have here?&quot;  Well, you can probably imagine how much further the conversation is fated to go once your interlocutor realizes that he/she is talking to a complete ditz: &quot;Well, I called and made a reservation.&quot;  &quot;It's, uh, French food.&quot;  I can see these suggestions being of some help if your only other alternative was to stammer out some unintelligible response, or to say, &quot;Ooh la la,&quot; or some such thing.  Such examples are rife throughout the book, leading me to believe that it could only possibly help the most socially inept among us.  Honestly, I'm not trying to be mean-spirited, and I can see how this book _might_ help someone who simply cannot think of a single thing to say.  But even in that regard, Garner advances theories and then cuts them short without developing them.  About five times I turned the page, expecting to continue reading whatever mildly interesting thesis Garner had put forth, only to find that the chapter had ended!  The book is basically a powerpoint presentation for nerds.  You're better off just having a little confidence in your own abilities
