Up to the death of Peter the Great in 1725, John Lawrence's "A History of Russia" is a typical and useful national history. He chronicles the emergence of Russia, the character of its rulers, and its relations with other states. The Orthodox Church receives a generous share of the author's attention, but nothing compared to what is to come.

Then, inexplicably, the character of the book changes. It leaps forward from 1725 to 1825 in just a few pages, then settles down to become a history of Tsarist and Soviet domestic policy, with special emphasis on the Church. Major events such as Napoleon's invasion and the Crimean War are mentioned only in passing. Tsarist Russia's expansion into Asia and Europe isn't mentioned at all, nor do we learn how and why Russia entered World War I.

During the Soviet era, the book's focus is entirely on Russia's internal economic and social policies. There is no mention at all of the Soviet role in exporting Communism to other countries, of the Spanish Civil War, of Korea, Vietnam, or Afghanistan. Science is ignored as well. How can a history of Russia have nothing to say about the nuclear arms race, the Soviet space program, the Cuban missile crisis or the Chernobyl disaster? Lawrence doesn't even mention the names of the men who ruled Russia in the twenty years between Khrushchev and Gorbachev. Instead, several chapters are devoted again to the government's policy towards the Church. Lawrence concludes the book (this edition went to press in 1991) with a prediction that the Orthodox Church will once again become the center of Russian life, and a wish for a similar transformation to faith-based government in Western countries.

The book is not without merit, as the author makes some very interesting observations on the nature of Soviet government, the effects of its policies, and the difficulties it overcame. Lawrence is highly sympathetic to the qualities of the Russian people. He is also quite fair in pointing out the sincerity and the significant accomplishments against great obstacles of the Bolshevik revolutionaries. It is primarily in the post-World War II era that the text becomes almost exclusively a lengthy rant against Soviet economics and its persecution of the Church
