Peterson is a self-made man and obviously is, and should be, proud of it.  He is so proud of it in fact that he sees himself as the living paragon of black bootstrap success; the model that all blacks should strive for and emulate.  Its the tired old "if I can do it, anyone can do it" model of black American success.  

There is of course a lot to be said for this model; and it certainly does no harm to promote it as a template for black male success -- especially these days when there are so few models except for rich whiney athletes, hustlers, drug pushers and rap stars.  However, like the liberals he criticizes so mercilessly, Peterson is also guilty of not being able to see beyond the idiosyncarcies of his own experience.  

Terms like "systemic" and "structural" racism obviously have no place in his reasoning nor any real meaning to him.  He would of course dismiss the idea that black Americans are not the worst off in this culture. Yet, it is true. Arguably, Native Americans are not just worse off, but are much worse off than blacks.  They do not live cramped in the inner city ghettoes, rife with crime, drugs, and illigitmacy, and arguably are the most assimilated of all of America's minority groups, yet they are much, much worse off than blacks.  How does Mr. Peterson begin to explain this phenomenon in terms of his bootstrap success model?  

Surely he will use whatever cultural characteristics Native Americans have and exhibit, against them; that is, he will continue explaining away their problems by blaming their character.  If so, then we can move on to poor white people, who in various pockets of America, are also as bad off, if not worse off than most blacks, and incredibly these very hard working high moral and religious people have all of the advantages of being members of the superior white race.  Again, one would presume that Mr. peterson would have to find some clever way of attributing negroid behavior and character to them, and claim IT to be responsible for their lack of "bootstrapped" success.  

I believe the poor, all poor, not just the black poor, must share some of the responsibility for their plight. Yet, there are indeed larger forces in play in our society which are determinative in many, if not most instances.  And for that reason alone there must be an end put to these "blame the victim" testimonials masquerading as social theory and explanation. 

Jessie Peterson's success is admirable on its face and he should  justifiably be proud of it.  But it does not explain anything but how he as one individual "lucked out."  As much as we all wish it were true, his success is not a fail-safe template for U.S. success, writ large any more than the liberal welfare system was a template for raisng the poor out of poverty. These problems are just not that simple.

The point of systemic racism is that in gerenal, young white men, do not have to "luck out."  For them success is a given, unless they screw up along the way; and even then they get multiple chances to correct their mistakes and move again onto the success track. 

For young black men such as Peterson, the opposite is true: failure is a given unless all the stars of the universe happen to line up in the proper configuration, and even then white people must like you and you must have the right attitude, wear the righ clothes and speak properly. 

Booby traps are planted everywhere -- specifically to snare you. One bad credit report, one too many traffic violations, one fist fight, one bad report card, one too many sick days, not to mention going to jail for even the most trivial reason, and your success story is over.  What would be minor indiscretions for a young white, are life sentences for a black male youth.  

I "lucked out" and so did Mr.Peterson, but I am willing to bet any amount of money, that as is true in my case, that in the same household as Mr. Peterson, with the same strong values and high moral codes that he seems so proud of, that very few if any of his other own siblings were able to "luck out" to success as he did.

Although there are many good aspects to this book, overall it is anti-intellectual, narrow-minded and a self-serving vehicle for morally questionable right-wing causes and propaganda. Clearly Mr. Peterson is cashing in on his radio show popularity.  And even though his success story -- being an uneducated black man and yet making it in a very hostile American culture -- is one worth telling -- a little humility and less of the right-wing tripe -- would have made this a much more interesting piece.  

Despite these shortcomings, I still recommend that blacks read it -- if for no other reason than to see what a narrowminded success story, and having a right-wing political pedigree and connections can do to swell the head of an uneducated black man.  Two star
