[...]

"Johnnie and Dorothy met on the show [What's My Line mystery guest segment]."  Co-authors Larry and Bonnie Hearn Hill have their characters meet that way, but the Hills' premise demonstrates their ignorance of Hearst news reporting.  I will explain.

The reason Johnnie Ray appeared on What's My Line for the first time was to plug his first movie:  There's No Business Like Show Business.  The year was 1954, and it was a Hollywood creation.   It started production two years after Johnnie first became famous, and that initial fame happened on the Broadway circuit and in jukeboxes.  He sold a record number of tickets at the Copacabana nightclub (a mile away from Broadway but part of the Broadway club circuit) in April 1952 followed by a stint at the Paramount, then a major part of Times Square.

The point is, Johnnie Ray and Dorothy Kilgallen had at least one conversation in the spring of 1952, long before What's My Line united them.  Part of her job was to interview every singer who sold a lot of tickets at those clubs.  Had she neglected this job duty in 1952, her bosses would have lost all faith in her.  

Catholic Dorothy's bosses were the Catholic sons of the recently expired William Randolph Hearst Sr., and they hadn't started mismanaging their empire yet.  In 1952 Hearst plus those nightclubs plus Toast of the Town had absolute control over which recording artist became a teen idol.  Johnnie Ray became one; Merv Griffin didn't.  They were almost the same age. 

So why would Dorothy Kilgallen pass up a Johnnie Ray interview until he'd toured the world and finished a movie shoot on the Fox lot?  No way.  The authors screwed up this initial incident in their plot.  Selling many tickets at the Paramount by itself warranted interviews with Kilgallen, Sullivan, Winchell, etc.  Were the Hearsts that dumb in 1952?  They had a monopoly on entertainment journalism then.

My reasoning supports the claim of Miami - based comedian George Hopkins.  Nobody has published his eyewitness account of Johnnie and Dorothy meeting at a press party for his new 45 single that sold more copies than any 45 single on the Columbia label up to that time.  Party took place at the old Astor Hotel across the street from the Paramount marquee that shouted "Johnnie Ray."  Also present:  Vic Damone, Tony Bennett, Kitty Kallen and many others who passed long ago.

The Hills paint Dorothy's search for Lee Oswald's delusions/accomplices as an obsession that started in November 1963, blocking every other story within her reach.  In truth, she devoted an entire column to the kidnapping and rescue of Frank Sinatra Jr. just weeks after Oswald died.  You don't see any traces of her feud with Frank Sr. in it.  She lambasted TV reporters for asking police officials the wrong questions.  She wanted them to ask why the kidnappers set up the ransom drop at a highway overpass that was well - lit at night.

I'm well aware the Hills always write fiction.  You can see a list of their titles.  Why did they devote their very first novel to transforming a smart, worldly woman into a horny Catholic who sees paths to paradise and conspiracy everywhere?  Bonnie Hearn Hill proves what Shirley Chisholm said about more people picking on her for being a successful woman than for being a successful African American.  

Ms. Chisholm and Ms. Kilgallen were New Yorkers and contemporaries, and Ms. Chisholm made her famous observation just a few years after the Voice of Broadway expired.  Sadly, the reality of sexism trumping racism burns brightly in 2005.  When was the last time you read in the Sunday New York Times that James Baldwin was ugly with bulging eyes?  His looks don't matter, but Ms. Kilgallen's weak chin does.  

Dorothy referred to James Baldwin during her testimony on behalf of Lenny Bruce's First Amendment rights, but that's yet another episode the Hills ignored while they painted their Kennedy / Marilyn / bisexual chic portrait.  No one ever went broke underestimating ..
