Yes, my review is one star, only because Amazon doesn't have zero.

This is the type of book you would expect from some internet self-publishing site.  The fact that St. Martins Press greenlighted this project casts serious doubt on their judgment.

The factual errors are mind-boggling.  Sorry, Ken, Hans Conreid did NOT narrate Fractured Fairy Tales on Bullwinkle.  Actors Gaillard Sartain and Richard Moll are NOT dead as of this writing (August 2005), so they were probably alive in 2004 when you wrote this book as well.  Actress Jane Curtin does not spell her last name as in the "curtain" you hang from a rod.  Johnny Carson did NOT do the Tonight Show for 31 years (it was 29 and a half).  Jack Benny's famous reply to "Your money or your life!" was "I'm thinking, I'm thinking!"...not "I'm thinking it over."  Michael McKean did NOT participate in Spinal Tap before Laverne & Shirley.  You only missed that one by a decade.  Batman did NOT premiere on ABC in 1964.  You're getting closer, it was 1966.  The word "forgotten" is spelled with an "e" at the end; not an "o."  The detective on Miami Vice was Tubbs; not Stubbs.  And is an "informercial" the same thing as an infomercial?

These are factual and grammatical errors I found by reading perhaps HALF the book.  It is categorized  by stupid "love-hate categories, so it's easy to skip over shows or genres you don't care about.  But I now know that Mr. Tucker, who somehow manages occasional employment by respectable magazines, LOVES Ricky Nelson, "Full House," Aaron Spelling, Simon Cowell, Richard Hatch, "Silk Stalkings," Lisa Bonet, and "Welcome Back Kotter,"
but HATES "M*A*S*H," Johnny Carson, "The Price Is Right," "Mystery Science Theater," "Family Guy,"  and PBS.  Talk about being out of touch with the reading public.  He bounces all over the place, flinging his mindless meanderings toward the wall, but in the end, nothing sticks.  

This book adds nothing to anyone's perspective of TV.  There's no depth, or new information here.  Apparently Mr. Tucker spent a couple weeks spewing out a like/dislike list, and a gullible publisher sent this one to press without editing, fact-checking, or apparently any regard to buyer appeal.  I get the feeling someone got called on the carpet for this one.  It's inexcusable
