There comes a point in every conversation about terrorism with liberals when they announce, with the all of the smug assurance of the possessor of a great and secret knowledge, "America is the greatest terrorist state in history". I've never quite believed in this theory and have always felt that it was so obviously untrue that it didn't require refutation. As real terrorism increases and this mantra is no longer being chanted solely by the dim but earnest but has even penetrated to the sub-plankton of the intellectual food-chain, I feel that the lie that will not die deserves its day in court. 

Perhaps the foremost proponent of the theory of America as a terrorist state is William Blum, author of "Rogue State" a book recommended by no less a personage than that great modern master of terror, Osama bin-Laden. I'm using mainly this work as evidence for the prosecution. As evidence for the defence I will be calling on history, logic and common sense.

I'm not claiming that Blum's book is factually incorrect; in fact Blum is an impressive collector of facts and statistics, it's just that Blum never seems to have learned the meaning of a little thing called "context". As the poet Blake said, "A truth that's told with bad intent beats all the lies you can invent". In this instance Blum's ignorance of context involves amnesia about a violent internationalist ideology that still blights the lives of millions of Cubans, Chinese and Koreans. If you are thinking "Communism" give yourself a nice big gold five-pointed star. In almost every one of the conflicts described by Blum America was intervening to prevent the spread of Communism. In this respect America has been the victim of its own success. America did prevent the spread of Communism and because of this we never get to see how most of these countries would have turned out under the governance of the various ragbag of revolutionary movements that were suppressed. Fortunately, or unfortunately as the case may be, we have both living examples and historical evidence to take into consideration and I'm guessing that in most cases we can lean towards Pol Pot rather than Fidel Castro. Behind every one of Blum's carefully quantified death tolls falls a shadow; the shadow of a vastly greater narrowly averted Communist death toll 

Doing a quick calculation based on "Rogue State" I can find no more than five million victims of "American terrorism". The soviets managed to kill ten million people in the Ukraine alone. That's twice as many victims in one single communist atrocity than occurred throughout the entire period of post-WWII American hegemony. Mao Tse Tung killed sixty million people without even going to war. For a more up to date example, let's consider the Marxist president of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe. Since his ascent to power Mugabe has presided over an economic collapse spectacular even by African standards. This has mainly been caused by his racist assault on his nation's White minority and attempted genocide of his rival tribe. The Communist miracle has transformed Zimbabwe from a peaceful and prosperous nation into a country of rape camps and drains blocked by murdered infants and aborted foetuses. Still, he really stuck it to Whitey, so I suppose in Blum's eyes that makes the misery of millions of Black Zimbabweans acceptable. 

Did I mention Fidel Castro? Blum claims that America's hostility to Cuba was based on the fact that, "Cuba had carried out The Unforgivable Revolution, a very serious threat of setting a "good example in Latin America". So it had nothing to do with Cuba's collaboration with a hostile enemy power and its willingness to be used as an offshore nuclear missile base then?  According to Blum, "The saddest part of this is that the world will never know what kind of society Cuba could have produced if left alone, if not constantly under the gun and the threat of invasion, if allowed to relax its control at home. The idealism, the vision, the talent were all there. But we'll never know". Yes indeed! We'll never know. I'd suggest that Blum uses some of the royalties from his book to take a vacation in North Korea. A short period of starvation might stimulate his imagination. Blum might even want to consider how Cuba might have turned out if its threadbare economy hadn't been propped up by Russia and China for half a century.

Post WWII America was confronted by a superpower whose sworn objective was America's destruction. To achieve this end the Communists fomented and funded revolutionary coups throughout the world. To suppress Communism the US sometimes supported people who did very bad things. Blum doesn't care to expound upon the equally bad thing done by their opponents. Call me old fashioned but I call that bias. Blum is also wrong in his allegation that the US is solely responsible for the atrocities committed in places like Nicaragua. Yes, America did train Para-military forces but, unless Blum can show me the manuals, I refuse to believe that it trained them to rape and torture civilians. Skinning civilian faces was something that the natives invented all by themselves. It seems that because the Communists ultimately failed they are also absolved, in Blum's mind, of all guilt. If the Communists had succeeded in their forced conversion of Africa and Latin America it is possible, perhaps even probable, that the end of the last century may have witnessed the collapse of Capitalism and not of Communism. Some persistent left-liberals will argue that this would have been a good thing. None of these liberals choose to live in one of the worlds remaining Communist states. Now isn't that funny?
