It is funny reading the five-star reviewers. They have the least amount of knowledge in the field of classics, and yet they can make claims like the "Greeks learned everything in the science from the Egyptians who had mastered all of science first". Really? As I classics major myself who studied both the Greek as well as the Near Eastern histories I can assert that Greece absorbed very little from Egypt; and moreover, Greeks via the Hellenistic Empire of Alexander influenced Egypt far more. Bernal claims that the period of Egyptian involvment in Greece was during the proto-greek stage of the Myceneans, and the dark age that soon followed, which by the way is the most inconclusive period in Greek history. Yet, Bernal, a "scholar" not even trained in the Classics, can claim that this is obviosly because of western ignorance and rascism, that chooses to hide this shameful history. He claims that the Hyskos were a semitic people that invaded the Aegean region in time lending the Greeks their culture etc. First, the Hyskos where a minor group who are only mentioned in respect to Israelite history as they both are said to have entered Egypt at the same time. Bernal leaves out the fact that Egypt and the entire Levant was invaded by "Sea People" who originated form Ionia and the Aegean Islands and were the remnant of the Mycenean Age Homer wrote about. These Sea People devestated Egypt and the Levant, and actually forged colonies. The Egyptians named them the Peleset, who later are known as the Philistines. However they are Myceneans. 
Further, Egypt was a theocracy with very little to offer the world in the sciences. The great breakthroughs came in the Classical and Hellenistic Age where Astronomy and Calculus flourished to name a few. Prior to this period the only other notable contributions came from the Babylonians in Mesopotamia.

Furthermore, SEMITIC PEOPLE ARE CAUCASIAN AS WELL.

Meaning Babylonians, Assyrians, Hebrews, Hyskos, Sumerians, and most likely Egyptians, a fact that can be seen in the present day inhabitants. While Arabic has been absorbed, this does not mean the aboriginal inhabitants have been erased. Furthermore, Bernal claims these eurocentric view is centered on a Greco-Roman model of western civilization; however western scholars are first to point out the contributions of other middle eastern peoples, like the the Mesopotamians, the Hittite, and the Persian. The latter two spoke indo-european by the way, in the midst of the so-called "black" semitic language he so readily attempts to usurp. In fact the word Arryan is the derived from the word Iran, as it literally mean the "land of the Arryans". Caucasians do not dwell soley in western Europe; in fact it might be better for these Afrocentric revisionists to expand their propaganda to calibrate for the entire Caucasian world which stretches into a Eurasian model going as far as the Russian steppes and Iranian peripheries. 
Furthemore, this idea of Egypt as black is derived on the  premise of non-european otherness, where because someone is not European it automatically means they are not white, and because they are not white that natuarally means they fall into the black camp. The whole train of though is ludicrous. 
