When the time came to read this year's Halloween book, I chose Halloween: From Pagan Ritual to Party Night by Nicholas Rogers. I was looking for an interesting, scholarly treatment of the holiday. I didn't find it.

That's not to say that I didn't learn anything. According to Rogers, Halloween, as it is celebrated in the United States and Canada, was basically brought to the New World by Scottish and Irish immigrants. In those countries, Halloween apparently grew out of Pagan autumn festivals and the Christian holidays of All Saints and All Souls days. The Day of the Dead had a similar origin in Mexico. What began in the US and Canada as a celebration of Celtic pride evolved into a night of teen and adult rowdiness, which was in turn tamed into "trick-or-treating." In the last few decades, the commercial engines have behaved like a positive-feedback loop: Because Halloween is popular, there is money to be made, so it needs to be hyped and marketed to make it more popular, so more money can be made, and so on.

See? That didn't take 170 pages. The remaining space is occupied by the author supporting his conclusions with data and argumentation. The data generally amounts to lists of single sentence anecdotes gleaned from various Canadian and American newspaper editions published in late October and early November over a wide range of years. There are also a number of illustrations, including festive holiday snapshots taken by the author. The author's argumentation is based on induction from these published data points -- as well as stories from his colleagues and dentist -- to explain their significance as only an academic could. For example, this gem is put forth as part of the discussion of the relevance of the Halloween movies by John Carpenter to the actual holiday (p. 121):

"For it could be argued that Myer's murderous interventions are facilitated by the collapse of Halloween as an inclusive family holiday and its transformation into a set of generational consumer rites in which family mutualities are neglected."

What?! The plots of the six Halloween "films" are discussed and their commentary on the holiday is "explored." It is hard to take this kind of scholarship seriously when it takes slasher-flix so seriously
