I am an experienced knitter. I own many knitting how to books. I have made knitted things I actually wear and enjoy.

This book is comprehensive alright, but I think it would absolutely snow under most beginners. 

It is reminiscent of Military Specification Manual writing style with a chapter numbering system that sends you to figures 1.29, 2.301. And it shares a lot with old computer manuals in how generous it is in telling you all the things you can do in general definitions and not telling you how you do them in steps.
If you already know how to do something, this is great.

I wanted to design a chevron stitch sweater. So I went to this book for various chevrons. The index gives you dozens of reference pages for chevron stitch, and page 124 is in boldface to indicate this is the main reference. This is what I read on page 124 in disbelief:
Quote:

Two diagonal fabrics side by side moving in opposite directions. Figures 2.172 and 2.173 show row directions and shaping on a square. Work progress is at right angles to row direction--horizontal stripes emphasize the effect, while vertical lines will appear perpendicular to the rows. Experiment freely with overall shape, away from squares and rectangles. (pp 100,251)
End Quote

Page 100 has a photo of a project where it is hard to tell what is a chevron stitch even if you know what it looks like. Page 251 is another photo of a knit top by the author illustrating a drop stitch boat neck top. I did not see any chevrons on that page, there is an inset of the model's huge wire wrap earring!

If you read the quote above, you might think you are reading a comprehensive English dictionary rather than a knitting how-to book. A definition of the chevron stitch and its parameters, and the direction of color changes in this stitch in a few words is very erudite. And LESS THAN USELESS to a knitter.

The approach to most decorative or different stitches is pretty similar to the chevron treatment. I know this is not a stitch dictionary, but its level of obtuseness to common stitches (like a chevron!) is amazing.

It is good for the many descriptions of casting on, holding needles, (shows even the Peruvian/Greek/Macedonian hold) working short rows, yarn overs, grafting and joins.

If you are an experienced knitter, you can learn some things from this book.

If you are a rank beginner, this is definitely not the book for you. 

Total beginners should check out "I Can't Belive I'm Knitting" from Leisure Arts. That has just enough detail and nice drawings to get you started making a few things without scaring you
