This is not a well-rounded story centered on plot or adventure. This is a rambling rampage through meaningless and disconnected events, thoughts, and shady characters. 

Anne introduces dozens of separate situations and characters and constructs a weak web around them. When the excitement in these mini-plots is building up, she completely ruins the story by Marius, the main character's, foolish immature whining and utter desolation of mind. Anne could have done so much with this story if she simply picked a plot line and followed through with it! 
Whenever something interesting is about to happen, Marius begins to weep or have second thoughts, or he simply runs away and hides from the world. Terrible, really. 
Marius's constant whining and heartache over Pandora, a former love of his, is not particularly believable. I find it silly how Marius, a godly and erudite vampire and former Roman Patrician, is incapable of getting over a lost love. Come on, what kind of fortitude and dignity is that when you can't forget about some woman you haven't seen or heard from in over a THOUSAND years? If Anne Rice would have been able to depict the romance between Pandora and Marius as though they were meant to be, as though they were absolute soulmates, then MAYBE Marius's annoying whining would have been tolerable. However, Anne Rice did the exact opposite. She didn't show love, she told love, and she did it very badly and once more played the 'ol "the world is pointless, I want to die" card. 

Another thing that bothers me about this story is that there are no true antagonists, unless you count Marius's Jekyll and Hyde personality. Roger Ebert said of films that they are only as good as their own villain. I feel this is true of most contemporary fictions as well.

Anne Rice also awkwardly inserts personal obsessions (such as Botticelli) into the storyline; these additions add absolutely nothing to the story, and rather than making it more colorful or realistic or intense or ANYTHING positive, the story is diminished and becomes silly and tedious.

I rate Blood and Gold one star because it was poorly written and Anne Rice's fondess for the "breaking the fourth wall" literary technique irritated me to no end. Indeed, I must say that this was the worst book I have read in recent memory. I'm sorry for those who enjoyed it; I don't intend to offend, but I DO intend to write a review that mirrors my attitude towards this book correctly
