&quot;Well-behaved women rarely make history,&quot; a quote by Laural Thatcher Ulrich, American Historian, are the first words of this book.  That may very well be, but I don't think we have to try so hard to show children just how shocking some of our famous women were!  Lives of Extraordinary Women is a compilation of twenty short biographies of important women in the world's history: such well-known names as Joan of Arc, Marie Antoinette, and Harriet Tubman, as well as lesser-known individuals such as Nzingha, Gertrude Bell, and Aung San Suu Kyi.  Although it looks like biographies, there is really little intellectual value to the book.  It is merely a hodgepodge of trivia and unrelated gossip.    The first chapter is called &quot;Cleopatra: Life at the Library.&quot;  Now, you would think that this would explore her love of reading and dertmination to build a world-famous library in Alexandria.  Instead, it is all about her numerous love-affairs, particularly the one with herself, experimenting with hairstyles, make-up, and perfume.  The author tells us, &quot;...she coped with the required marriage to her ten year-old brother.  He turned up drowned, and another one was poisoned.&quot;    There is a chapter on Nzingha - a West African queen.  Some important aspects of her life we just must know are: &quot;Rumor had her also murdering her nephew - and eating his heart,&quot; and &quot;...she kept fifty young men as bodyguards...she made her favorites wear women's clothes.&quot;    It gets even better!  We simply can't live without knowing that Catherine the Great's husband, Peter, &quot;heaped abuse on her, tortured their dogs...and brought his toy soldiers to bed, forcing her to participate in mock military maneuvers.&quot;    If the purpose of this book is to sensationalize the names of women in history, then it has met it's mark.  I'm not against books that attempt to amuse kids with humorous or unbelievable-but-true anecdotes.  I think the problem with this, however, is that today's educators are grabbing quickly for resources about women.  After ceturies of learning about history through the eyes of men, society is realizing that a big piece has been missing.  As educators, we are making a conscious effort to locate and use resources about women in history.  Because of this book's striking cover, catchy title, boldly illustrated caricatures, and interesting table of contents, we might be fooled into thinking this is a good book for our classrooms.  A careful reading of the pages will tell you a different story.    In the introduction, the author says, &quot;Here are twenty women who wielded significant political power.  Each of these extraordinary women triumphed over attitudes and conditions that couldn't have been more adverse.&quot;  These statements make us think that they are women to look up to.  And, although she also says, &quot;Not all of these women are role models,&quot; in the next sentence she says, &quot;Their stories are offered here to inspire awe at the power of women throughout history - and ever after.&quot;  If these behaviors are the best we have to inspire awe at the power of women, our role in history is doomed for another twenty centuries!  A fun book of trivia, perhaps.  A book to enlighten and impart knowledge, I guess not
