Note: This review reveals plot points.  This shouldn't matter too much since my advice to you is - don't read this novel.

Okay, I realize that this is a `beach novel' and that it isn't meant to be particularly insightful, realistic, or memorable - but come' on, even beach novels should meet some kind of standard.  

Short Straw is just plain dumb.

It wouldn't be so bad if the characters in the novel were supposed to be stupid (I'm a big fan of novels featuring dumb criminals) but much is made about how smart these characters are; despite all the evidence to the contrary.

Case in point:  The Santa Fe police department arrest a man for murdering his wife and her lover and the DA is ready to go to trial on the case, but no one thought it was necessary to interrogate the alleged killer and to check out his alleged alibi.  

Are we supposed to believe that the Santa Fe police department is that inept?  I could be wrong here but I think the police would interrogate the man repeatedly for hours, grilling him about his movements that day and following up on any inconsistencies in his story.  They would sort through his phone bills, business records, and computer files, and interview his friends, neighbours, and associates.  It's ridiculous to think that in a case like this the DA wouldn't even know where the defendant was on the day of the murder.

But that's only one example in a long list of grievances.  For example....

1.	Why does Big Bear tell Ed that he left the worksite to buy an auto part (effectively putting hole in his alibi)?  He doesn't object to lying to Ed about his innocence, so why tell the truth on this point, especially when he has to know it will affect his alibi.  Why doesn't Ed (who is a brilliant legal mind) realize until later the significance of this fact?  Answer:  The author wants Ed to get Big Bear off, but then have an epiphany later when he remembers what Big Bear said about the auto part store.  It will be in this moment that Ed realizes, for the first time, that his client is guilty after all.

2.	Why doesn't the DA make any effort to  effectively cross examine the sole alibi witness in the case?  Surely the witness couldn't have been watching Big Bear all the time (didn't he have to go to the bathroom or make a sandwich or something?)  Answer:  The author wants Ed to get Big Bear off and then have an epiphany later, realizing that his client was actually guilty (see point 1).  If the DA did his job and actually cross examined the witness, this might not happen.

3.	Why does Barbara steal Ed's money AND try to have him killed?  If she was going to have him killed, it would have made a lot more sense for her not to go running off with his money, casting suspicion on herself.  Answer:  If Barbara had Ed killed she would inherit his fortune, get the life insurance money, and the novel would end on page 3.

4.	If Barbara is so smart, why does she use the PI's cell phone to call the spa where she plans to hide out, when the call can obviously be traced?  For that matter, why does she use her own name at all the hotels she booked in Mexico?  Answer:  The author needs the PI's to keep finding her so that she can keep giving them the slip.  Much of the novel is spent having Barbara escape and hide somewhere (but not very well).  The PI's then find her, only to have her slip through their fingers again and again.   

5.	Why does Barbara change her appearance?  It would have made more sense for her to have plastic surgery at the beginning of the novel.   Once her plan to steal Ed's money falls apart, she returns to the States, waiting for an opportunity to kill Ed or have him killed, so she can claim the insurance money.  There's no need for her to change her appearance until it is time to disappear.  There is no point in disappearing until she has the money (or if she has reason to believe the police will arrest her - which she doesn't).  If Ed is murdered and she gets away with it (presumably that's the plan), there is no need to disappear at all.   Answer:  The author has planned a scene later in the novel where Ed enters a bar and doesn't recognize his own wife, but she sees him.  In order for this scene to work, Barbara can't look the same can she?

6.	If Barbara is so smart, why does she keep the gun she used to kill the couple in the hotel?  Answer:  It's the only evidence that can tie her to the crime.  If she gets rid of it, Barbara will get away with murder.  We can't have that now, can we?

7.	For the love of God, what did Ed see in this woman in the first place?  He says that he loved her but there is no evidence of that (he doesn't seem heart broken) and given that he is supposed to be a reasonably intelligent man; couldn't he tell that she was a cold blooded self absorbed sociopath?    Answer:  I think the author was just too lazy to delve into any emotional issues or provide any insight into their relationship.

The bottom line is; this could have been a decent novel if Woods had put some effort into it.  If he asked himself these types of questions while he was writing the manuscript (and trust me - there are more) he could have come up with a stronger plot that made sense.  

I realize I have been ranting (this is a long review) but for whatever reason, this novel really frustrated me.  Mostly because I know Woods could have made it a good novel if he wanted to.  He just couldn't be bothered.
