Porter's analysis of the health care system and its problems is right on yet his solutions could not be farther from the direction that the health care system must move to become a real system that serves all Americans.  There are so many flaws in the logic of the book and it is so impractical in its recommendations that I am not concerned that anyone will see it as a route to solving the ills of the US healthcare system.  Here are some of the main flaws.
1) Most people have very limited choice of providers - specifically the uninsured, people in rural areas, people in managed care plans, people whose employers offer only a limited selection of plans/doctors/hospital.  In order for "results" to drive increases in market share - one of Porter's main theses, people have to be able to choose where they will go for care.  
2) Competition related to outcomes will slow down progress in medical care dramatically.  Hospitals and doctors, rather than rushing to share their newly discovered procedures with others - or share "best practices" for improving surgical outcomes will be incentivized to keep this "results" producing findings to themselves so they can publish better outcome statistics and attract more business. Is this what we want?  Don't we want physicians and institutions to openly share best practices to help everyone achieve better outcomes?
3) Porter believes that people should get care from the "best" specialists - even if this means travelling to another city or state for that care.  Ridiculous!  Once again this will increase the disparities in health outcomes between the rich and poor, the insured and the uninsured, people who have lots of medical knowledge and those who have little medical knowledge.  People better equipped, educationally or financially or through insurance coverage may travel to places to get better outcomes while the others get inferior care.  Is that what we want from our new health care system?

Porter's logic is seriously flawed.  It is the result of a profit-oriented mind trying to create solutions for a system that cannot be driven by profit but one which must be driven by concern for all Americans - a desire to achieve excellence wherever people go for care - and a need to raise the level of performance of all doctors and all health care institutions. Porter's solutions create an elitist model where care will improve for a very small number of people at the expense of the general population.  It is a non-solution to a complex problem.

If any proof is needed concerning how wrong Porter's model can be one must look at the data concerning the degree to which the poor and the uninsured go to hospitals doing low volumes of procedures and therefore, by implication, have worse outcomes.  These are the very places where the uninsured, people of color and others of limited means get a majority of their care in urban areas.  Just ask how Porter's solutions purport to help these underresourced institutions "compete" and as they loose resources to others, how they will maintain and improve the standard of services they now provide.  

If you read this book, think about these issues and ask yourself if these are real solutions that serve all Americans.  I think you'll see what I mean
