So, after 86 years, the Red Sox finally break through.  And, for this special, long-awaited moment, does the once-august Boston Globe take the time to lovingly, painstakingly put together a keepsake for its maniacly devoted fans?  No.  Instead it puts out a complete and utter piece of dreck.  Someone at the Globe or publisher Triumph Books - perhaps the entire team charged with assembling this gaffe - ought to be fired.  Shame on you.  

This book simply was not edited, fact-checked, reviewed, verified or even given the simplest 'once over.' Even a quick read-through should have caused even the most junior editor at the Globe/Triumph to ask that the presses be stopped. 

Reviewer Arthur Weeks has compiled a great list and it gives you an idea of just how egregious these errors are - missing box scores, earned runs in shutouts, St. Louis scoring four runs in the ninth inning of a game they lost 6 - 2.  You can't make this stuff up.

Here's a couple of more:

- On pages 26 - 27, two pictures claim to show Larry Walker (p. 26) and Jeff Suppan (p. 27) making baserunning blunders.  In fact, both pictures are of Walker - different angles, but it's clearly Number 33 in both shots (and Suppan was wearing a warm-up jacket as I recall).

- On page 86, they bollix up the name of the very guy who coined the term 'Curse of the Bambino': the Globe's own Dan Shaughnessy, who here becomes Dan Shaugnessy.

Furthermore, the box scores are of the variety that appeared in your small, local paper circa 1969.  They've got about 25% of the content of a box score that appears today in USA Today and most other corners of the statistics-crazed world of baseball.  These box scores offer the reader next to no insight on the game.

One other metric to give you an idea of how thin the gruel is: the marketing blurb provided on these pages (no doubt provided by Triumph) says the book is filled with 'hundreds of color photos.'  The book, in fact, has exactly 79 photos. And I'm being lenient here by including the front and back cover images and one page that contains six 1.75" x 3" photo head shots of various players.  

In short: pathetic. 

It's a crying shame.  I urge all Red Sox fans to avoid this book.  

I want my money back.
