John Dunning wrote a couple of my favorite quiet mysteries with the first books in this series. If he had left it as a trilogy, I think that these books would have gone down as classics of their era. However, Dunning has persisted in turning this into a series that just has no legs what-so-ever. I have noticed while reading all of Dunnings work that Characters are not one of his strong points. Dunning tells a great story, and has the ability to incorporate an archetype that he has used in every one of his novels. The archetype is not a bad one, and it suffices to push along what is usually a pretty darn good yarn. The reason I am pointing this opinion of mine out is that for the first time ever, I have noticed a devolution of a character in the hands of an author. From the first book in this series, to Bookwomans Fling, Janeway has lost a lot of his allure. I dont think that we been given any insights at all into the make-up of this man, and because of that this book suffers.

You might disagree with me in what I just said, however I urge you to go back and flip through "Booked to Die", notice the depth of character beyond what you might have pulled in if you have watched many Noir flicks or the 50's or read books such as Maltese Falcon. Theirs not much to Janeway. But its ok in that book because the story is so original. Now look at Bookwomans Last Fling and you have exactly the same character. Janeway has not grown, and Dunning has not given us anything to feed upon. 

Lastly, I think that the point I am trying to make here is best observed when you take a look at Dunnings female characters. Every single one of them is as thin as a gust of wind. They are all pretty much the same. Compare Janeways growth over these books and then look at Matt Scudder who appears in some of Lawrence Blocks books. Night and Day. 

The reason I am so engrossed with the unconcern Dunning has over the development of Janeway is that his stories feel more and more boxed in as time goes on. How many stories about old collectible books can you write. Heck I love to collect first editions myself, but I dont want to read Dunnings attempts to tie a clever series into them anymore. 

I sort of think of Dunnings Janeway series as being a little like Dick Francis' racetrack books. Francis constantly has the same theme and same character from one book to the next. He has the same problem as Dunning. Only Francis has found a way around this by putting that character into a different form with every book. Each time he turns him into a stock-broker or a detective, or something and then the reader has the joy of watching a good story unfold while learning a bit of the characters new back story. 

This book felt forced through-out. I would like to read something more like "booked to die" again from Dunning. I want the great story that starts in one place and ends somewhere totally unexpected. I dont want to read the story told here that is as stale as can be. Enough Dunning. Your a gifted story teller. Start telling stories again
