I found this book to be totally biased. Even before DNA the case that Anna Anderson was Anastasia was extremely weak. In the Dalldorf Asylum Baroness Sophie Buxhoeveden said that she was neither Tatiana nor Anastasia. This is a big clue. She never said she was Anastasia. The idea that she was a member of the Imperial Family was placed in her head by a fellow patient at Dalldorf, Clara Peuthert.

Anderson met her Aunt Princess Irene of Prussia under an assumed name. Neither recognized the other. Also Grand Duchess Olga did not recognize Anderson. Olga Alexandrovna would never be so callous as to reject her niece. Pierre Gilliard also said that she could not be Anastasia. Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone once shared a bath with Anastasia and said that the claimant wasn't Anastasia.

Anderson disappeared on 12 August 1922 and reappeared on 15 August 1922. These were the same days on which Franziska Schanzkowska reappeared. 

Anastasia knew four languages: Russian, English, French and German. Anna Anderson only knew one: German. She never could speak Russian.

The Author resorts to slander to criticize the claimant's opponents. Lovell claims that a prostitute identified Anna Anderson as Schanzkowska. Where is the proof? Who was the prostitute? No other books refer to a prostitute. Slanderous statements such as this do not belong in print.

The suggestion that Nicholas and Alexandra had a fifth daughter is beneath contempt. This claim destroys Lowell's credibility for good. This claim is an affront to the memory of the Russian Royal family. Not even the most naïve, desperate or gullible conspiracy theorist could fall for this.  

The author seems to record everything uttered by Anna Anderson Manahan during her years of senility no matter how outlandish or farfetched.

Substantial sections of the book bear little relation to reality, for example the King Kong rape story. Whilst watching a showing of the King Kong, Manahan leaves the theatre and then confides in Lovell that the entire family except Alexei were raped in front of each other.  The King Kong story is extemely disturbing and despicable, and shows how gullible the author is. It is obvious that Anna Anderson Manahan herself sees how devoted Lovell is towards her and is deliberately making up stories for him.

The author also misidentifies a photo that is really that of Anastasia's sister Marie's ear not Anastasia's ear. 

Lovell mocks the claimant's opponents and believes every single word of Anna's. There was nothing regal at all about Anderson's mannerisms or behaviour. There is no balance in this book. 

