Shermer's book is an attempt to classify various lines of research into science, nonscience, and `borderlands' science, but he follows no rigorous methodology.  Instead, he subjectively classifies various theories, practices, and lines of research into his three categories, based upon how popular certain theories are among mainstream scientists, and how much the theories, practices, and lines of research appeal to his narrow scientific fundamentalism.
 
There really is no need for this book.  The celebrated philosopher Karl Popper brilliantly solved the problem of the demarcation between science, and philosophy, ideology and nonsense decades ago, and his work has been endorsed by scientists from Einstein to Hawkings. The criterion is testability.  Scientific theories are theories that are capable of being tested by experiment or observation. Our theories can never be proven correct, although a single counter-instance can prove them wrong.  

One can sum up Popper's famous demarcation between science and non-science by saying that the criterion of the scientific status of a theory is its falsifiability.   Accordingly, theories that are not falsifiable in principle cannot claim to be scientific, and so belong to metaphysics, ideology, or pseudo-science.
 
Popper's criterion of testability provides a clear, logical way of separating science from ideology and philosophy.  Hence, string theory is not science but philosophy, as it currently makes no predictions capable of being tested.  Popper argued that Marxism started out as a scientific theory: it predicted that capitalism would lead to increasing misery among the masses, and then be overthrown by revolution and replaced by socialism; it also predicted that this would occur first in the most technically developed countries.  When the so-called worker's revolution first occurred in then-backward and agrarian Russia, supporters of the theory did not accept this as a refutation: the theory was simply modified so that it became immune to falsification.  In other words, Marxism was transformed into an ideology.

The universal property of scientific theories cannot be stressed enough.  A scientific theory cannot be merely speculation about a particular fact or an isolated event, because nothing new and non-trivial can be predicted from such a speculation.  This point has to be stressed, because it has caused a great deal of confusion among philosophers and historians of science.  For example, Shermer writes in the book: 

"Popper's attempt to solve the problem of demarcation ... between science and nonscience begins to break down in the borderlands of knowledge.  Consider the theory that extraterrestrial intelligent life exists somewhere in the cosmos.  If we find out by making radio contact through the SETI program then the theory will have been proven absolutely ... But how could this theory ever be falsified?"  

Shermer's mistake is his categorization of the statement `extraterrestrial intelligent life exists somewhere in the cosmos' as a scientific theory.  It is no such thing.  It is merely speculation about a specific fact, from which no non-trivial predictions follow.  (For instance, it does not follow from this that such life would want to contact us, would share our values, would be friendly toward us, and so forth.)  It is no more a scientific theory than the statement `there are white swans somewhere on the lake.'  Such statements about specific factual matters can indeed be confirmed, even proven `beyond all reasonable doubt.'  But this is only because they are not universal statements.  Scientific theories are universal statements about how facts fit together, and from such universal statements follow predictions about specific facts.  So, from the universal statement `all swans are white' follows the prediction that `the next swans we will see on the lake will be white.'  The former is a (simple) scientific theory; the latter a prediction about a specific fact that follows from the theory, and that may used to test the theory.

Note that Shermer would have formulated his idea as a scientific theory if he had stated it in a universal, testable form, such as: "life arises quickly wherever there is water and an average temperature above freezing, and given a few billion years, some of this life will become recognizably intelligent."  This is a universal statement that relates specific facts to each other, can be used to make predictions about how much intelligent life exists elsewhere in our galaxy, and can be tested (at least in principle) by sending probes to planets in which conditions for life appear to have been appropriate for a few billion years.  If intelligent life is not found, then the theory is refuted, and must either be abandoned or modified.

It is precisely at the "borderlands of science" that Popper's criterion works so well.  Parapsychology for instance, most certainly is a science to the extent that it makes predictions capable of being tested.  But Shermer gives little attention to this field, as it conflicts with his ideology of materialism.

Shermer is not a scientist, but an historian.  And as an historian he has no excuse for being woefully ignorant of the history of science.  At one time reports that rocks sometimes fall from the sky (what we know call meteorites) were dismissed by most scientists as superstitious fantasies.  The idea that the continents could drift was ridiculed for decades.  Even X-rays were considered an elaborate hoax.  Those who ignore the lessons of history are doomed to repeat them, and Shermer has simply not learned that popularity of ideas cannot be used as a guide to separate science from nonsense.  

But Shermer is an intellectual lightweight who is simply out of his league when discussing the philosophy of science.  If you want to read something really magnificent on the subject, I recommend "Replies to my Critics", in The Philosophy of Karl Popper, Part II, edited by Paul Arthur Schilpp.   
