Reading "Schoolgirls" feels at times much like reading the diary of a woman who harbors bitter resentment toward men in general and takes every opportunity for pot-shots staining their reputations. I was shocked and, at times, appalled by the way Orenstein could easily criticize the behaviors of young boys, teachers, parents and even the girls she wrote in defense of. While these pages have insights to offer, they don't come from the author's stereotypical, biased statements and instead come from whatever she has offered to us in quotes (essentially the words of someone other than her). In reading this for my college course, we were asked to identify the main thesis of the book, and all looked to each other for help. Not one of 60-odd college students could identify Orenstein's main idea or point. While it seems she is trying to express that young girls have a low self-image due to the education system, that is contradicted many times over when we see some of the girls have low self-esteem because of their home life, and some girls have extremely high self-esteem. Perhaps her book would better be titled "Everyone is Different, No Two People Are the Same"?
But of course that title would not give way for the male-bashing this book includes in what comes in a sexist light. On page 16 when a student named Dawn is reprimanded for being disruptive but a boy in the class is given the same warning - only his comes with a smile, Orenstein writes "There is a tacit acceptance of a disruptive boy, because boys are disruptive. Girls are too, sometimes, as Dawn illustrates, but with different consequences." We find many more examples like this of Orenstein stating her opinions and blanket statements without giving us as readers the chance to form our own opinion. What if the boy had a learning disability that caused him to act out? What if for him that was typical behavior while 'Dawn' had been quiet in the past and recently started showing rebellion? What if maybe teachers are human beings too, and make mistakes? I know that sounds impossible, but it's true!
This is only one example of many that I found in this book that were slightly disturbing to me. It is unfortunate that Orenstein peppered her accounts with her personal views because all of these young girls' stories are powerful and moving. However as important those stories are, they are laid out in such a fashion that (again) it is hard to see any clear message through their telling. As an educator I only find the third section of this book ("Through the Looking Glass") to be of any use in how to teach history with equality in mind. In order to get through the first two sections, one only has to ignore Orenstein and strive to see what is truly taking place beyond her journalistic liberties
