This book certainly LOOKED fascinating. It was touted to me as a literary and wonderfully researched thriller focusing upon Vlad Tepes, and as such, I was expecting to enjoy it immensely.

But between five and ten pages in, I realised that reading it was going to be a chore, not a pleasure.

This was NOT because of the mediaeval history included in the book. (I found that one thing Ms Kostova did well was to weave her "history" in with the story.) It WAS, however, at least partly due to the fact that the much-vaunted historical research is... well, let's put it kindly. It's nonsense. Ms Kostova does not seem to realise how real historians work, and she strains credulity at one convenient "discovery" after another. She is utterly incorrect in details that can really annoy, such as saying "dialect of Church Slavonic" when any BASIC historian into this field knows Church Slavonic did not branch into various written dialects. Not only that, but the nonsensical inclusion of a "lost" Shakespearean play supposedly set in a Muslim city - please!

It's worth pointing out that Ms Kostova appears not to realise that the term "vampire" was NEVER applied to a nobleman, was not CURRENT as possibility among nobles, during the period in which Vlad Tepes flourished. Had it been, believe me, his enemies would have accused him of it - he certainly was accused of whatever his enemies could throw at him. The word "vampire" was not used in Greek theatre, although Ms Kostova states that it was. In fact, the word and concept of vampire (not Upir as a proper name) have as their earliest attestation a folk reference in the 15th century - in what's now Yugoslavia (the South Slavic area). The FIRST TIME that the peasant superstition EVER is turned around to refer to nobles is long, long, long after the time of Vlad Tepes. It is in fact a distinctly discernable process occurring in the Romantic period - Germany's Enlightenment in which writers like Goethe were creating erudite and genuinely chilling tales about this newly-"discovered" monster of legend. From there, it did not take long before the English got into the act and the first full-length works were written - both trash and treasure in quality.

So the mere IDEA of suspecting a nobleman to be a vampire is specifically 19th century, not mediaeval.

It seems that Ms Kostova didn't do her vampire research very thoroughly. There's a huge amount of truly fascinating material there waiting to be treated in a novel, but "The Historian" is not that novel.

And in terms of writing... Ms Kostova's style does not take wing. She writes about some gorgeous places in the world, and some fascinating events, but the details often annoy by being wrong, and the gorgeous places are not vividly drawn in front of our eyes. What I mean is this: a great writer does not say, "I was breathless and taken aback. It was magnificent. It was beautiful", and so on. Rather, he/she convinces us by our visualisation that the place is one of dizzying grandeur, astonishing beauty, etc. Don't tell us; show us - that is good advice to keep in mind.

The characters are so unclearly delineated that they all seemed to meld into one. When reading the so-called letters of John, the girl's father, his vocabulary, style, ways of thinking, etc., are all exactly the same as the writing of the girl, and the writing of Rossi. 

The character of Dracula himself is the biggest disappointment. To learn that his secret great plan is (yes, believe it) to get hold of scholars so that he can make them his librarians because he wants his library catalogued... well, it's frankly ludicrous.

And what a fizzled-out finale. We never see Dracula's power - he is never frightening. In fact, chills and thrills were virtually entirely absent from this novel, whereas Bram Stoker's Dracula is genuinely psychologicalliy terrifying.

THIS Dracula is killed because he's distracted by someone else? He's killed by a quick shot from a gun with a silver bullet? Oh dear. Originality is not the hallmark here, nor is nail-biting tension.

The epistolary device does not work well here - there's simply no NEED for letters. The notion of letters doesn't even make sense, but Ms Kostova clearly used the device because she intended to draw out the story and use the end of a letter as an excuse to break off the story at one point, presumably to make the reader salivate for more. (Clearly she modelled the device upon its use in Stoker's novel - but there the device made literary and plot sense. Here... it doesn't.)

This novel, then, failed to captivate me. I finished it in a mood of grim resignation, determined to base my increasing uninterest in it upon a full knowledge of it, rather than to stop half-way. The style of writing is a little too prosaic to really merit being called "literary". The thrills that should have been there... weren't. The denouement was frankly silly. The characters did not leap off the page into my mind's eye. And the research was wrong in so many details that I cannot even begin to describe it. And this was annoying because those wrong details did not impact on the STORY - they could have been written with CORRECT information without negatively impacting on the novel. They were wrong, then, because Ms Kostova made assumptions and did not do the research she is vaunted to have done.

In short - disappointing
