I can only give you my perspective.

To me, this book's sole chance to claim some value would be if it were able to serve as a "cautionary tale," or self-help parable, to be read and acted upon by the type of people described therein. What type of people are these, you ask? They are a hetero couple: American, white, middle-aged, middle-class, suburban, bored, self-absorbed, superficial, incurious, calculating, and inept in the roles they find for themselves in their NYC-area suburban neighborhood (housekeeping, cooking, parenting, economical suburban husbandry, and so on). They are also habitual liars. 

Their twin personality poles--emptiness and selfishness--create a working space within which the author is able to make many dark jokes, some of which are funny. Yes, they represent in allegorical fashion the political, cultural, architectural and human emptiness and selfishness of the American suburbs.  Just as there is not enough there there in the suburbs, as human beings Elaine and Paul lack any sort of substantial personal core, or home. Their clumsy attempt to burn down their house at the open is the clumsy, overwrought symbol which informs the rest of the story.

To me "Music for Torching" has no literary value, zero--there is no poetry here. There is a kind of selective transcription and distillation of the thought and words of suburban family life, with omissions of gesture, tone of voice, etc. used to create a sense of loopy, malevolent derangement, and impending doom.  There are isolated photo-like bursts of sociological and psychological penetration, with clever formulations and associations, and surreal sitcom-like riffs. I'm not saying what A.M. Homes has done is easy to do--it's not. But then neither, say, is writing a critical anthropological study of privileged white people in Westchester. That would have been better.

Up to a point, Homes does a good job depicting the American demand for "authentic" experience. Unless they are--with each new moment--surprised, excited and delighted, reassured and loved, Elaine and Paul don't know what to do with themselves. Their inner mental monologues are a hash of confusion, insecurity, folly.

The author shouts via bullhorn, when the asthma inhaler comes out, that she (or Elaine and Paul) will be killing off one or both children. The tragic conclusion is probably the safest and least inspired moment of the book. But people like Paul and Elaine don't get their come-uppance by losing a child. Statistically such children are pampered, loved and maintained like no other children in human history.  Instead, American suburban selfishness and emptiness redound to boring things like: enormous national debt, destruction of wildlife habitat, sweatshops, bad air quality, rising cancer rates, festering racism, and horrible political leaders who decide to kill many people in other countries. That's where you will find the _actual_ end of this tragedy. 

More likely is that Sammy and Daniel grow up selfish and empty, go to school to learn to exploit something, and then, in the year 2050, find their world rocked when the exploitees bite them on the ass.

If you want your satirical portrayal of white suburban American childish greed and folly straight up, I'd recommend "The Depressed Person," by David Foster Wallace. If you want a story about the mistakes of parents echoing to the destruction of a child, take a look at David Foster Wallace's fully human "Incarnations of Burned Children," from _Oblivion_. Let the astounding ending of this one serve as antidote to A.M. Homes' tacked-on ending
