I had pretty high hopes for the book Changing Minds: The Art And Science of Changing Our Own And Other People's Minds by Howard Gardner.  It looked like it would be a good book for learning the art of, well, changing peoples minds.  Instead it was an academic journey that I found difficult to draw applications from...

Contents: The Contents of the Mind; The Forms of the Mind; The Power of Early Theories; Leading a Diverse Population; Leading an Institution - How to Deal with a Uniform Population; Changing Minds Indirectly - Through Scientific Discoveries, Scholarly Breakthroughs, and Artistic Creations; Mind Changing in a Formal Setting; Mind Changing Up Close; Changing One's Own Mind; Epilogue - The Future of Mind Changing; Appendix; Notes; Index; About the Author

Gardner puts forth his theories of mind change based on three factors...  four "entities" of mind change (stories, theories, concepts, and skills), six "arenas" of mind change (from nations down to one's own person), and seven "levers" of mind change (all words that start with "re", like reason, resources, and resonance).  He uses a number of examples from history to show how ideas and people were able to move others from one mindset to another.  On the surface, it sounded like an interesting premise that I could apply in my day-to-day activities.  And at times, the writing almost succeeded.  There'd be glimpses of the person behind the writing, almost as if there was a conversation going on.  Then there'd be a retreat to academic analysis and pacing that made it a chore to slog through.  His attitudes and preconceptions are also quite evident.  For example, he seems to hold Darwin and his theories in high regard, while denigrating "fundamentalist" Christianity.  Granted, this wasn't a book on keeping an open mind, but I didn't quite want to be labeled as ignorant if I don't happen to agree with him or hold the same views in life.

Someone who is heavily into academic theory or the study of the human mind might well find this interesting.  But if you're a busy professional looking for practical insights to work with, this is going to be a real stretch..
