Glenn Reynolds isn't known as the "Blogfather" for nothing. The Tennesee law professor was one of the first among the intelligentsia to see the potential of Web logs, or blogs, to change the media landscape. As a daily reader of Reynolds' Instapundit.com for 5 years, I am continually impressed with his analysis, breadth of interest, and good-naturedness. His posts are short, pithy and droll.

But judging from "An Army of Davids", those bloggy qualities that have made Reynolds an online force don't carry over well into the book world. Reynolds' conversational style serves him well on the Web, where his analytical one-liners and nuggets of insight perfectly suit today's scroll-and-scan online attention span.

"Army" is basically a collection of lengthy blog posts united by the theme that technology is increasingly empowering individuals socially, economically and politically -- for better and for worse. Reynolds makes this argument most effectively in the first half of the book, when the discussion focuses on blogging and media. The second half ventures into more fantastic territory by touching on biotech, nanotech and space travel, and it's here where the book transmogrifies more into futuristic musings about Reynolds' pet causes: a cure for ageing, homebrew molecular manufacturing, and nuclear powered spacecraft (that's bombs, not reactors). All fascinating stuff, but I'm still not sure how that fits on the same page as citizen journalism and home music studios.

That brings me to my main problem with "Army": in the end it's less a systematic study of the probable areas where technology enables average people to nudge society in new directions than it is a collection of stuff that Glenn Reynolds finds really cool and sort of crams under this broad umbrella of individual empowerment.

One specific complaint I have focuses on the chapter on space travel, titled: "Space: It's Not Just For Governments Anymore". Reynolds rightly points out the deep flaws in our NASA-oriented, top-down approach to space. He illustrates how entrepreneurs like Burt Ratan to Jeff Bezos and John Carmack will drive the next era of spaceflight, at costs that are a tiny fraction of the government's approach.

But in the next breath, Reynolds laments how we are in danger of losing the spacerace to China, which is pursuing exactly the big government, highly secretive, top-down approach that has led the U.S. to a cosmic dead-end. Not only that, Reynolds speculates the Chinese could beat us with the aforementioned nuclear bomb-powered spacecraft, an approach that was abandoned by the U.S. decades ago due to significant technological, environmental and diplomatic risks. China has made exactly two manned spaceflights, both using 1950s era technology copied from the Soviets. Their nuclear arsenal is limited to a few score of warheads. But suddenly they are going to find enough fissionable material to create the thousands of bombs needed to power such a spacecraft, and moreover manage to test prototypes in complete secrecy without triggering any suspicious seismographical readings? It just doesn't compute.

I also find it odd that "Army" was published as a traditional dead-tree book. You'd think that Reynolds' enthusiasm for cheap new technologies would lead him to offer it as a PDF download or even an e-book. Of course, online media is not a replacement for print media, any more than TV was a replacement for radio. And no one can begrudge a desire to see if it's possible to translate online success into a publishing one. But it would have been the ultimate validation of the very technologies Reynolds spends 270 pages endorsing
