This has to be one of the worst books about Christianity that I have ever read.  Strobel pretends that he is telling us the 'evidence' from a nonbiased persepective, but in reality everything is stacked against us from the get go.  

There are no other opinions other then Christian scholars throughout the book.  One chapter is named "Rebuttal Evidence" - but no, it's not what you're thinking.  What it is Strobel picking the 'Jesus Seminar' out of the headlines and then going to one of their opponents to talk about it!  I don't think so.  Was Strobel so scared that if he offered at least a tibit of outside view points that the Christian audience would be over challenged and scared off?  

Then we have the talks about which interviewed scholar debated which atheist and won.  One, so what?  Two, why are we not actually hearing from these men and women ourselves instead of through a third party?  It is a subtle trick to make the Christian argument look stronger, instead of just laying out both sides of the evidence and letting the reader actually decide.

Then there are Strobel's questions.  Oh, dear God! Here he is, with some of the most reknown Christian bible scholars and all he can think of is some soft, under-boiled questions that can be easily refuted by these acomplished men.  Strobel claims to be an atheist while he was conducting these interviews.  You never would have guessed it.  Agnostic desperately wanting a reason to be Christian is a more accurate description.

Stay away from this book if you have self respect.  There are plenty of books out there that address Strobel's material in a balanced and fair structure.  And by the way - one is never going to have evidence for God.  That's why it is called F-A-I-T-H!  If you sincerely need a book to hold your hand and cloud your eyes in order to believe in a creator type being - then by all means buy this book.  

Otherwise respect yourself and other humans and steer clear of Strobels material as an accurate representation of the arguments.  Whether Christian or not.
