Yes, All the King's Men is one of the 5 greatest American novels, for all the reasons people here cite, and more.

But this is not that novel.  It is a piece of junk unjustly cadged together with manuscript fragments that one of America's greatest writers never wrote in this form.  Despite decades to do so, in a life of over 90 years.  A very careful,writer, scholar, and teacher too.  This edition is a gratuitous insult to his memory and a dangerous precedent in American letters.  The public should not countenance it.  It doesn't matter if one paragraph or one sentence only is changed.  Indeed one single word can change a whole book, as the recent restoration of Ulysees has proven.  But that was justified because of:  (1) an copyist's error that persisted for decades; (2) poor Joyce was blind.  No such excuse exists here for putting in words that Robert Penn Warren cut out.  Any writer knows that cutting is as important as writing.  And certainly do not believe the ridiculous lie about the editor supposedly goofing with Warren's intention.  For one thing, that was a conversation with a live man, who agreed and thereafter forever let it stand.  And who certainly (several Pulitzers and every other literary award this country has to offer) eventually possessed the clout to "fix it" if he wanted to.  Truth be told, this lie can be used to alter just about any book published in the last 200 years -- and so much easier after you die.  For whatever reason they may like to.

For decades, the community of American literary scholars has painstakingly put together a set of rules to govern the correction of texts, and the publication of manuscripts posthumously -- always to reflect the last and best intention of the author based on the evidence.  For after death, this can be the only aim and only ethical endeavor.

In America today, everything is now subject to fakery.  Movies contain ads, even "news broadcasts" have product signs pasted in by computers.  Such is our brave new world, even more tawdry than Huxley envisioned. This edition of a classic is a blatant attempt to prostitute our very cultural heritage.  If they can do this to Penn Warren's masterpiece, they can do it to anybody.  That is the book industry's message.  That, plus a shameless attempt to pitch something "new" to go with the movie.

It is especially ironic and doubly disgusting that this has been done to a book which has, as a major theme, vulger hucksterism and its dubious wages.  The word left out of Ulysees, by the way, was "love."  The word invisibly yet indelibly seeped into this bogus imposture, on every page, is "garbage."

Just say no
