I have been studying astrology for twenty years and practicing it for a few.  I bought this book based on the glowing recommendations here on Amazon.  I wish I had not.

The premise of the book is sound.  It is that, unless something is promised in the natal chart, then it will not manifest in the life of a client.  But the author almost immediately contradicts herself.  On page 42 she says: "We are not stuck with the natal promise of our chart.  There is always the potential to outgrow the more difficult aspects."  WHAT?  Does the natal promise matter or does it not?  Please make up your mind!

From there it just gets worse and worse.  The chapter called "The Natal Promise" is laughable and exemplary of the rest of this book.  The author reduces everything to childish, ridiculous generalizations.  For example, the entire section on "Success" is about the Nodes.  Apparently, at least if you follow her advice, you have no chance of success unless your North Node is in an angular house (1, 4, 7 or 10).  In the section "Violence/Rape," all she discusses are hard aspects between the Moon and Pluto.  Try telling my friend who was savagely raped and beaten that she must have imagined it happening to her since she has no aspect in her chart between the Moon and Pluto.  

Not only is this book shoddily written and edited, as another reviewer mentioned, but there are some GLARING errors.  In the section on "Vocation," page 68, she claims that "Jackie Kennedy had her tenth-house Neptune in Scorpio, and she was a book editor."  Well, Neptune did not even enter Scorpio until 1956 so unless Jackie O. was about seven years old when JFK was shot, then this is completely impossible.

Finally, a large bulk of this book, maybe a third of it, is devoted to childish, cookbook interpretations which are vastly oversimplified.  But my biggest complaint comes with the author's system of making predictions itself.  It ultimately relies on eclipses, progressed house cusps and the position of the progressed Moon in order to pinpoint dates and times of events.  This, in my experience as an astrologer, simply doesn't work.  And as someone else noted, she makes no mention of Solar Arc Directions whatsoever.

The author's rambling narrative and anecdotes occasionally bring up an interesting observation here and there.  But based on all of her other glaring errors and omissions, it makes one wonder if her observations are even worth considering.  Ironically, she even promotes in the introduction to the book that astrologers develop a "personal method" in making predictions (in other words, she is suggesting that you may not want to use her method).  Honestly, I'm amazed that her method has worked for her, but if you are expecting it to work for you, then you are likely in for a big surprise.   

This book was a huge waste of my time and I wish that I had not purchased it
