I respect all the positive reviews here, but have a different opinion. For me, this book was like being trapped at a 2 hour meal in a restaurant with a couple I didn't like. If you already see the world in very positive terms, this book will verify your view in glowing new ways. If you're not in a positive place and are trying to get out of it by reading books with titles like "The Art of Possibility", it's not for you. At all. Does it help when people invite you to "cheer up?" Didn't think so. Imagine that x 100. Annoying. 

Rosamund's contributions, for me, were 100% great. She seems wise and experienced and everything she says resonates as true. Unfortunately, she only writes 25-33% of the book. 

The rest of it was Benjamin, and to put it gently, I really didn't connect with him. The whole justification for his "authority" on leadership and positity is that he's a conductor of classical music. For you to have been fortunate enough to make it as a professional musician of some sort and THEN to lecture people on how "anything is possible" is like listening to interviews with American Idol contestants who think they can change the world. (And then lose.) Ben's writing is like a lecture in how things should "really be" by someone from the other political party, whoever you are. 

Being a classical music conductor is like being able to shoot ping pong balls out of some hole in your body or swallow goldfish and spit them back up; it's specialized and requires skill and experience, but it's not a useful reference for people who don't do that professionally. Ask Tiger Woods if golf is hard, and expect a sage and humble answer. But you will not golf professionally as a result of his words, though. And if you don't golf, the message is even less valuable. If Ben was a real artist of any sort, like a musician, or a painter, or writer, or photographer, or chef, or something important or interesting, it could make sense. But conductors are the elevator men of the art world; if they went on strike, would you really notice? It's like being the best "gaffer" of any movie ever. Probably took some work, skill, experience, but your inspiring stories about "gaffing" might not help my non-movie-industry self. (I've studied conducting and gone to school with conductors. It's not all conjecture.)

The book is not worthless, but it's not a fun or easy read. I had to jam it down my gullet like a kale milkshake or like preparation for a math exam. And I'm not better for reading it. Just not for me. If you want to read a book on the power of positive thinking or on how your thoughts affect reality, you could probably just pick another one here on Amazon at random and do better. (Hint: quantum physics?)

Good luck on your search.
