If you want a well-written book based upon an unnecessarily limiting definition of creativity, you have found it. 

On the other hand, if you want a well-written, real, been there, in-the-trenches with you, book on creativity, you must buy Eric Maisel's books. I have found Eric Maisel to be invaluable. He touches the creator's heart. I have read "Deep Writing," and "Coaching the Artist Within." Both are excellent and should be on any artist's shelf. 

On to the review of Csikszentmihalyi's work...

I have read two books by Csikszentmihalyi, "Flow," and "Creativity." I highly recommend Flow. It provides a clear and understandable description of "optimal experience," something we normally refer to as "being in the zone." 

I cannot recommend Csikszentmihalyi's book, "Creativity." Here are my reasons:

1. Definitions

Csikszentmihalyi identifies three definitions of creativity (pg 25-26). The second and third are pertinent here.

a. The second definition is what he terms "personally creative," that is the person who "exeriences the world in novel and original ways." This is what is ordinarily considered creative (see http://www.answers.com/main/ntquery?s=creative&gwp=13). This definition honors the creative person and creative process very well.

b. The third definition is wholly contrived by Csikszentmihalyi. He states that those who "have changed our culture in some important way... are the creative ones without qualifications." This definition, while true for a few, is the basis of the book and is much too narrow for such a diverse and broad subject.

2. The book is based upon an analysis of interviews with people who are prominent in their fields and have a high degree of accomplishment. It was not an invitation across the general population. The interviewees were aged 60 or older. And, of the short list of people who were invited, 275, only a portion agreed to be interviewed (pg. 12-16). Again, the entire list of people studied was too narrow to do the full subject of creativity justice. 

3. There is very little material in the book that is pertinent to the personally (i.e.; not publicly acknowledged) creative person. The personal creator may very well be put off by suggestions that one must study and work in a given field for decades before anything noteworthy can be produced. How discouraging for anyone attempting to create, especially late in life.

Csikszentmihalyi can certainly conduct a study and write a book on whatever he wishes. I applaud his productivity. But, I believe that for the reasons I mentioned, his book on creativity is difficult to recommend.

If you have read this far and have not searched for Maisel's books, do so now. If you are a creative person or wanting to be more creative, get "Coaching the Artist Within.
