I was asked if Umberto Eco was as much a pompous windbag in Foucault's Pendulum as he was in his other novels and responded:

I would say his novels are aimed squarely at the purveyors of pretension. When I was reading Foucault's Pendulum I got the same "pompous windbag" impression and concluded that I could have photocopied vast sections of the the Necronomican of Abdul Al-Hazred and the Yog-Sothoth just as easily and pasted together my own book by following the Dungeons and Dragons Rule Book. But don't listen to me -- I have never been that impressed with Eco, especially as a novelist -- Hamlet said it best: "Words, Words, Words" or was it "very like a whale"? I suspect Eco was just trying to sound as erudite as Joyce (or at least Professor Irwin Corey). However, Foucault's Pendulum might well be his greatest work since no novel he has written since has been as well received.

I did peek at the sales figures for this novel but they have been suspiciously hidden away in a monastery in the Apennines and the only hint I got was the mention of the bump Eco's sales received with the popularity of The Da Vinci Code. Interestingly, someone asked why Eco didn't sue Brown for plagiarism; a better question might be why the authors of The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail didn't sue Eco ... And the answer of course is, follow the money.

But rest assured, despite having attempted to read this pile and given up in disgust, I will give it a generous rating -- 2 stars. Suffice it to say, however, that Foucault's Pendulum had more in common with The Da Vinci Code than just the arcane historical mystery.

I'll be traveling back to New Jersey next week and will be able to visit the large dent in the wall of my office where the parabolic arc of this novel met with the obstinacy of lath and plaster.

But let's be a little fair about this and realize the Foucault's Pendulum, when compared to the other airport gift-shop thrillers, is certainly adequate to cover the time taken for a trans-oceanic flight, whether it keeps you awake or not. Although if they are showing Raiders of the Lost Ark ..
