This book was not actually written by "Larry the Cable Guy," but a gentleman named Dan Whitney.  Whitney is the human being who plays the character "Larry the Cable Guy" in concerts, movies, TV shows, CDs, and now this book.  What Dan Whitney really thinks about anything is up for conjecture, but he certainly knows what he wants people to think his character "Larry the Cable Guy" thinks.  In that way, this book succeeds marvelously, it makes fun of all the things Whitney has observed as making LTCG fans mad, and like president they all voted for, he tells them what something is and whether it is good, bad, or funny (i.e., jesus = good, fart = funny, being retarded = funny, not supporting the Bush administration = bad) and requires only confirmation by repetition of the catch phrase title of the book, and purchase of sundry items bearing the same inscription.  It is brilliantly targeted and presented for maximum cash-in value, with very little discussion and no thought involved at all.  It is the easiest thing in the world to be a  Larry fan because you don't even have to know what is funny, good, or bad, just wait for Larry to sum it up in the simplest little joke imaginable.   That is because he has calculated that if he talks in a thick southern accent (the origin of which is never revealed because it is an amalgam) people will think "wow, he really must be a down to earth fellow to unabashadly parade his hick background instead of trying to "unhickify" himself to reach a wider audience.  The unhickified Dan Whitney was boring and not funny, so he devised the Larry character to play on people who thought a brash, "honest" guy from the south was more funny.  It's a beautiful formula, and Larry is a gazillionaire as a result.    He may have paid  a few visits to a Waffle House to take notes, but you can be assured that establishment does not cater the spread on Dan Whitney's Gulfstream V.

So if you're wondering whether Larry sounds like he's from east Texas, western Louisiana, central Alabama, northeast Arkansas, Northen Florida, southern South Carolina, or smack dab in the middle of Georgia, don't labor too hard, he comes from Nebraska and the accent is fake.  Just like all the heartfelt nonsense in this book he is simply describing what he thinks the big fans of LTCG want to hear.  So if you want to be told what you want to hear by what is basically a cartoon character, instead of engaging in thought about a real human being, then welcome to the world of Larry The Cable Guy.  Just like Santa Claus, The Easter Bunny, and Jesus, he's not real.  Is that un-PC enough for you, Dan
