Ellie, a Marketing Executive in London is a successful, independent woman in her early thirties about to complete her life by marrying the man of her dreams. Life didn't start out so swell for Ellie as she lost her mum when she was just a teenager and her relationship with her dad dissipated into nothing by the time she graduated high school. Then everything changes when she meets Dan. Dan who completes her life not just by being the man of her dreams, but the man who will FINALLY give Ellie what she has always wanted most in life. . . to belong to a real family.  Dan's family seems to be all Ellie has fantasized about since childhood. A loving father, younger spunky sister Emma, the charmer brother Richard, and then the mother of all mothers. . . Linda.  But unfortunately, Ellie realizes soon after meeting Linda that her dream of having a mother quickly turns into a nightmare.... 
Linda is just HORRID from day one. First, she pays for her and Dan's entire wedding and FORCES Ellie to have a huge, elegant, gorgeous, perfect wedding. . .She buys Ellie's wedding dress, gives her diamond earrings (the NERVE!!) and basically just tries to spend as much time as possible with Ellie and become close to her and be the mother Ellie never had. [How dare she!]  Then after Ellie and Dan have their baby Tom, Linda has the audacity to go out and buy the baby tons and tons and tons of baby clothes and toys.  Poor Ellie bursts into depressed and traumatized tears when she sees the dozens of gifts Linda has bought her grandson...[are you picking up on my sarcasm yet?] Linda continues to try and try to be the best loving, doting, attentive mother and grandmother she can be.  All the while Ellie makes it seem like Linda is the most evil woman since Cruella Deville. It eventually got the point where I could not stand Ellie the idiot! She is ridiculously ungrateful, bitchy, whiney and annoying!!! (of course she says "I know I'm being ungrateful but I can't help it" which only makes her worse).  I just disliked Ellie more and more as the book progressed. Nothing Linda did was remotely deserving of how Ellie treated her.  The worst part was how Ellie treated Dan I after the France trip. It seemed so unrealistic. Ellie seemed almost psychotic (hence the need for therapy). The situation with Lisa at the end was a weak attempt to spice up the end, as the book got as stale as month-old bread, right after Ellie got married. . . I can go on and on criticizing this book but it's so bad that it is not worth my time!  Don't waste your time! 
