Seeking the Sacred Raven isn't really about the `alala. It's about Mark Walters' effort to imbue his life with meaning. At the same time, though, Walters chronicles the decline and fall of the `alala (Corvus hawaiiensis, or Hawaiian crow) over the last four decades, which is where the value of his work lies.
	The work is freighted with embarrassingly overwrought prose ("unfurling fronds of fern...green vessels of vegetal life"), sappy reflections ("What unexpected twists and turns of endangered species conservation this journey has taken, I later muse. A library in Philadelphia, wild dogs on a mountain, a ramshackle house in the Kohala hills!"), corny dialogue ("I agree, pigs are destructive," Klavitter politely responds.). 
	What's worse, though, is the sloppy thinking that underlies the very idea behind the book: Walters' search "to discover what was missing in my own largely scientific view of animals: an opportunity to discover the extraordinary in the ordinary, a chance to glimpse wisdom hidden in the seams and folds of everyday experience." It is a search in which he sets up a dualistic universe -- the hard, factual, Joe Friday world of science, and the mysterious realm of the spirit. But in his quest, Walters looks for meaning in the same way that a scientist might: as thought it was a brass ring, possessed of weight and occupying space, and having a fixed location. How else can one explain the fact that his search for meaning and insight so often takes him to specific spots where his musings on life's meaning/the `alala/the speed of tectonic motion invariably fail to yield the Holy Grail of insight?
	Ultimately one needs to judge the book on its own terms. Does Walters succeed in his quest, which, after all, is the point of the book? No. "I now realize that my quest to know the raven will never end," he writes in the book's epilogue.
	Small wonder. His inherent dualism precludes his ever finding a way out of this maze. You can't find meaning with a compass; you can't measure value with a yardstick. Yet this is what Walters seems to want to do.
	Meaning is above all a human construct. It can coexist in perfect harmony with western views of science and nature. Spirituality and science were not at odds in the latter days of the wild crow. Pigheadedness and greed may have been, but to put the conflict in those terms would not have afforded Walters the same opportunities for navel-gazing.
	If instead of looking for supernatural reasons for us to be connected to the `alala (and, by implication, all the other myriad endangered animals and plants brought to their parlous state by human actions), Walters had instead regarded our connection to the bird and concerns over its fate as absolutely, perfectly natural expressions of our human capacity to empathize with other living subjects, his book would have ended up being far less divisive and acrimonious. As it is, many of those who cared deeply for this poor bird and who keenly felt its loss from the wild will be hurt yet again should they come upon Walters' dismissive and ungenerous treatment of their behavior.
As a book that gives insight into Walters' personal religious voyage, Seeking the Sacred Raven has pretty limited appeal, I'd guess. And yet slogging through all that seems to be the price one has to pay for getting to Walters' journalistic "first draft" of the history of the `alala's decline, a subject with far wider resonance. Given the limited literature on the `alala, some may find it worthwhile to hop into the passenger seat as Walters gives the reader a guided tour of his angst. But with the heavy burden of his prose, his cavalier attitude toward fact-checking, and what seems to be a current of ill will that gives an edge to what he'd like us to think are cloud-soft reflections on the meaning of life, I'd urge potential readers to wait for the next bus. (Taken from the July 2006 issue of Environment Hawai`i. All rights reserved.
