Unfortunately, it seems to be an increasingly popular trend today to try and destroy the reputations of deceased screen legends who can no longer defend themselves. This is certainly not the first of its kind, and it's obviously not the last either (too bad!). This book has many brief chapters, each one filled with the worst scandals (abortions, adulterous affairs, criminal activities, etc.) of a specific female screen legend, such as Norma Shearer, Greta Garbo, Jean Harlow, Joan Crawford, Lana Turner, Judy Garland, Ava Gardner, Grace Kelly. Elizabeth Taylor, Hedy Lamarr, and several others. 

The sections on Lana Turner, Greta Garbo, and Hedy Lamaar were especially infuriating, filled with rumors that even the National Enquirer would hesitate to print. For example, according to this book, Mickey Rooney and Lana Turner had an affair in the late 1930's which resulted in Lana having an abortion. Lana Turner already denied this rumor, and the very idea of a beautiful goddess like Lana Turner going for baby-faced Mickey Rooney is, quite frankly, disgusting and totally unbelievable. It also hints strongly that she had an affair with Clark Gable, although in her memoir she wrote that they had no chemistry off-screen. While some may find this kind of book entertaining, I think it's in poor taste. The book also describes Hedy Lamarr's orgies and bi-sexual relationships, and basically tries to pass her off as an arrogant nymphomaniac (the author does the same thing with Garbo).

This book quickly summarizes the screen careers and lives of these great actresses yet goes into great detail about their sexual activity (and preferences). Don't be too naive when reading about the many imperfections of these famous actresses. After all, there is some truth to many of the scandals mentioned, but there are also plenty of rumors that no one could posibly prove to be true. And after all, the author is merely rehashing what you've already read in previous books written by better authors. I suggest that instead of reading this trash you buy a well-researched biography.
