As the American half of a Yank-Aussie binational relationship, I am pleased to see another entry in the small but growing library of books on LGBT immigration (especially to Australia, as my partner and I are pinning our entire future on Australia's just and humane approach to same-sex immigration).

Unfortunately, one can learn more about the _right_ way to go about _legal_ immigration to Australia from the country's own immigration Web site and from the smattering of printed literature than from this book.

The author's personal experience is in no way useful, and, sadly, contributes to the misinformed notion that lesbian and gay immigrants are just trying to take advantage of the system.

In my experience (and the author's experience in no way even remotely resembles my own), nothing could be further from the truth.  As the co-founder of a LGBT immigration-rights group, I can attest that the vast majority of binational couples stay well within the letter (and spirit) of the law, regardless of their respective countries.

Yes, often the end result is a break-up -- but that is not a commentary on the nature of same-sex relationships; unless you have been forcibly separated from your life partner due to discriminatory and downright cruel immigration policy that strips you of the right to marry or sponsor your foreign-born partner -- while allowing any two drunken heterosexuals to hitch up in a Las Vegas chapel five minutes after meeting -- you cannot possibly comprehend the hellish strain on even the strongest relationship.

The author presents a skewed picture of same-sex binational couples -- both in practice and in diversity (excuse me, but not all binational couples are male) -- and is giving the rest of us a bad name.

The upshot:  Don't buy this book.  If you want a true picture of same-sex immigration to Australia (or any of the other 15 countries that offer same-sex immigration), talk to other binational couples (we're all over the Web!), and get the real story from the Australian embassy Web site.  You owe it to yourself, and your partner, to do everything above-board.

Australia is NOT the United States; Oz is light-years beyond the U.S. in terms of fair, sane, and humane immigration policy.  If your relationship is genuine, you do NOT have to resort to dirty tricks
