I sat down to read about this after hearing about it for years, and I want my week back. It only took that long because I had to push myself to finish it.

SPOILERS AHEAD: Meggie and Father Ralph (who everyone always seems to refer to as Ralph de Bricassart, even when they're talking to him) meet when he is twenty-six and Meggie is...ten. She speaks, acts and thinks like a 5-year-old, though. As the years go by, Father Ralph de Bricassart becomes sort of a father figure to little Meggie, and she develops a girlish crush on him. As Meggie is also "developing a very feminine figure," Ralph comes to love her in return but realizes that their love can never be. They discuss this in approximately fifteen thousand "Don't love me, my darling, for I love you but you know our love is forbidden and can never be" conversations throughout the book. Finally, after years of smothering their passion, they do it. In a really very boring scene that's all inner ruminating and blurred descriptions. And wouldn't ya know it, she gets pregnant. Ralph de Bricassart realizes (again) that their love can never be, and leaves. Meggie has his baby, and capers about gleefully that she's "stolen" something back from God. But wouldn't ya know it, the kid (who's as angelic and one-dimensional a boy I've ever encountered in literature) decides to be a priest. So she sends him to Father Ralph de Bricassart for training, who--get this--is so totally brain dead that IT NEVER ONCE OCCURS TO HIM THAT THIS MIGHT BE HIS CHILD!!!!!!! Apparently arithmetic is not a compulsory part of training for the priesthood; this guy also misses an incredibly broad hint from Meggie, when even the other priests figure it out. The Big Secret finally does come out (again in a very brief, anticlimactic scene) toward the end, but by then we're too busy skimming to really care.

All this leaves out a great many things--including immortal dialogue that makes Meggie sound perpetually ten years old ("I'll tell you something else about your roses, Ralph de Bricassart--they've got nasty, hooky thorns!"), endless, heavyhanded symbolism (ashes of roses, thorn birds...we get it! we get it!), some dumb subplot concerning a brother who is absent for 90% of the book, and one of the most unintentionally hilarious "tragic" scenes I've ever read (death by pig). Yet the Ralph-and-Meggie storyline really is the only major thing going on. And we never really get to see what it is that draws these two people together. I was expecting other subplots and development of other characters, and this never really happened. Many of the other relationships were sketchy and/or very confusing: Meggie's cruel judgment of her daughter Justine as a "monster" and a "b* tch," for example, seemed to have no basis. The last third or so involves Meggie making peace with her mother and daughter, and it just doesn't matter. The quick "the end" wrap-up would have been an even greater letdown if I'd still cared by that point. Even the most developed characters are flat and lifeless, and thoroughly unlikable. Scarlett O'Hara was selfish, but she was fun; these people are selfish and boring. Sickly-sweet quasi-romantic trash.
