True or not, I can't help feeling that ANGELA'S ASHES has destroyed a generation of Irish/American writers (or any writer wanting to write in the field).  Not to say that CARRY ME DOWN is ANGELA'S ASHES all over again, but I can feel its ghosts tucked between Hyland's spare, plain, beautiful, yet graphic writing style.  

Haunting is a word that will pop up time and again as you read the book, and it is a haunted book to be sure. The last time I actually got this involved with a character and their moods and feelings was with Will Perry in Phillip Pullman's A SUBTLE KNIFE, so, why the low score when all it seems I have nothing but praise and teaspoons of surgar for this novel... well, there are some problems.

As good as the prose is, it still comes across like a play with all the stage directions wedged into the story trying to pass itself off as legitimate fiction - it's not.  Everything is stark, sharp and literal.  Cup. Table. Chair. Fireplace - you name it, it all reads flat on the page and never sticks in your mind.  Some of the ideas do.  The subplot about being a human lie detector, the struggling and desperate end to a marriage and the breaking of the family unit, it's all done very well.  But then there are the triggers and emotional landmines that cheapen the deal.  The fate of the kittens being the most grevious, and sore thumbed.  It's a brutal scene, and pulls at your heart - not because it's so well written, but because it's murder most foul, plain and simple.  I could ring tears out of that scene in any novel, no matter the subject, so when I read it here it really felt like a scene Hyland had floating around in a journal that got transplated into this novel.  And while the dialogue was well written, and often sharp, it tends to sound flat inside your head.  Almost like you've walked into the 1,000 performance of a play, and the actors hearts are tired of the material - it's colorless, humourless and dry... but still compelling in its decay.

It's a tough novel, one that I wanted to love every time I turned the page, but by the last page I simply could not love it as a novel, but could find some heart for the process and art of it trying to be a novel.  CARRY ME DOWN comes across like a work in progress, much like its lead character, and as he develops we hope the novel will as well, but it never does.  

It ends without ending, much like life itself
