This will be less of a formal review and more of a personal take, more or less. Due to the fact I've read several intro books, as well as the primary source material, i have a well-informed frame of reference in the judgment of this book's merits.

Not long ago I said the following: Russell's A History of Western Philosophy? Patooey! The all time worst intro book i've ever read!

Granted, HWP is witty, no doubt. This is probably the book's only redeeming value, meriting it a star. Scattered throughout are gems like: "I would rather be reported by my bitterest enemy among philosophers than a friend innocent of philosophy." 

On the other hand.... HWP is overrated, underwhelming, and embarrassingly inept for many reasons.

Overrated? The inadequacy and shallowness of most interpretations of the other philosophers' works is the biggest factor. Worst of all, the flippant comments are amusing, which provide entertainment in a conversation, but are utterly out of place when introducing a serious work. However, Russell's take on Leibniz is reliable, because he did his homework, occasionally.

Underwhelming? Russell, like a well trained 'whiggish', kneels deeply before the altar of John Locke, supposedly the champion of the 'modern liberal republican.' Despite admitting that Locke is an inferior philosopher to Spinoza, the godfather gets more press. Instead of philosophy in the HWP, we get self-serving propaganda.

Inept? Not once does Russell ever truly take a problem seriously. IThe complete failure to understand Kant, the philosopher of the enlightenment, as well as Schopenhauer (skipping the World as Will and Representation is not a good idea, Bertie) is a huge let-down. Predictably, he reads Nietzsche as a fascist (exposes his shoddy scholarship by linking him to Nazi socialism), whiffs on Dewey's brand of pragmatism, and for reasons unknown, devotes a chapter on Byron. More bizarre is the excessive attention paid to Catholic philosophy. I don't think the biographer Ray Monk even figured this out, either. Contemporaries like G.E. Moore gets a single mention and Wittgenstein, who he greatly respected, none.

Quite telling, Russell was shocked at the book's success - he produced it casually, intended it as a potboiler, compiled from the notes for the adult education classes he taught in the United States.

Conclusion: The shallowness, due to its intent to amuse, the odd bulk of space devoted to Christian philosophy, all combine to account for world-wide success for The History of Western Philosophy. It might be a good starter, but it also contributes to the sense that philosophy is not worth bothering with. 

Alternatives: Copleston's series is lengthy, but thorough, and far superior. You can't go wrong with Durant's Story of Philosophy, although it is a bit dated. Luckily, Durant writes as well as any writer in English, making that book much more accessible to most. T. Z. Lavine's From Socrates to Sartre concentrates on much fewer big-names, but has a lively narrative that sensationalizes the content.

After you've read any one of these, then try Bryan Magee's books: Great Philosophers and Talking Philosophy where both consists of interviews with scholars. As for a contemporary account, Delacampagne's A History of Philosophy in the 20th century is a delicious read
