Wow, this book is so badly written I felt the need to take the time to write a review to warn others away from it.

First off, it represents itself as military SF, which is reinforced by the cover art, but the reality is that this is nothing like military space opera at all.  The characters are worse than cardboard cutouts; they don't even obey their own rules and do things that don't even make sense within the context of the people they are supposed to be.  The author clearly has huge contempt for the military.

Most of the 'action' (use that word sparingly because there is no real action throughout the whole length of the book) centers around a group of supposedly 'smarter than thou' scientists who were generally dumber than rocks.  Nobody was particularly likable to begin with, and their own rampant stupidity and the nastiness they treated each other with made them thoroughly unlikable characters.

The hero/protagonist of the novel is a scientist who is so good at studying aliens that he loses his own sense of self and actually becomes one of them.  He's done this before and it took him years to be declared 'sane' again.  This might have been interesting if the aliens he was studying were anything other than stereotypical 'savages from the jungle' who (of course) are so much more noble, wise and honorable than any human (yet live in dirt huts and eat bugs).  Somehow it is vitally important for the scientists to figure out what makes these aliens tick because armed with the information about alien psychology then humanity will magically be able to fight off the Remor who are systematically destroying us.

One word here about how much the author seems to hate the military.  The setup is that the Remor (an unknown alien force with high technology) appear suddenly with overwhelming force and destroy planets and systems where humans hold sway.  Despite the fact the aliens have superior technology and threaten the very existance of mankind everywhere, only some of the human governments are willing to band together to form a military force to oppose the Remor.  This IDL 'Interstellar Defense League' basically does all the fighting and dying to hold off the Remor, and though they are losing ground steadily they are at least buying time for everyone else.

Yet everyone else tends to sneer down their noses at the IDL, referring to them as barbarians and acting as if they themselves are the problem.

Then again, they actually *are* the problem, at least the way the author writes them.  Although it makes no logical sense at all, the military of the IDL razes an entire planet of stone-age savage aliens just on the suspicion that they might be distantly related to the Remor aliens that are attacking earth.  Then when a second planet is found (again with aliens that basically don't even have writing yet) they want to do the same thing again.

Oh, even trying to make logical sense out of this mess gives me a headache.  The author doesn't know how to write - the characters are terrible and the plot is worse.  Plus the author has a huge contempt for anything military, and it really shows through, making a dumb plot even dumber.

I was expecting a good space opera with fleet-to-fleet combat against an intelligent alien menace (that's what the back of the book promised anyway).  This is anything but.  I'd recommend Walter Jon William's 'Dread Empire's Fall' series, Jack Campbell's 'The Lost Fleet' series, or Steven Kent's 'Clone Republic' series to name off a couple of the more recent examples of what this genre actually should be
