I have never typed a review before, but after reading this book, I felt compelled to voice my opinion.  I was raised Catholic and as I grew older found myself questioning my own faith.  I have many of the same conflicting feelings between science and religion that the author himself claimed to have.  When I read the description for "The Case for a Creator", I was filled with anticipation of what lay within the pages.  However, once I reached page 50, I felt like the air had been let out of the tires.  How, I wondered, could the book claim to present a "case", when the mention of a "case" leads the reader to believe that, as in the court of law, both sides will be presented and argued fairly, and the final determination will rest in the hands of the jury, or in the case of a book, in the hands of the reader.  However, in the "One-Sided Case for a Creator", Strobel destroys his own credibility by not even attempting to cleverly conceal his agenda towards the idea of an intelligent and divine creator.  It is almost an insult to the reader, as if Strobel is saying to us, "I don't want or expect you to think about, analyze, or question what I am saying, I just expect you to lap it up and accept it as truth."  I find Strobel's writing to be maddening...at the end of each chapter I was left with a hungry feeling, as though I had just eaten a plate of air.  With each chapter, I hoped that Strobel would redeem himself by presenting both sides to his so-called "case"...however, he consistently disappointed by presenting only his side.  After reading the book, I was left confused, skeptical, and felt the need to research the side of the case that Strobel conveniently neglected.  A book that could have been a masterpiece falls far short and is an insult to any reader who is looking for a well-rounded argument.  If you agree with Strobel's point of view, you will love it and will lap it up...but why read it if you already believe in the idea of a divine creator???  If you are searching for a convincing book of substance, look elsewhere.  
