In late 2002, Herschel Shanks of Biblical Archaeology Review announced that a private collector had in his possession an ossuary (burial box) from first century A.D Judea with the inscription "James son of Joesph brother of Jesus" written in Aramaic (the language of the Jews at the time of Jesus). Needless to say, this caused a firestorm of publicity. Assuming it was authentic, this would be an actual relic from a member of the early Apostolic Church. Adding to its force was the "brother of Jesus" addition since a brother would only have been listed if he had been a person of great prominence. Perhaps desiring such confirmation of their beliefs, many prominent members of the Christian community uncritically accepted the disconvery and jumped on the ossuary bandwagon.

Shortly after the announced find, Shanks and Evangelical Protestant scholar Ben Witherington III teamed to write this book on the discovery. Shanks wrote the first part detailing the details of how it was discovered while Witherington lent his take on the person of James as revealed in the Scriptures and history. In a classic example of a "rush to judgment", their joint effort was published less than six months after the original furor and blurs the line between scholarship and propaganda.

Shanks, who has always been a bit the enfant terrible of Biblical era Archaelogical Research, is no stranger to controversy. He has been accused of using BAR as a soapbox to attack the work of scholars with whom he disagrees and of using the most well known popular publication on the subject to diseminate a skewed version of the nature of contemporary scholarship. Even worse in many researchers eyes is the fact that BAR accepts advertisements from those selling antiquities privately - thus rewarding the practices of looting and forgery.

On the other hand, BAR has printed articles from some of the top researchers in the field and has given the public an opportunity to read the scholars' accounts of their work first-hand in a non-technical setting. Furthermore, his use of BAR to champion the cause of making the Dead Sea Scrolls available to all scholars played a large part in their eventual release.

In this case, his enthusiasm and aggressiveness as well as his connections to the private antiquities market have come to haunt him as the Israeli Antiquities Authority found that he had been duped - the ossuary was real but the inscription was a fake. In fact, it was later discovered to be part of a large criminal ring manufacturing fake antiquities. Still, BAR on their website refuses to admit their failings and still promotes the ossuary as possibly being authentic.

Even though this turned out to be a fraud, the Shanks section of the book can be a useful tool as an example of the dangers of finding something too good to be true. Perhaps fueled by his enthusiasm, he allowed his critical judgment to be suspended and allowed himself to be hoodwinked. It may now be a case of 20/20 hindsight, but the explanations of the supposed "collector" now sound so contrived that the fakery present seems obvious. Yet con artists often depend on enthusiasm suspending common sense and it is no less the case here.

The fact that some researchers were fooled as well only proves how sophisticated the creators of fake relics have become. They have the money to buy the knowledge necessary to pull off the fraud. Someone can supply the proper Aramaic or other anceint laguage needed for the inscription, the exisence of the patina develops on the surface over the centuries can be simulated, etc. It is cat and mouse game where new technologies are used to keep a step ahead of the manufacturers of fake artifacts. As has been shown in some high-profile cases in the last few decades, even top museums have been fooled and spent millions only later to be forced to eat a generous helping of humble pie.

Witherington, for his part, cannot help but revel in this seeming confirmation not only of his Christian beliefs but also his in-house quarrels with other Christians. He places a great deal of stock in the phrase "brother of Jesus" to deny the common belief within historic Christianity of the virginity of Mary throughout her earthly life. Evangelicals deny this "Catholic" belief as "invented" even though it is one of the most affirmed views of the early Church. Regardless of its truth, Witherington shows his partisan stripes by some highly questionable statements meant to demonstrate the incompatibility of this find with the traditional belief.

The fact is that even if the artifact had been genuine, it would have no effect on the pertinent question. The earliest traditions have Joesph as a widower who married Mary and thus James and the other siblings mentioned were stepbrothers. A later explanation in the West by St. Jerome theorized they were cousins. The term "brothers" in the context of first century Jewish culture had a far more general sense than now and was frequently applied to kinsmen of the same generation. Given the oldest explanation, even this reasoning was unnecessary as they would be seen in the Jewish culture as brothers in the more restrictive sense.

During his consideration of this question, Witherington - perhaps motivated by the whole ossuary fiasco - introduces a few bits of fakery on his own. In a classic bit of obfuscation, he infers the cousin theory could not stand because the ossuary calls James a "brother of Jesus" without mentioning Aramaic has no word for "cousin" and then seeks to support his case by stating New Testament Greek does have such a word. Of course, the New Testament usage is an entirely separate issue and has no bearing on his case since the inscription is Aramaic. Furthermore, the Septuagint (the Greek translation of the Old Testament) used the Greek word for "brother" to denote such a relationship. I happen to think the cousin argument is weak for other reasons, but Witherington's case against it is pure sleight-of-hand.

Even worse is his argument against the prior marriage idea. He admits it has a paprer trail going back to the second century A.D., but claims it must be a distortion by anti-Jewish Christians without giving any evidence that a controversy existed on the subject at the time. He also claims the inscription would not be true because James would not be a true brother of Jesus. This is complete nonsense. Anyone who is accepted and raised by Joseph would have been regarded as his son and other sons would have regarded him as his brother. Furthermore, Witherington avoids the fact that under his beliefs James would only be a half-brother since they would only share a mother. The difference between a half-brother and a stepbrother and why the inscription would apply only to one and not the other is just special pleading. In the case of full brother, stepbrother, or half-brother, James would have simply been identified as the "brother of Jesus."

This issue aside, the remainder of his section is a quite good introduction to the person and ministry of James. Especially good was his exposition of how James tried to mediate the differnces between the Judaizers and St. Paul. This makes it all the sadder that he presented such misleading information on a partisan issue mar an otherwise fine presentation. Even the good information though, is available elsewhere without the erroneous polemics

In the end, it doesn't really matter. This book stands as a monument to how even the experts can be taken in by someone motivated by a large payday. The exposing of the fraud guaranteed a short lifespan for this particular work. Unless you desire to research how educated people get the wool pulled over their eyes, it is not to be recommended. 

