This book deserves two stars for the message and zero for the messenger. The middle-class is indeed in trouble, but not necessarily for all the reasons Lou Dobbs offers here. It is interesting to note that as host of CNN's "Moneyline," Dobbs was a champion of the pro-business policies that have in great measure led to the pain and suffering of the middle-class. We can fairly ask when Dobbs suddenly "discovered" the middle-class; it seems to have occurred shortly after he discovered the immigration issue, when it was pointed out that many of his guests on his "Broken Borders" had ties to hate groups. Dobbs had to discover the middle-class as a facade around the immigration issue, as a cover to the fact that he was allowing people with ties to or were in fact members of white supremacist organizations to frame the debate. 
     Dobbs may sound "reasonable" when speaking to Al Franken on Air America, but his written words leading up to the 2006 elections are that of a xenophobe and bigot. Going from the pro-business extreme to the other has naturally led to some confusion on Dobbs part, and one wonders if he is ignorant of the racial aspect of his views or is the slickest snake oil salesman on the planet. So much for the messenger 
     Beyond that, one thing is for certain: after all these years as being the "expert" on the market, he never seems to have left Wall Street long enough to understand the reality on the street that he now claims to speak for.
    One of these realities is than in the "good old days" Americans were over-compensated, and the bubble burst when high priced American-made goods could not compete with low-priced foreign-made goods. The result was lost manufacturing output and lost jobs that never have been replaced to any significant degree, and what new manufacturing there has been have not replicated the same wages There may have been an opportunity to arrest this development if there had been the will to reinvent domestic manufacturing in line of the new realities, but domestic output was ignored in favor of military construction during the critical years of the Reagan administration. Unlike post-WW II, this military build-up did not replicate the level of domestic manufacturing expansion.
    Now, it is business executives who are over-paid, and although it is interesting to speculate how many jobs can be created if a CEO compensated $20 million a year makes just one million less, or how much it would increase workers' wages, the fact is it wouldn't be much. Wage redistribution would have to extend beyond the upper class into the "yuppie" class whose best skills seems to be moving paper and talking. By the same token, even if the nativists are correct that "low-skill" immigrants depress wages, we're only talking cents, not dollars--which would hardly propel low-wage workers into middle-class status.  Would raising minimum wage a few pennies do the trick? It is insulting to make such a claim, and furthermore studies have shown that for every 2 percent raise in the minimum wage, one percent of low-income workers are laid-off.
    There are myriad other reasons why wages are depressed, such as out-of-control healthcare costs.  But in any case, for Dobbs this is all secondary to the immigration issue, which is mendacious if only for the reason that he is playing a xenophobic political game without accknowleding uncomfortable realities. It is easy to blame businesses for hiring undocumented workers, but the fact is they wouldn't be if they didn't need to, and current immigration law makes it almost impossible to obtain that labor legally. Much of the work that undocumented workers do is seasonal, migratory or otherwise require some measure of mobility, which most Americans are reluctant to do even if housing and transportation was provided by employers. And these jobs certainly do not provide a path to middle-class status.
     Having staked his credibility on assaults on Mexican immigrants in league with known racists, Dobbs was a big loser in the 2006 congressional elections, no matter how mendaciously he tries to spin it as a "victory" now. "Populism" and nativism are not a mix recognized by progressives; if he thinks so, then Dobbs is an even more irrational demagogue than any of us may already suspect.
