Whereas I commend Stover and all the other authors and essayists for taking time to make their contributions here with wit, wisdom, and even mild entertainment value, this book is obviously Brin's brainchild and Brin's mouthpiece, his personal hatchet job picking up where he left off in his white-knuckle foam-at-the-mouth anti-SW rant of a few years back.  Brin nominated himself to be supreme arbiter of what is or is not "good" and "in the public's best interest," and the shining defender of pop culture, waving his magic sword in defiance of the evil "immorality" he sees in the SW films, chomping at the bit and begging for attention.

It is therefore no accident at all that Brin placed himself in the Prosecution's desk, as Brin has had a very admitted (and very dubious) axe to grind against SW for years, which in this context manifests itself as nothing less than textbook conflict of interest.
For example:
One of Brin's charges is that cheap SW novels have driven "real" sci fi off the shelves.  
#1, Brin has reserved the right to define "real" all to himself and tolerates no disagreement, and
#2, Brin's own novels are exactly the ones that ARE pushed off the shelves, therefore he obviously has every reason to resent SW's success (as it has come at the expense of his own), and every reason to come off as a firebrand against Lucas's superior marketplace success (and for the record, Brin does indeed bestow "real" on his own writings, surprising no one).

The book brings up several distinct "charges" against Star Wars, but true to Brin's pre-existing bias, the vast majority of his arguments are obvious selective evidence, elitist ramblings, and Straw Men, with none being so ridiculous as Number one, being:

"The politics of Star Wars are anti-democratic and elitist."

Brin is fond of the word "demigod," and portrays the Jedi (against any rational observations of the films themselves) as black-magic tyrants, wielding their power as Divine Right to rule the galaxy as they see fit, unaccountable to anyone.  Far from being debatable, this viewpoint is at best pre-established prejudice and at worst utter paranoia, completely refutable on any number of levels.
#1 The government in both the prequels and the originals, is obviously portrayed as democratically elected, with an elected Chancellor for the Senate (who is subject to recall and removal), and a non-jedi leadership for the rebels.  In fact even after Skywalker gets his superpowers, he still follows orders from any number of mortals, doing his proper duty as commanded.

#2  In the prequels, at no time is it ever demonstrated that the Jedi exert power over this government and in fact quite the opposite, as the "demigod" jedi are shown being given, and FOLLOWING, orders from mere mortals in the elected government.  And the only time the jedi make even an hesistant suggestion to seize power, it is to response to a leader with obvious anti-democratic suggestions.  The jedi do not covet their power, do not aggrandize their power, and do not flaunt their power.  And Yoda himself is giving a very poignant line in Attack of the Clones chastising jedi-overconfidence, proving his humble thoughts on the matter.

#3  For all of the harping of "Demigods," and Brin's insistence on being the ONE individual to have cracked George Lucas's evil and nefarious agenda to portray the jedi as superheroes worthy to surrender all free-will to, he completely ignores the quite obvious freedom-fighting contributions of any number of mere-mortals, portrayed on screen as being every bit as significant.  Including but not limited to:  a mere mortal (Lando) blowing up the 2nd Death Star, a mere mortal (Han Solo) saving Luke Skywalker over the 1st Death Star, a mere mortal (Wedge) being the only other Rebel pilot to survive, and fight with honorable ability and distinction in all three movies, and not to mention a mere mortal being the heroine of Phantom Menace, capturing the evil-doers herself in the throne room while the jedi were off goofing around with the Sith in the Hangerbay.

Such only scrapes the surface, but the last point is particularly telling, as one of Brin's other complaints is 
"Women in Star Wars are portrayed as fundamentally weak."
With Amadali singlehandedly saving the Phantom Menace, and Princess Leia singlehandedly saving the Rebellion in all three original films, it can honestly be questioned if Brin really cared to research his positions at all.  With his flimsy analysis and overbearing bias against the subject matter (not to mention the absolutely laughable, unwarrented, and juvenile ANGER repeatedly displayed by Brin, going so far as to label Yoda's "There is no try," speech as "offensive." This leads his co-editor Stover into observations of exactly who, between himself and Brin, is obviously the more happy and friendly induvidual to hang around with), we are giving plenty of room to wonder.

Other charges are as follows:
Charge# 4: Science fiction filmmaking has been reduced by Star Wars to poorly written special effects extravaganzas.
Charge# 5: Star Wars has dumbed down the perception of science fiction in the popular imagination.
Charge# 6: Star Wars pretends to be science fiction, but is really fantasy. 

To be frank, Brin's insistence on even bringing these up showcases his elitist opinions on the matter.  To an significant extent, Brin is angry that someone else is playing with "his" crayons, and he resents any intrusion on "his" genre by an artist Brin feels is beneath him (and even his co-editor Stover nails Brin with this same observation in the closing arguments).  That is just a pure and simple shame, and a reprehensible attitude for one artist to place on another.  Brin's obvious anger towards Lucas taints the credibilty of the majority of his arguments, and if he were to have channeled his creative energies towards something more, well, creative, he could have written a more "real" contribution to society.  There have got to be more important things to argue about in this day and age.  Pass on this one
