This book relates the details of the life of Gerry Spence, a well-known trial lawyer.  From his earliest days of life through the beginnings of his second marriage, Spence reveals to us what his life was like, who his influences were, and how he reacted.  The driving focus of the book is Spence's mother, who took her own life when he was a young man.  At the time of her death, she and Spence had had a falling out, and Spence sees much of the rest of his life as trying to make peace with her.  At the end of this book, some of Spence's famous cases and clients are mentioned in an epilogue; however, these topics are not discussed in the memoir section at all.

As an outsider to Spence's family, this book was extremely hard to get through.  Some of the details of his early life in rural Wyoming were quite interesting, and he certainly reveals some of his character as he variously compares arguing in the courtroom to wild game hunting or playing poker.  The stories of his first marriage and its breakup, and how he took up with another woman are not exactly things to be proud of, and I'm not sure his family would really want to see these details published.  When his marriage was on the rocks, he decided to sell his family's home in Wyoming together with all their possessions and start life anew in Mill Valley, California.  Within a month, though, he abandoned his family in Mill Valley, where they were far from relatives, friends or any other people who might provide emotional support, to go back to his mistress in Wyoming.  I couldn't help thinking about Judith Wallerstein's book about children of divorce ("Second Chances") when I read this section.  For her studies, she chose families facing divorce in the early 1970s living in a town in California.  Was it Mill Valley where she did her studies?  Did she include the four Spence children in her work?  Was it the Spence children whose standard of living took a drastic nosedive when their father moved in with someone else?  But it was the woe begotten prose addressed to Spence's mother that was the most difficult part of this book to get through.  I had hoped to develop some sympathy for lawyers, or at least for this one, or maybe even learn something about growing up in the West during the Depression by reading this book.  Instead, after reading this book, I find myself repelled even by the thought of reading any more memoirs by lawyers.
