This book has several problems which keep me from recommending it to anyone. It book presents most, if not all, dragons as wise and helpful to humans. It is we humans (especially Christians) who make dragons into evil monsters. Many of the "facts" about dragons presented are sugar-coated, if not outright wrong. I have to wonder how wise this is if you are planning to go summoning otherworldly entities in ritual. For example, Fafnir is supposeldey the "Ruler of Dragons of the South", roughly analogous to the guardian of the watchtowers of the south. There is also a description of Fafnir's mythology, which describes how Fafnir is slain by the Germanic hero Sigurd. Fafnir, while dying, warns Sigurd that Sigurd's treacherous "friend" Regin is about to kill him. However, any other book of Germanic or European mythology will tell you a more complete version of the story: Fafnir and Regin were human brothers, who killed their father for his hoard of treasure, among it the cursed ring Andvarinaut. Fafnir then took all of the treasure for himself, changing himself into a dragon to protect his twice stolen hoard. Not exactly the sugar 'n' spice version of dragons presented in this book, and somthing to seriously consider before you invite him to be invoved with your rituals. Come to think of it, many of the "dragons" presented here are not. Many are simply large serpents or other mythical beings labelled as dragons. The illustration of "The Goddess Tiamat" clearly has a [...], and is called in Mesopotamian Mythology books an Imdugud, or Lion-eagle. 

If what you want to do is have Draconic Wicca, if you feel a deep and true connection to dragons and dragon imagery, this is fine, more power to you. As someone with friends who are dragon people, I get this. However, I would encourage you to read actual mythology concerning them; captured maidens, stolen hoards, patricide and all. Look at the original myths and the cultures that knew of these beings, and don't take medieval accounts at literal face value. These are the same people who believed that bloodletting cured disease, after all. I'm sure your rituals will be much more powerful for it. I will say that this book would be useful for its tables and dragon-flavored Wiccan imagery. Just don't take it too seriously.
