I marvel at the origins of marvel comics. This man is such a liar!Does  Stan Lee have no shame? If you really want to know how Marvel Comics came  to be,read some background on one Mr.Jack Kirby.For Stan Lee to say that he  would come up with an idea then pass it along to Jack Kirby is not only  ludicrous but also peposterous.Stan Lee also fails to mention many artists  who where also working at the Marvel bullpen at the time.Many artist who  where working at Marvel at the time have gone on to state that Stan Lee  never wrote a single story!! The way the artist of the day would go about  writing a story would be by writing it along the borders and making it up  as they went along.If this is true,then Jack Kirby created the entire line  of characters for Marvel Comics.Many of the more important ones any  ways.The Incredible Hulk,Captain America,The Fantastic Four,Thor,The  X-Men,And The Avengers to name a few.And also not to mention the cover to  Amazing Fantasy #15.When Stan Lee states very proudly that the idea for The  Fantastic Four was all his ,it upsets me.If you are really a true comic  book fan then you would know that the Fantastic Four are just recycled  characters from Simon and Kirby's Challengers Of The Unknown.Which , I  might add was published for D.C.Comics and not for Marvel.Jack Kirby was an  artist and an idea man when he and Joe Simon collaborated together.These  two men came up with many characters and many ideas together.At least Mr.  Simon had the decency to admit it.But the same cannot be said for Stan  Lee,he and he alone wants to take credit for the creation of Marvel Comics  most memorable heroes.This book is filled with nothing but self  glorification and staight out lies put to paper by Stan Lee.Excelsior my  foot,how about expell yourself?Very little is said about Simon &amp;  Kirby's creation of Captain America for Marvel comics in the forty's. Stan  Lee didn't even work for Marvel Comics at the time that Captain America  made his comic book debut!! Origins of Marvel Comics also speaks very  little about Steve Ditko,Don heck,and John Romita Sr. some of comicdoms  most famous artists.This book fails to aknowledge the contributions they  also made for Marvel Comics.But then again I guess that's the way Stan Lee  wanted it when he wrote this book.I belieive this book did very much  damadge to Jack Kirby's carreer.To this day he is not given the proper  credit he so rightly deserves.The way Marvel Comics treated Jack Kirby can  be compared to the exile of Moses from Egypt in wich his name must forever  be stricken from it's books and never be spoken again! I wouldn't recommend  purchasing this book but if you do,go right out and buy some material to  compare notes and then make your decision about the Origins Of Marvel  Comics . Pick up The art of Jack Kirby for refference because there was  never really  a &quot;Marvel Age Of Comics,&quot;there was only a  &quot;Jack Kirby Age Of Comics.&quot; If you wish to send me your comments  or opinions send them to 3019 s. Poplar Ave. Chicago Illinois 60608.KIRBY  POWER!! and STAY ROMITALIZED!
