In Stephen  Silbiger's words, "I realised that the basics of an MBA education were quite simple and could easily be understood by a wider audience." What the author is trying to do with his book is to cram in two years of an MBA education into 350 pages. Naturally, the book misses the whole point of the exercise of a University education: it takes time to grasp the often complex models that students will have to master in order to be eligible for a diploma with their name on it. It may be true that a lot of MBA programmes are very repetitive and that the basic information can indeed be summarised into a few pages only, however this means that all the details is missing.

As we all know, MBA programmes are very heterogeneous and will all differentiate at teaching something slightly different, in as far as the subjects are concerned (obviously the contents remains the same for the same subjects). Silbiger's MBA is based upon 9 subjects, where others like negotiation, international business, entrepreneurship, or project management are all summarised into one chapter. 

What this book does well, is to emphasise that the main objective of an MBA is to be able to take a global decision within an organisation, that is decide in such a way that no aspect of your entrerprise will be defavoured in any way. However, not only does the book lack in perspective (the author literally bases his this book on his personal educational experience and does not focus at all beyond the US border), but at the same time the contents of this book is very shallow. The great theories are only outlined in very general terms and a lot of detail and further theories that you should expect from a sound MBA, are missing totally. The book is an insult for all those who have actually completed an MBA, by spending one or two years at a constitutional MBA, and puts the non-MBA reader at a very low level.

Thus only the lowest rating can be awarded for this book, as it fails to deliver what it promises
