I bought this (luckily, used) based on the excellent reader reviews I read here on Amazon.  I could not have been more misled.

This is one of the worst self-improvement books I have ever read. It is bad beyond anything I could have expected, so bad that had I not gotten my hopes up for a good read with some good advice, I probably would have fallen out of my recliner laughing.

This book is a very thin gruel of other writers' ideas, dumbed down for the sort of reader who finds literary satisfaction in  romance novels. The substance of this book is nothing more than "If you write down what you want--and keep writing it down, if necessary--you'll get it."  Hmmm.  

"Hmmm" is right.  

Hardly anyone these days isn't familiar with the earlier New Age incarnation of this idea--writing affirmations--and anyone who has read the writings of the Founding Fathers of motivational self-improvement (like Napoleon Hill) has seen it as well.

Far, far too much of this book consists of anecdotes.  The anecdotes range in their effect from soporific to nauseating.  Take "Gloria's" story, for example.  An entire chapter is devoted to Gloria's search for love, for a husband.  She writes letters to a "soul mate" that she has not yet met.  Among her puerile love-maunderings, she writes a description of the soul mate she hopes to meet:  He is a "beautiful" dresser, and has "Strong hands, deep integrity, and spiritual truth," and a gift for "making and having money." She doesn't want the money because she's high maintenance and loves to spend; no, she wants the money "for the joy, love, peace, and bounty it can bring the world."  (Uh, yeah, sure Gloria.  Clearly you're one of those unfortuate individuals who believes her own bs.)

After two years of writing this sort of pabulum to herself, Gloria goes to a bar, gets picked up by a lawyer, and marries him 11 months later. As we all know, lawyers typically possess exactly the sorts of qualities she was looking for in a soul mate, so this outcome is hardly surprising....

The book doesn't get any better than this, and there is even a short chapter at the end of the book to help you rationalize the failure of the techniques (for lack of a better word) described between the interminable anecdotes.  

Most importantly, the advice simply doesn't work.

This book really is a silly piece of nonsense.  Skip it.
