Before you read the book, look at the sources.  I only found one scientific paper out of hundreds of sources. Everything else has to be classified as opinions.  Sources for this book  include news stories and testimonies in congress.  I will point out by two examples (not from the book, but from information that you are probably familiar with) why these are not good sources. I recall the news stories based on the opinions of experts that said it would take five years to put out the oil well fires started in the first Gulf War.  They were all wrong.  It took six months.  CEO's and others testified before congress about tobacco products being non-addictive.  Were they correct? No! So when we read this book, we can't be sure of anything.  It is a book of opinions and ideas.  Some of them may be good, but they may also be bad.  This is why we have science and the scientific method.  Even science may be corrupted at times or fail until we have a better understanding. Even if Mr. Gore had scientific papers, it is unlikely that he could judge whether they really support his environmental views.  He would need a Ph.D. or at least a lot of experience in the proper field(s) to interpret scientific papers properly.

This book discusses how corporations are unfriendly to the environment. Surely some of them are.  But so is the government.  When the government plant at Fernald, Ohio, (near Cincinnati) was accused of poluting the soil and water with radioactive waste, the government denied, dragged its feet, and fought in court. The government lost it case because there was obvious guilt, but the government did not hestitate to fight against the very people it represents. When you or I appear to be at fault in an auto accident, do we admit it and offer to pay all claims, or do we take a less candid approach as our insurance company suggests?  We might even think we are not at fault. Mr. Gore has denied being at fault countless times in his political career, but he can't believe that a corporation should do anything but admit guilt, accept every environmental claim that is made, and pay large sums of money.

Mr. Gore is an elitist.  First, he believes that he is an environmental expert because he has heard a lot of opinions. He doesn't need an advanced degree in environmental science  or experience in that field.  He just knows better because he is Al Gore. Secondly, he sees how he uses the environment and how you should use the environment quite differently.  When he was Vice President, he flew to Kyoto, Japan, to symbolically (read unnecessary trip) approve the Kyoto Treaty.  He used more than 180,000 gallons of fuel in a private government plane in one day.  My wife and I can drive our cars and heat our house for our lifetimes and never use this amount of fuel.  During his Presidental campaign, Mr. Gore would fly a private jet to his son's games.  I have no great objection to the former Vice President doing these things as long as he doesn't start telling me how I am abusing the environment, that I should drive an electric car, ...  I do have trouble believing his environmental views are anything but political.

If you like the views in the book, read it and feel good.  If you don't like the views, read it for some good laughs.  There are plenty of flaws.  Books like this make money, but they don't make good science, and they don't produce good policy.  Don't forget to recycle the book
