I read The Alchemist a few months ago and posted a glowing review of it on Amazon. I don't know what I was thinking. I must have been temporarily insane or something because looking back on it, I can't believe I fell for such a hollow load of rubbish. There were no real revelations to it at all. It's just a childish story with delusions of grandeur.

The idea that we are all looked after by the universe, if only we let ourselves go is a joke. Don't get me wrong, I know it sounds like a great idea, but let's face it, life's a lot more complicated than that.

Basically, The Alchemist and Veronika Decides to Die has about as much wisdom as you'd find in a fortune cookie. It's all just stuff to make you feel better about yourself even if your life is rubbish. What it comes down to is the idea that everything's fine as long as you're happy. So as far as my ex-girlfriend was concerned, she was happier spending time with some actor she met at her book group than she was with me, and that justifies her dumping me. I saw him as well. He was the usual type of scruffy look-at-me-I'm-so-dark-and-deep loser women always seem to want, even though they always say they want a nice guy in all those polls I read in their magazines. But hey, as long as she's living for the moment, and seizing life, then it's all fine and she can't possibly be wrong, can she? And she had the nerve to suggest in the letter she wrote to me that I should read Veronika Decides to Die and embrace my destiny. And she won't answer any of my calls because "now we need space to find ourselves", in other words, because she doesn't want to. She probably doesn't even know what she's done. And she definitely doesn't care. These books and this philosophy is so selfish and blinkered. Most people give up all this stuff when they leave university. Grow up and try living in the real world for once. This philosophy's only about looking after yourself at the expense of others.

I really think these books are dangerous. They fool people into thinking they're making the world a better place when really they're just acting like children. I feel really sorry for people who have bought into this. I just resent falling for it, and I'm angry at myself for having believed in it at the time. It makes me feel used, if you want the truth. I really feel like warning as many people so they don't make the same mistake that I did.

At least I can see it for what it is now. A complete waste of time. I just want my time back. I want it all back. Every last minute, every book I read, every film I saw, everything. But life's not like that. And it'll never be like this book either
