It would be hard to come up with a more brain-dead characterization of the peoples of the world than to lump them into "us", Americans, and "them", all the other peoples of the world.  Yet Churchill and Chomsky and most others who mistake their anti-Americanism for leftism consistently start from that mindlessly provincial premise.

Are the folks who hate us the Australians?  Well, no.  Our British allies?  Well, not them either.  The Chinese, many of whom are so eager to get green cards to study or live here?  Those I met were often conscious that Chinese prosperity is founded upon US willingness to open its markets to their goods.  In sharp contrast to European protectionism.  How about the Indians, for whom holders of US citizenship or greencard status are almost a new subcaste for marital matchmaking?  The Canadians hate us, do they?  Though it is hard for anyone to tell us apart?  Perhaps the Greeks, Poles, Italians, and Irish hate us, which is why they eagerly tell American tourists about their cousins in Baltimore or Chicago?  Surely the Russians, Ukrainians, and inhabitants of other former Soviet countries hate us?  Except for attributing their freedoms and the beginnings of their new prosperity to our victory over the Soviet Union?  How about the Filipinos - surely they must despise us for ruling them as a colony?  Well no.  They learn in school that the US without violence or even prompting made the Philippines independent in 1935 and rescued them from Japanese occupation during WWII, and they too, often have relatives in the US.  Surely the Thais, must hate us - but no, their story is much the same as the Chinese.  And on and on, around the world.  

The Arabs surely must hate us.  Except for the Shi'ite majority of Iraqis who recognize that we have just freed them from decades of bloody Baathist suppression of their religion and folkways.  And the Lebanese must hate us, except for those who love their country and are delighted with American support for driving the decades-old Syrian military occupation out of their country.

But Churchill and Chomsky are right that there are those who do hate us.  Palestinians and Egyptians danced in the streets when they learned that 3,000 Americans died in New York on 9-11.  The attackers themselves were Saudis and products of the Wahhabbi system of religious bigotry and xenophobia which passes for education and news in that country.  

The "they" who hate us, when examined, turn out to be not the whole world, not the whole Muslim world, and not even the whole Arab world, but only the most racist, bigoted, and xenophobic portions of it.

And those are the people whom Ward Churchill and Noam Chomsky and their supporters identify with
