I have to say that I found this book a bit of a disappointment especially having read the author's comment &quot;if you were to purchase just one book on Irish Families, I have written this work for you&quot;. In fact if  this the only book you consult on Irish families you will be most upset.  The book makes the mistake of trying to reinvent the wheel by cataloging  families from old data sources. This has already been done, much better, by  several other authors. For the most prominent families, this publication  adds nothing to the existing knowledge base. It's attempt to include rare  names is honorable, but the amount of information provided is scant, at  best. For example, &quot;The family of Mulvey is traditionally linked to  Co. Leitrim and it has remained so in modern times&quot; hardly does  justice to this once great sept. The entries are also inconsistent, for  some the Irish form of the name is included and for others it is not. I  would have expected all of the old Gaelic names to have their Irish form  included. The coats of arms are a real let down, not only are they in  monochrome (colour is the essence of heraldry), but the quality of  reproduction is poor. It would have been better to leave them out  altogether. There are also quite a few errors and omissions (though the  author does admit this at the start). One that stuck me was the list of  Jewish-Irish names which omits the most famous of all, Briscoe. A look at  the entry for Briscoe shows no mention of the family's Jewish heritage,  despite the fact that at least members of the family have had high  political profiles in Dublin. The book claims Flaherty and Laverty as the  same name and while this is true in terms of their root word origin in  Irish, the names are racially quite distinct. In another case the book  fails to link the two names Haughey and Haffey. I found the book too  heavily reliant on &quot;Keating's History&quot;, which while excellent, is  far from the only source available. Another off-putting aspect is the fact  that the names are not listed in proper alphabetical order and names  beginning with &quot;B&quot; crop up among the &quot;A's&quot; and so on.  On the plus side, the book does include a lot of information and it is not  expensive as such publications go. In short, this is not a book for  one-name researchers but should be on the shelves of all with a general  interest in Irish names
