I cannot recall when I have ever encountered so many "hypotheses," "supposes," "suggests," "probably" "calls to mind," etc. in such a short amount of space. More suppositions exist than theories, and those suppositions are based on highly dubious inferences. Damasio has obviously thought long and hard about his dysfunctional patients, and the fact that he wants to ground consciousness and emotions in neurobiology (as opposed to computers) gave me optimism and a tinge of excitement. Unfortunately, obfuscation prevailed.

Extrapolating hypotheses based on brain deficits and damage is one among many inductive means of substantiating theory. The problem, of course, is that exceptionalism usually doesn't define, it may, and I underscore may, posit evidence to support a hypothesis. But it is only one means of support. Just because the street is wet doesn't mean it just rained; someone could have watered the area with a sprinkler. It's this kind of reasoning that is most troublesome with Damasio's theories. By supposing that someone who lacks X must be caused because someone sustained Y doesn't entail that non-Y illustrates Z. Just because someone who suffered damage to frontal cortex lobe can't emote hate doesn't necessarily entail that the wholesome frontal cortex lobe is responsible for all emotions of hate. A correlation may or may not exist, but taking abnormal cases to instantiate normal cases is a spurious kind of inductive reasoning that permeates Damasio's "The Feeling of What Happens."

This kind of thinking leads to all kinds of problems. Because of curious abnormal instances, Damasio posits a need for three levels of emotion: primary, secondary, and background emotions. These distinction appear necessary because Damasio can detect in the laboratory of human psychological dysfunctions continue to operate in the presence of other human normal physiological functions. A correlation may or may not exist, but are abnormal cases instantiations of normal ones? Does the fact that certain physiological processes continue to operate in the absence of psychological ones indicate that the same qualitative emotion exists, but only on a different level? Either emotions exist in some sort of normal fashion, or otherwise produce examples from normal cases to substantiate theories of why a tripartite set of emotions is necessary. Why posit three levels of emotive activity, when one will clearly work (the scientific notion of parsimony)? 

This same example can be leveled against Damasio's three levels of self and consciousness because of a disorder known as associative agnosia. So instead of positing consciousness as consciousness, Damasio posits the Proto-Self, Core Self, and Autobiographical Self which doubles for core consciousness and extended consciousness after the proto-consciousness. Whether all three levels of consciousness and self are really necessary depends on two things: (1) On Damasio's injured or ill patients as counter-examples of what normative existence entails, and (2) whether such an architecture serves to explain and predict what science ordinarily sets out to establish. 

Let's just look at what Damasio's Proto-Self is intended to do. It is "a coherent collection of neural patterns which map, moment by moment, the state of the physical structure of the organism in its many dimensions" (p. 154). But by "neural patterns" he means only the "trigeminal nerve, the vagus complex, and the area postrema" (p. 155). Excluded are the "inferotemporal cortices, namely areas 20, 21, part of 37, 36, and 38" (p. 157). Let's take the obvious. What in the hell is Damasio describing? Maybe a neurochemist or neurobiologist knows what he's talking about, but I sure couldn't follow it. Second, we are told that it's not to be confused with homunculus. That's a relief. But whatever the Proto-Self is, "we are not conscious of the proto-self" (p. 174). So if we're not conscious of something nonconscious, how does it play a role in consciousness? By its physiological, not psychological, underpinnings? 

Besides confusion, incoherence egregiously pervades the narrative beginning with Chapter Six. I became a bit suspicious of all the distinct levels of emoting, thinking, selves, etc, very early on, but I wanted to give Damasio an opportunity to explains his polysemous biological brain. But by Chapter Six, the book figuratively fell apart for me. By then clarity lapsed into ambiguity, polysemy lapsed into confusion, and the "Feeling of What Happens" lost all its interest. Sadly, not recommended.

Postscript: A 2006 New Yorker article describes hemispherectomies, the removal of entire halves of the brain. The practice is widely used in different conditions, usually involving seizures. The remarkable (and totally anti-Damasio) thing is that these people not only survive these radical surgeries, they usually resume ordinary day-to-day functions. According to Damasio's exceptionalism, the return to "normalcy" should not or cannnot happen. If the "location" of brain function is X, the removal X removes the corresponding function, according to Damasio, and thus that part of the brain cannot allow "extremities" to function. Removing entire halves of brains seems pretty radical and that surgurical "victims" survive is itself incredible, that they resume "normal" functions blows Damasio's entire hypothesis of particular brain functions out of the water. How does Damasio account for the fact that the removal of the entire halves of brain does NOT impair function that he claims a tiny excision must and ordinarily would cause
