Unsurprisingly, the fine folks at Bradygames have a non-functional 'Contact Us' form.  If I put this product out, I, too, would want to make certain that I couldn't receive any feedback regarding it.  So here, instead, is the text of my complaint to them, so that you might spend your money more wisely than I did:

Greetings!

I am writing to you regarding the absolutely abysmal strategy guide that I purchased for the game Neverwinter Nights 2.  The Bradygames logo on it and the words "Official Strategy Guide" conspired to convince me that I should buy this thing - a treacherous act of deceit that I have yet to recover from.  The guide for "Bully" was fantastic, and I have tons of others from Final Fantasy X and X-2, GTA:San Andreas, Front Mission 4, etc.  I'm no stranger to Bradygames, and I'm usually more than satisfied with my purchases.  But in this case ... well, allow me to list my specific greivances:

1)  A huge percentage of the book's contents are directly from the instruction booklet.  This is unnecessary padding.  It can be safely assumed that I have the instruction booklet, or can download it.  I don't need to pay you guys for an extra copy.

2)  The 'strategies' are inane, and almost always boil down to "Keep your spellcasters back and have your tanks attack".  Any tip that might actually make a fight easier (that I couldn't have come up with myself without half a second's thought) is only given when they're absolutely necessary to triumph.  Ideas about where to lure enemies, trap locations (I'm especially upset that traps aren't pointed out at all in the maps).  The numbers of enemies present are kept intentionally vague, a la, "Oh, yeah, there's a few spiders over there."

3)  The enemy information is perfunctory at best.  Special attacks?  Special defenses?

4)  NOT A SINGLE SIDE QUEST IS COVERED!

5)  Information that's just missing.  Hey, did you know that there's an iron golem in the Ruins of Arvahn?  Well, thanks to reading your guide, I certainly didn't!

6)  And finally, the fact that item crafting is only covered in the most slipshod way.  You'd think that the fact that you can make your own magical items, armor and weapons would be quite a draw, wouldn't you?  It's a shame, then, that there isn't a SINGLE magical item crafting recipe covered in the entirety of this book!

Now, I'm a firm believer in adding something positive to any sort of negative criticism, but honest-to-god, the only thing I can come up with is "the pictures were nice".  This 'book' was a travesty, seriously, and from now on, I'm going to opt for Prima books whenever possible.  This is seriously inexcusable
