Luckily, I checked this book out of the library rather than buying it. I say "luckily" because this book isn't worth the money. Here's why...

On the front of the book it says:
  Now in FULL COLOR! Loaded with the latest Photoshop tips and techniques"

On the back of the book it says this:
  "Wait till you see what you can do with Photoshop CS2"

Photoshop CS2 for Dummies is not about HOW to do it, but about WHAT you can do with it. The cover of this book should have stated that it is a reference book out of fairness, rather than burying that fact in the prelude. Besides, aren't reference books suitable for people who already know what they are doing and have experience using the program?

This book didn't come with a CD or a website to go to for graphics and lessons. Words alone do nothing when you have to get your hands dirty. Would a pilots school be useful to you if you just sat in the classroom all day listening to the teacher on theory but not actually applying it by flying?

The first part (chapters 1-3) was way too basic, if not annoying. If you don't know how to use the mouse or what a menu is, what is color, what is cropping, etc. then you need to go back to Computer 101. 84 pages of  material more appropriate for a Windows dummies book, not a Photoshop book.

Part II (chapters 5-9) was not much better. Written in the same "manual-like" style, it lacked techniques and how-to. Its sad when you are reading a computer software book and don't even lift the mouse or use the program while reading. 

Part V consists of Chapters 18 to 20. Three chapters of tips and tricks. Total number of pages? Fourteen. Yep, you read that right. Fourteen out of 400 pages. Here's the first paragraph of Chapter 18:
  "I have literally thousands of Photoshop tips and tricks to share with you but space here allows for only ten."

What a cop out. Wasn't that what the subtitle of this book was all about? Latest tips and techniques? Further, the tips are very poorly represented and outdated. There are websites that offer more detail and blow by blow description as you apply each step of the tip. Instead, this book shows only the end effect - worthless when there are many steps in between to enforce that the user is doing things right and getting the right results.

Noticed that I didnt discuss Parts III to IV? It was a waste of time.
Reference manuals are suitable for experienced users, not for beginners or people looking to learn from scratch. The best way to learn a creative tool like Photoshop is to experiment and try as everything is a transformation from one rendering to another
