This will be a book to elicit much debate for years to come, but China is much bigger than Gordon Chang and I believe she will eventually prove Chang rather mistaken. Sure! Many things may be true on the surface, but do they really amount to much at all? One reviewer comments that Chang occasionally points to China's entrance to the WTO as being a coming problem, but rightly this reviewer argues that there is "no concrete mention of the sort of problems this will bring China". Three years or so on, and it doesn't seem to have brought very many problems as far as I can tell.

I am sure that Gordon Cheng speaks many truths (even if he failed to convince me of them), and what he said about Chinese banks and Internet firewalls was incredible, alarming, and observably accurate. There are many reviewers of this book who believe that it is all fact (often by merit of their considerable personal experience and studies) and I am not in a position to doubt this. Maybe a lot of what he says is right.

As I've been getting at, my problem with this book was that I felt its arguments were seldom substantiated. Heck! I have lived in China and I have argued with Chinese friends on countless occasions about the contradictions and weaknesses of their otherwise marvellous country. I thought this book would therefore give me all the ammunition I needed, and so I resent it for failing to do so. I had to admit to my Chinese girlfriend, a smart woman and a loyal communist, that the book gave me nothing to go on. This book is interesting for many reasons I'm sure - perhaps especially for those interested in debating the logic and validity behind Cheng's points and propositions - but if you've been China-watching for a while now, and if you seek substantiated arguments, then at best this is a book to borrow but not to buy!

Oh, and flicking through all the past reviews I notice two things. (1) By far the majority of reviewers criticise the book as I have (you can see this for yourself), but then, (2) only those who praise it consistently get high 'helpfulness' votes. Those with low opinions are lucky if 50 per cent of the voters appreciate their comments. What this says about people's hopes that this book will be a classic, I leave for you to consider. Go ahead, then, and click 'no' below. Make my day
