I found this book pretty disappointing (and I totally agree that a lot of these other "reviews" are very fishy). I was really prepared to like this book.  It looked clever and funny.  Out of a book like this, you don't expect much more than some juicy celebrity gossip and maybe some biting social commentary.  I was disappointed that I didn't really find either here.  The writer, to me, didn't seem very in touch with the scene she was covering.

The problem with covering people who are only "Four Percent Famous" in a tell-all book is that by the time the book is published a few years later, the people are probably Zero Percent famous and the gossip in the book is very dated and irrelevant.  This book basically contains "gossip" that anyone in New York, and probably even people outside of New York, has already heard and is probably no longer interested in.  

For example, the main focus of the book is a gossip about a character clearly meant to be Rocco diSpirito and how nervous he is about the opening of his restaurant.  Other "juicy" items include a big story on the closure of Moomba coming as a surprise to its investors.  I don't know too many people who still care about either of these things.  Even if they did, I am sure they would want a little bit more in-depth and interesting gossip about these subjects.  All the rest of the gossip in the book is similar to this - several years dated, not very juicy, and about people who most people would say are no longer that relevant on the New York scene.  

To me, the book was so tedious and obviously dated (constant references to Beyonce's "Crazy Right Now" didn't help the dated feeling) that I almost couldn't even get through it.  It just wasn't a great or juicy book.  The extra star is for the one bit of juicy gossip I liked in this book - that Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen say "Prunes" when having their photo taken.  That was funny.  More stuff like that and this book would have been a fun read.  

I feel bad writing this review, because I really wanted to like this book, but, especially in light of all the pretty "fishy" reviews here, I thought I had to warn people expecting something really juicy that this book didn't deliver.  Better, snarkier, more relevant fictionalized accounts of celebrity with some more interesting gossip can be found in the books Chore Whore (funny LA A-list gossip) and Glamorama (Bret Easton Ellis's account of the NY scene is years old but still way more relevant than this)
