I remember years ago hearing people say how Grant Morrison saved and revitalized the JLA. As a matter of fact I still hear people say this. Some consider his JLA stories to be groundbreaking epics of altered consciousness painted on a grand scale. His work on JLA was a very popular in terms of sales and fan reaction. But I have to ask am I the only one who finds this more than a little puzzling? I have now read all six JLA trades comprising Morrison's run on the title and I don't see what all the praise is about. I will grant that his use of the White Martians at the start of his run was an interesting idea but it didn't amount to much in the end. And that I see as a consistent trait with his JLA work. He seems to insist on working on a huge canvas when from what I can tell he is not much beyond paint by numbers. His stories are choppy and inconsistent leaving the reader wondering what's going on from moment to moment. In his stories he plays with our perceptions of dimension, time and consciousness with often little regard to characterization. I think he is more concerned with creating some grand catastrophe for his characters to battle than he is in making the story actually work for the reader.

This trade which reprints JLA 34-41 concerns the formation of a new Injustice Gang and the imminent threat of a 15 billion year old galaxy destroying doomsday weapon called Mageddon. This is yet another Grant Morrison tale that goes through the motions of giving you lots of action but very little story. We are told that this Mageddon is an unstoppable doomsday weapon that causes those of an evil nature to wage war against those of a good nature until all are corrupted by its influence. But before the JLA can face Mageddon they have to deal with the Injustice Gang. After bypassing the JLA's security measures the Injustice Gang decimates the Watchtower leaving the team in disarray. 

Now this brings us to the character of Prometheus. Morrison has described this character he created as "the anti-Batman." As we all know Batman trained himself to be a weapon against crime after seeing his parents killed by a criminal. Prometheus trained himself to be a weapon against law after seeing his criminal parents killed by the police. He created a helmet that feeds the skills and abilities of others he keeps stored on compact discs directly into his central nervous system. He confronts Oracle in her clock tower and offers to use his technology to restore her legs if she will betray the JLA. When she refuses he knocks her through the face of the clock leaving her hanging on to one of the clock hands. When we see Oracle again next issue she is safe and sound back in her wheelchair inside the clock tower but we never find out how this happened. I guess this happened in one of the Batman related books. It would have been nice if Morrison had made some mention of how she survived since she had no way to call for help. 

Despite having no weapons available Oracle somehow managed to damage Prometheus' helmet when he attacked her. During a previous fight the JLA had with Prometheus Batman had captured one of his helmets and ran tests on it to find out how it worked. When he returns to get his spare helmet he knocks out Huntress and is then confronted by Batman. During their fight Batman pulls out a device that rewrites the information on his disc leaving him helpless. Why would Batman even bother to fight him if he didn't have to? This doesn't sound like the master strategist Batman is supposed to be.

I would have given this trade a one star review if not for the Spectre story in issue 35. It concerns Hal Jordan trying to find a way to balance his role as The Spectre against his humanity. It's an interesting story that shows some members of the JLA could be open to judgement by the Spectre. J.M DeMatteis wrote this story. 

Having now read Morrison's work on JLA I'm not inclined to try anything else of his. If over reaching convoluted stories are your idea of good comics you may just like Grant Morrison's JLA. But if you prefer your comics have great stories and well written characters I suggest you buy Kurt Busiek's Avengers stories or his creator owned work in Astro City. You'll be glad you did.
