Well, if anything this was a decently written story, with good dialect and character detail. However, this story felt like it was going around in circles without any indication of ever ending. Grafton seems to have an idea of where she wants to go with this story but never really gets there.  

The story starts off with PI Kinsey Milhone in her office at night when she hears a knock on her door. She opens it to find Janice Kepler, mother of Lorna Kepler standing before her with the tale of her daughter's mysterious death. Not only this, but she also explains to Kinsey about how no one ever solved the murder because Lorna's body was left to decompose for ten months in her isolated cabin house. They talk for a while about the strange circumstances surrounding her daughter's death until Janice tells Kinsey about a pornographic video that was sent to her house after Lorna's death. This tape leads Kinsey on a wild goose chase of suspects in the red light district and gets her nowhere when it comes to turning over the real murderer. 

	Millhone dives even further and searches through the world of Lorna's day job where she uncovers a mysterious lead about an expensive, elaborate project which is angering several people a considerable amount. Kinsey also checks up on Lorna's family members, and with the exception of Janice, all seem to have a motive to murder her Lorna. 
	
Not being a fan of these types of novels, I decided to at least give it a chance but this story got me nowhere. By the middle of the novel I wanted to give up and skip to the end of the story, but when I got to the end I had to go back to the middle to figure out how everything ended. I stopped caring about the whole murder after so much more emphasis was placed on so much side stories and it seemed like Grafton did too. The ending left me with a strange feeling and I didn't know if the book had actually ended. All in all, it was just not the right kind of book for me but if you're a murder mystery fan, try any other of Grafton's alphabet themed novels besides this one
