Wow...where do I begin?
This book is so, unbelievably stereotypical from start to finish. With the exception of the final (and somewhat redeeming) "twist" at the end, I found the rest of the novel to be a huge waste of paper.
Malladi introduces us to a "typical" South Indian Brahmin family and is quick to throw in just about every negative issue you can think of when in need to criticize Indian culture. Dowry? Check. Chauvanistic alpha males? Got that too. Caste system? Arranged marriages? Abortions? Ethnocentricity? It's all here, in a convenient package for your reference. Honestly I'm surprised Malladi didn't throw in a depraved pedophilic uncle as well, just for good measure.
The story has an unlikeable protagonist in Priya, who comes across as quite pretentious. It's a little hard to believe that someone who has lived away from her country for a mere seven years begins to question little things like wearing a salwar kameez to a bazaar. I myself am a born and raised Canadian of Indian descent and when I visit my grandparents in India, I have absolutely no problem with "doing as the Romans do". Why? Because it's what is done in the country. And seeing as most people respect the values of every European and Middle Eastern nation they visit, there should be no reason why one should not respect the values of this nation as well. 
Priya goes on to fight with her mother. And then her grandparents. And then her aunt. And after this, miraculously, empowers every female in the house to "rebel" against the constrained, stifling, chauvanistic, primitive culture they exist in. Did I mention it was primitive?
The truth is that many (if not most) South Indian Brahmin families already have relatives married to Americans; in fact, it has reached the stage where a lot of the older generation are quite pleased to hear that their grandchildren have done so (and if not, for the most part they just accept it). Malladi insists on portraying a family that apparently exists in the Stone Ages when it comes to all the aforementioned issues. 
In addition, there is minimal, if any character development at all; Priya just traverses from issue to issue without attempting to see the other side of things. She does not mix the positive with the negative, or attempt to reconcile the reader with the fact that many of the issues faced in India are eerily similar to those in the US--caste discrimation? What about racial discrimination? Malladi could have done so much with this, especially considering that (spoiler ahead) Priya's fiance is black. She could have compared discrimination faced by lower castes to, say, Nick's experiences with discrimination (and I hate to disappoint you, but it still exists). In the world painted by Malladi, the main point of contrast is the "backward" ways of South Indians with the "inclusive, modern" ways of Americans (as represented by Priya). 
Now, that's not to say that the book doesn't have its fair share of laughs. I had to smile at the deference of Priya's father to her feisty mother on a few occasions. The mango recipes also added an interesting touch, as did the final revelation of Nick's ethnicity (to remind one that being American does not necessarily refer to being white, as obvious as it may seem). It's when Malladi attempts to tackle the "serious" issues that the book fails (which is, sadly, most of it). 
The bottom line? If you subscribe to the views voiced by Priya and enjoy one-sided arguments, you will probably love 'The Mango Season'. I suspect that this book will not particularly appeal to second-generation Indo-Canadians (or Americans) such as myself, however, since the issues being dealt with are so cliched and do not really apply to most of us (or our extended families in India for that matter). If you have a burning desire to read a book by an Indian author however, I would probably recommend 'The Namesake' by Jhumpa Lahiri. Though it does not tackle exciting topics such as dowries and beatings, it is a poignant look at the life of a Bengali family and the issues they face. Lahiri's prose is wonderful too. 
Better yet, I would recommend reading a book on Indian culture and understanding the roots of "primitive" traditions before suffering books such as 'The Mango Season'.
