Let me say that the Dutch is an excellent, but risky, system that should appeal to people who like to "burn their pants" early. In the dutch, there is no such thing as as a loss that is based on one static factor. All losses are SLAUGHTERS. It doesn't matter if your on the white side or the black side. The reason I give this book 1 star is because the Classical Dutch is not the best system to play. When you play the dutch, you want the full point. The Classical dutch doesn't do that. It usually leads to quiet positions where you have good chances in the endgame. Trust me, I know what I'm talking about. That leaves to other systems. The Stonewall Dutch and The Leningrad Dutch. The Stonewall is OK. Black is extremely solid and his defense is hard to break down. But the one major problem with it is that there are gaping holes in blacks position, so white usually has the better chances. Now we have the Leningrad. This it it! This system is the most riskiest, newest, and most blood thirstiest system in the dutch. Both sides have to play on there toes , as one slip could cost the game for either side. Endgames are hardly never reached in this sytem for game usually last 30 moves. You have to be on your top at tactics. I wouldn't recommend weak players to play the dutch and especially the leningrad. However, if you are tacticaly good and accurate with your moves and love blood thirsty battles and hate endgames. Then I seriously recommend you get the book "The Dutch for the Attacking Player" by Steffen Pedersen. It provides you with a full repertoire against any thing that white can throw at you using the Leningrad system. All of whites major replies and sidelines are covered in detail with complete games and provides the logic behind the moves. But let me remind you.... The Leningrad is extremely risky. I hope this review has aided you in which system to play. Keep in mind that this is my opinian. If you like a rock-solid wall of pawns then play the Stonewall. If you like endgames and quiet play, then play the Classical dutch by all means. If you decide to play the Stonewall, please keep in mind the gaping holes you are letting white have
