This book focuses on Amanda Starkey, a young nurse who has suffered a breakdown and was sent home by her boss so she could get her act together. Amanda returns to her family home in Wisconsin to live with her sister, Mattie, and Mattie's daughter, Ruth. Mattie's husband, Carl, is off fighting in France during WWI.

The sisters are very close, and so Mattie is of course thrilled to have her sister back in her life on a daily basis again. They begin to embark on a new aspect of their life together, while Mattie anxiously waits for her husband's return from the war.

Then, one winter night, tragedy strikes, and Mattie ends up drowning in the nearby lake. Her young daughter, Ruth, almost ends up drowning as well, but is rescued in the nick of time. 

Not long after Mattie's death, Carl returns from the war, wounded. He is eager to see his wife, not realizing that she has died. 

Amanda, who has never liked Carl, hopes that he will decide to leave again almost as soon as he'd returned home. She figures him for the sort to not want to raise a child alone, and each day waits for him to leave, thereby making her Ruth's sole caretaker. Yet much to her annoyance, he manages to get his bearings again and remains a fixture in both hers and Ruth's life.

At the same time, Amanda struggles with inner demons, both because of what happened to her sister, and because of what happened in her life prior to returning home, which you eventually learn about. She is then sent to a sanatorium and Carl is left to care for his daughter on his own. However, he founders, and ends up relying on a second cousin (Hilda) for her grudging help. 

This new upheaval causes Ruth to regress a great deal, and she stops talking and acts out by breaking things in the house and being impossible to toilet train and deal with overall. In a funny turn of events, Ruth manages to embarrass Hilda enough so that she leaves. Carl, in an act of desperation, takes Ruth with him on one of his many visits to see Amanda, in the hope that it will spark a desire in her to get well once and for all. It works, and a year after having been committed, Amanda returns home.

The rest of the story vacillates between what really happened the night Mattie drowned, and what is happening in Amanda and Ruth's life afterwards. In the first part of the book, Ruth ages from about 3-5. When the second part begins, she is already 11. I felt that was somewhat abrupt, and it took me a few pages to realize how much time had passed, as there wasn't anything to indicate that this had happened. 

The book continued to bounce around a lot from this point on, between reminiscences of the past and what was actually happening to the characters months or years down the line. It got a little annoying at times to have to figure out where exactly the next installation was starting out. Also, the book jacket said the story was told from several of the main character's points of view, but the only ones you really hear from are Ruth and Amanda. 

I was pretty disappointed by the end of the story. The book starts out intriguing and makes you wonder if Amanda literally went off the deep end after all and killed her sister, or if it was in fact an accidental drowning. But by about halfway through, the facts become clear and are easy to interpret. Still, I hoped maybe I was wrong and the ending would surprise me after all. It didn't.

Carl also disappears about halfway through the book. It's due to a job he takes, but it felt like he was written out of the story because the author ran out of use for him, or wasn't sure what to do with him after a certain point. She spent a lot of time focusing on Carl's desire to learn about the truth of his wife's death. 

As it was, he only found out part of the truth, and that was according to what Amanda got him to believe. Nevertheless, Carl accepted it at face value and after that he accepted his wife's fate. He was then written out of the story. I didn't really like that aspect of things and didn't think it meshed with everything else that was happening. Even though he wasn't a strong character in general, he's one of the characters I actually liked. Amanda wasn't that likeable at all, and was a pretty cold person who was obsessed with Ruth and still obsessed with the past. Ruth was somewhat pliable and easily molded to her aunt's bidding, even though she made some feeble attempts to be her own person.

I don't know if I'd read this author again. But I managed to find this book for $1.. and would say it was worth it and I'm glad I didn't pay full price for it, either on here or in a bookstore
