i was inexperienced enough to waste my pocket money on this dam book. i went into the bookstore and the only thing attractive about this book is its cover. i automatically bought this book and made one of my biggest mistakes this year. 
 the book is slow, and all, ALL, the ONLY thing the book talked about is who married who and had kids, and four uncles married and three of them divorced, married again, some romance that i bet many people find depressing. 
 my mom made me read this last night, and i just could not keep up, i have seen many reviews, whether positive or negative, cannot hide the fact that the book is hard-to-keep-up, complicated, and confusing. Mrs. Quidlen is a newspaper reporter, and she definitely need to cut out a load of useless scenes and details when writing a novel.
 I anounce to every reviewers of this book, to the people who read this book only cuz their school made them to, to not lie and betray your inner feelings about this book, to the boys i suggest they let out their inner anger and frustration inside when writing a report and not let some sexy paragraphs in the book make you feel that the book is &quot;good.&quot; To the girls, i dont know what to say to the girls, i have many reviews of this book, and the girls had always gave the book a high score. maybe girls enjoyed flat family and friends relationships more than guys do. and i accept that.
 here is this basic profile of this book i have made up, i tried to make them as truthful as to anybody any sex as possible.
 
 |plot- no plot, confusing
 |humor- very rare, about 20 pages any funny moments appear.
 |age- teen to adult
 |dialog/narration- huge continous chunks of narration that sometimes seemed never-ending, then huge chunks of continous dialogs.
 |mood- sad, with occasional depressive humor.
 |sex- definitely a girl's book.
 |details- many useless details such as a scar on someone's body without the description of where the scar is or how did he get that scar, with no details that moves the story forward such as the setting, the main character's age, and personalities, the reader has to figure out the personality of each character by reading their dialogs.
 |style- Anna Quidlen's own unique and strange style.
 
 i will end my review here by stressing the fact that future readers must express their real, deep feeling about this book, regardless of the author's other books, and other people's feelings. write only about what YOU feel and what you feel ONLY.

