This is a difficult novel to review as it is really three intertwined novellas.  The book is divided into three sections, and the story and the action are very different in each of the three.  This is a tale of the discovery by a team of archaeologists of an ancient Mycaenaen artifact of immense power.  The first part of the story centers around the efforts of the protagonists to smuggle out the unknown artifact.  The explanation developed by Benford here is totally implausible.  The protagonists are trying to steal an artifact (national treasure really) from its country of origin (Greece) during a coup/civil war for no better reason than to prevent it from falling into the hands of a man who made an inappropriate pass at the main character.  A poorly justified, not particularly well written escape/evasion story.  After having successfully absconded with it to Boston, MA, they then try to discover what it is.  This section is, in my opinion, outstanding, and may, for certain readers, more than justify the cost of the book.  Benford writes with incredible accuracy about Cambridge, about MIT and BU, and about how a scientific investigation would proceed if something like this were actually found.  I agree though with many of the negative reviewers that Benford (a physicist himself) describes the object and its physics in too much detail for the average reader.  This level of detail, while of interest to other physicists, detracts from the story for most readers.  The process of investigation into the properties of the artifact by the physicists as described by Benford is, however, absolutely realistic and outstanding, as is his descriptions of the culture and bureaucracy of the Boston universities.  If you want to understand how scientists would study such an object in a science fiction setting, this is among the best that has been written. In the third section, they try to recover the artifact after it was stolen by the baddie and returned to Greece.  The third section is totally brainless, a mindless `let's send the commandos in and blow everything up' story.  Overall, Benford had a good idea with this novel, but it was poorly executed on several levels, and I would not recommend spending your money on this book with the caveat above
