As the title says the book is rife with Catholic apologetics.  Catholicism is the touchstone used to compare pretty much every belief and "ism" to (i.e. protestantism, arianism, etc...) This review is not to make a case for or against Catholicism, but to demonstrate the ludicrous "scholarship" of this work, as opposed to what one would expect from any work claiming to be a "dictionary."  Instead of spending it's words on the historical aspects/development of a given belief, the entries are dominated by apologias for, or against, said belief from the Catholic point of view.  This behavior is exemplified in the treatment of the Trinity doctrine entry, and oddly, a venomous attack on Jehovah's Witnesses  (while giving fair accounts to pretty much every modern religious movement that Catholicism generally deems: "heretical.").

The Trinity:  More than half of the entry is dedicated to exegesis of New Testament passages according to modern Trinitarian thought following the claim that (pg. 1394): "Though the word 'Trinity'.. is not found in Scripture, the conception is there both implicitly and explicitly."  Also, the very first sentence of the entry calls the Trinity doctrine: "The central dogma of Christian theology", however, in providing an argument, instead of historical facts, the work relegates itself to the category of apologetics, not scholarship.  As an argument, it naturally downplays the significance of the opposing viewpoints, in this case: the "heresy" of Subordinationism (a topic that doesn't even receive it's own entry in this "dictionary"!), its proponents, Gnosticism, and the prevalent Arianism.  The author violates the context of the historical development of what it calls "the central dogma of Christian theology" by glossing over centuries of the doctrines' development;  even going so far as to label some of the defenders and propagators (pre-Nicea) of early Trinitarian thought: "unorthodox" (despite the fact that "orthodoxy" hadn't been established yet). (pg. 1394 - "Where the doctrine was elaborated, as e.g. in the writings of the Apologists, the language remained on the whole indefinite, and from a later standpoint, was even partly unorthodox.  Sometimes it was not free from a certain subordinationism..")  

On Christian Science (pg. 279): "Its teaching on the unreality of matter, sin, and suffering conflicts with the Biblical doctrines of the Creation, Fall, and Redemption."  The author fails to note that this is opinion (regardless if accurate or not).

Jehovah's Witnesses (pg. 729): "This Adventist teaching was developed by his successor, J.F. Rutherford on lines professedly subversive of civil authority...  They can hardly be regarded as a religious society..", "Jehovah's Witnesses is an organization with printing establishments all over the world.  They carry on an effective propaganda among an uncritical public and attract esp. the dissatisfied elements of society by preaching hatred of all existing institutions."  Of the founder, Charles Taze Russel, the author again levels the charge of subversive teachings, and again makes the implication that Witnesses are civically disloyal anarchists (pg. 1210): "His teaching... lends itself to political propaganda of a subversive type...  His ideas were developed in a still more anarchist direction by J.F. Rutherford."  

Again, regardless if you hold the assertions made to be true, or not, the conclusion is unequivocally clear.  I don't recommend spending more than 5$ on this book (including shipping).  I gave it 1 star (because I can't give it zero), despite it's thoroughly un-scholastic nature, it is a good resource to have handy if you want to quickly know the dates of certain events  (or if you need to prop up a table leg, or if you need a highly absorbent coaster).  DO NOT expect nuanced, objective, comprehensive entries on any subject in this work (i.e. a DICTIONARY!).  EXPECT argumentative, judgmental prose, and a total lack of objectivity.
