After years of hearing about what a seminal work this is, I finally broke down and bought a (used) copy.  I expected something like the anti-Simon, an exhaustive documentation of how we are inevitably headed toward doom and collapse unless the government steps in to intervene with specific recommendations.  I was extremely surprised to find that this book is nothing more than a long description of the authors' computer model!  Is that it?!  Apparently so.

The authors assembled a computer model of all human activity and natural science, complete with feedback, time delay, and other parameters (yeah, they really present it that way!).  Then they ran it through a computer and found what they expected - quite a surprise, eh?  Then they tweak on the basic model and find that almost nothing leads to a rosy scenario.  Humanity is going to collapse by 2100, and there is nothing we can do about it.  Well, almost nothing.  Apparently, if we stop procreating, stop economic growth, and spread the existing wealth evenly, everything will be ... well, it won't be great, but it will be "okay", sorta like the warehousing activity that we call public "schooling".  I think there is a book that describes the resulting society, ... I believe it was called _Anthem_.

I gave the book a couple of stars because of its canonical status, but it certainly doesn't deserve the attention it has gotten.  A major flaw is that they don't describe the model they use in any significant detail to allow you to run the numbers yourself (they refer you to another article, and you can find the original model on the internet if you're perseverent enough).  If someone is throwing this into your face as proof that we are headed to certain disaster, fear not.  There simply isn't enough substance here, some of the information and assumptions are dated, and you can certainly point out a few holes in their model assumptions that tend to undo their long-term analysis.  If you are thinking about using this to support your world view, please reconsider.  Try something a little more grounded in reality, without the breathless hype, like any environmental economics book by Tom Tietenberg
