Long ago, humans tended to think of people as categorized into four basic temperaments: the Artisan, the Guardian, the Idealist, and the Rational.  This theory has become lost in the shuffle of modern philosophies, which essentially state that if you push someone hard enough in the right direction, he or she will ultimately go there.  Redirecting us to this claim of temperaments serves as the driving force of Please Understand Me II, and to that effect, Keirsey succeeds.

Some discredit his work on the grounds that it compartmentalizes people and thus confines their identities; in truth, I think it does the opposite.  The first time you read through this book and allow it to describe who you really are, you may experience deep satisfaction, if not all-out extasy.  You realize that you are who you are, no more and no less, and that is that.  It's truly a liberating experience to find out that so many of the personal attributes that many people have criticized you for, you owe nobody an apology for.  Whether or not people understand you, you may indeed be yourself and not act according to some other identity.

But then you take a second look at the book, and you start to discover a sobering truth: You realize that while Keirsey calls Guardians and Idealists on the floor for their weaknesses, he lets Rationals and especially Artisans off the hook.  This bias results in a substantial number of strawmen arguments.  For example, his claims that "ESFP's haven't a mean bone in their body," and that Guardians always believe that car drivers should use their turn signals even when no other cars are around, are simply false.  The chapter on romance, while quite critical of Idealists, makes an all-out defense of Rationals' mistakes.  Although Please Understand Me II goes into great detail about how Rationals drive for efficiency and Artisans drive for effectiveness, he makes no mention as to what the corresponding goals of Idealists and Guardians are.

This personal slant of his is not right, it isn't fair, and it should have been caught.  Other personality works such as the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and Tieger-Tieger's Do What You Are, while not as enlightening as Please Understand Me II, were obviously subject to some kind of peer review that this book is in dire need of.  Granted it may sound harsh to judge a book for one simple mistake, but believe me, this bias is more than a simple mistake; it truly sticks out like a sore thumb.  Yes, it is that bad.

Don't get me wrong, I really wanted to give this book 5 stars.  But I'm doing a disservice to you if I tell you that this book is a work of art, because although this may be true, the portrait has a very ugly stain on it.  I'll give this book a second star for its potential, but sadly, that's about as far as Please Understand Me II goes
