"Our Kind," Kate Walbert's novel-in-stories about the psychological malaise afflicting women who became adults in the 1950s and who are now confronting life in their 60s, never achieves its intriguing premise.  Walbert's individual stories lack coherence; her prose tends to be overwritten, precious or overly obscure; her characters rarely invite sympathy or compassion, much less understanding.  Though Walbert intends "Our Kind" to provide insight into the genuine existential dilemmas aging women experience, the novel is really little more than a litany of sorror that poor little rich girls  --  now women  -- encounter.

Each character, whether she be physically disabled, ditzy, an artist, a widow, cancer-stricken, jaded or booze-addled, has been "led down a primrose lane, then abandoned somewhere near the carp pond."  Forsaking intellectual aspirations and career possibilities contemporary women now presume as birthrights, these erudite, Smith-educated, polished (like prized apples) and repressed (orgasm-starved) characters chose or had chosen for them a life of taking "dictation from war heroes in grey suits."  Their college curriculum consisted of the "3 G's:  Grace, Grooming and Grammar.  Some of us dropped out before Grace."  They did everthing their men asked them to:  be homemakers, silent hostesses, acquiescent sexual partners and mothers.  Yet, somewhere, by middle age, the wheels had fallen off.  The women of "Our Kind" keen with pain and betrayal.

Their collective voices form a chorus of sorrow and lament, not the presupposed aria of joy, contentment and fulfillment they had envisioned hearing.  "Our Kind" is a filled with an ineluctable sadness and no small amount of unresolved bitterness.  The women, budding with excitement in their 20s, now have gone to seed.  And what a disparate assortment of seeds...hair greying, unspoken anger bubbling over, regrets denouncing false hopes.  Their loneliness slaps them daily across their reconstructed faces.

Each character, because of Walbert's preculiar, ill-chosen style, never fully articulates her angst.  Yet, we can imagine them in their earlier lives, seated at their elegantly-arranged dinner tables, designing and executing parties to further their husands' careers, painfully aware that genuine conversations (like those savored with their professors in the Seven Sister Colleges) will never involve them.  Their very lives are in perpetual deferment.

All the elements for significant story telling are here.  Walbert's bon-mots, sprinkled at the end of each chapter ("our hearts worn down by the slow drumming of blood," "we are...a school of fish too old to spawn but desperate to swim back upstream"), indicate a writer with great talent.  Yet, "Our Kind" disappoints.  Its structure, lack of narrative drive and choice of affluent, suburban, east-coast women (far removed from most American women's experiences) doom to the novel to be as satisfying as a furtive tryst with a hired pool boy
