When it is all said and done about Clinton's Legacy, Gene Lyons has assured himself a place in the Presidential Library by writing such a book. The book does point out several areas that Clinton haters seldom want to  see or believe. For example, regardless how you feel about Bill, you must  admire his ability to not only survive a sad, sordid and disadvantage  childhood but achieved his goals in education, public service and politics.  He did so on his own initiative, using and abusing close friends who also  did the same to him, and focusing on saying anything at anytime that could  help him at that time. Whitewater was a shady inside financial political  deal, made among many politicians with profiteers when the Saving and Loan  sector was deregulated, not just in Arkansas but throughout the country. It  was denied during the campaign and avoided by a phony accounting report  that was needed in the primaries, but proved to be less than accurate after  Clinton was elected president. On one hand, two of Clinton's friends became  upset when the deal went south and felt Clinton abandoned them when he  became president. Now did those friends feel betrayed by Clinton and wanted  to bring him down as the book points out? The author has made a great case  saying so and I believe him. On the other hand, was it the silence of  others who refused to answer pivotal questions whether such meetings with  Clinton took place? This would lead back to the president when he was a  governor and would show he plotted and scheme with them? No doubt about it,  their silence saved this president. Therefore, in the book Gene Lyons wants  us to believe the former but some facts clearly show an investigation was  needed and reported properly by the media contrary to the author's  CONclusions. Either way, 17 convictions including the Solicitor General's  convictions are facts not fiction. The author has been trying to apologize  and justify Clinton's behavior since the impeachment. In the end, no book  using revisionists history is going to exonerate this president's actions  prior to and during the first four years of his presidency that  accomplished more than people expected. At the same time, no book can  change the fact that president Clinton was able to avoid impeachment for  many acts that even his party said can be punishable after these last four  years of absolutely few accomplishments whatsoever. No friend or enemy of  the Clintons' have been able to help or hurt the Clintons' more so than  themselves as well as this book that lives off of a public's poor memory.  The only problem is, when you view the Clinton presidency even after  Whitewater, it is one few can be proud of and the only fool is the one who  claims it had made up scandals to bring them down. Sorry, they did it all  by themselves and still are doing it, to the dismay of the many who support  them, and frustration of those would destroy them. The book is worth  reading to provide an overall view of the Clintons' but it can't change  history
