As Rothman, ruefully notes in her book there have been studies of medicine from the perspective of the doctor and from the perspective of the disease but not from the perspective of the patient. 

Thus, Dr. Rothman sets out to do "a history of patienthood" and how being a patient changed over the course of time with respect to one single disease, TB or Consumption.

The problem is that her original sources are diaries, mainly of women but not exclusively. That by and of itself limits her subjects overwhelmingly to upper crust and educated NE families by and large. Overwhelmingly these are the well-off, relatively speaking. Theretofore, all of Rothman's democratic impulses are naturally very limited. The whole thrust of thesis is thus quite silly. This is not a history truly of patienthood, but of patienthood of the wealthy - of a small well-to-do segment of society. 

What was it truly like to a patient with TB among the indigent and the poor? Rothman cannot really say for these people kept no diaries and if they did they were certainly not preserved a hundred and fifty years later in some library archives waiting for her to come find them.

Rothman gives us only the narrowest slice of what it means to be a patient.

Furthermore, this is a telling of history through anecdote. So she takes one, two, maybe 3 dozen diaries and summarizes what the people say in them. Who cares! To say these 3 dozen people are a representative sample (even among the upper crust educated elite of society) is downright silly. 

It would be like someone reading 3 dozen blogs today on the net and saying they have a general sense of what society was thinking of the Iraq war. Who actually spends their time writing a blog? What is the motivation of those who write the blog? By definition, they are the people with extreme views, angry, disenchanted, frustrated, opinionated jerks. Represenative of nothing. 

And this all leaves out the fact that we still have no clue as to biased selection of diaries that Rothman chose, potentially only using the one's that made her point (or only quoting passages from the diaries that support her thesis).

This is not history. This is not fact-telling. This is historical fiction writing.

If you want to understand disease read the work of Robert Fogel, Nobel Prize winning cliometrician. If you want to read historical fiction, go read Barbara Tuchman or Leon Uris. 

This is just bad fiction with labored dense writing posing as history.
