A friend of mine loaned me Sidetracked Home Executives about 15 years ago. I LOVED that book and it changed my life. I lost that book and decided to buy it again, a couple weeks ago, along with Get Your Act Together. Being a huge fan of their style and humor, I couldn't wait to see how Pam and Peggy revamped the card file system. Boy was I disappointed. They are starting to sound more and more like the B.O.'s (born organized) that they claim not to be!

They talked, in the first book about how pointless is was for the born disorganized to make lists and now the new card file system is nothing more than cards filled with lists! There is something really satisfying in putting one job per card and being able to move it to its next spot because it was done. I got a lot out of that system. However, by putting in all these little lists on the new cards, I have to remember to write whether it was done or skipped.... It seems like more of a hassle to me. And then I can't just move the card to the next day (if it was daily) because so many of the other jobs on the card were done. 

There isn't the humor of Sidetracked Home Executives and it wasn't insightful either. It sounded like almost every other organization book out there.

Now, for those of you who haven't read the first book (now 20 some odd years old) this could very well work for you. If you've read Sidetracked Home Executives and have followed *that* card file system, this system might still work for you but I would venture to say you'll still go back to the old system. I guess there is always the possibility that the 2 systems could be worked together. I'm still trying to figure out if I can do that in any way shape or form...so this Get Your Act Together book won't have been a complete waste.

I think the "Slob Sisters" should go back and re-read their own first book to remind themselves of what it was like to be disorganized. They've been organized too long. They can't seem to relate as well to the disorganized anymore. They even have a day planner out for almost $100.00 that is for nothing *but* making lists. 

Anyway, long story short...or not, I think the old system is the best and this book doesn't have near the information or inspiration of the first. I could relate to them in Sidetracked Home Executives but they don't seem to relate to the born disorganized anymore. Needless to say, I won't be buying any of the other books, tapes, organizers or other things they sell on their website. The first is the best for me. I can see how it could work for some. Please understand this is only my opinion. :
