This book will probably be enjoyed for those that feel baffled or awed at the conceptual and verbal exuberance of postmodern theory (and their theorists' chutzpah), or looking for soothing, assuring, and easy answers to the difficult (sometimes unnecessarily difficult) questions and challenges posed by this cultural movement. 

The author is off to a bad start when he locates the theoretical origins of postmodernity in the thought of Jacques Derrida. Postmodernity is a critical and cultural trend with a strong semiotic, quotational, de-centralizing component in relation to "master narratives" like Western liberalism, Marxism, Freudianism, Nazism, positivism, literary modernism, while Derrida's early work aimed to unsettle the canonical foundations of traditional Western metaphysics. Although Derrida's later work often dovetails with the concerns of many postmodern writers, artists, and critics, it is plain wrong to locate in this philosopher's discourse the conceptual foundations of postmodernity. Another "faux pas" by Butler is to state that Wittgenstein had already solved the philosophical questions posed by Derrida. Therefore, Butler implies that every concern posed by postmodernity had already found its philosophical resolution decades ago.

Butler's fallacious logic may be explained in that, like Fredric Jameson, he seems to believe that the pinnacle of Western culture is to be found in Modernism and its later following, and that postmodernity is merely a corrupt by-product of Modernism. While it is true that Butler offers a few valuable criticisms of postmodernity, I think that he chose rather easy (and forgettable) targets. In general, he has avoided the major postmodern writers, architects or photographers, choosing to focus on bells and whistles instead: fads, gimmicks, shock performances are the objects of the author's condescension. Maybe Oxford UP had a lapse of judgment when asking Butler to introduce readers to something that he obviously despises. Furthermore, Butler's lack of knowledge of anything postmodern beyond the restricted (and restrictive) boundaries of Anglo-Saxon culture make this choice all the more regrettable.

I would recommend a more worthwhile introduction to postmodernism, like Jencks's _What is postmodernism?_, Lyotard's _The postmodern explained to children_, Harvey's _The Condition of Postmodernity_, or Waugh's excellent reader on postmodernism. By all means avoid this book unless your position is already POSTMODERNISM = BAD
