My mother recently ordered this book by Mr. Chopra and was urging me to read it. She spoke very highly of it and told me that he used science to prove God and such, etc. Allow me to be upfront. I am a skeptic, and a firm Atheist. I do not believe in the backward illogical concept of God that most religion would scare you to believe in. But I decided to keep an open mind, as I always do, and I read Mr. Chopra's "How To Know God" from cover to cover. 

First of all, Mr. Chopra does not speak of the God that most religions speak of. He in fact urges the reader to rethink their concept of God, the first chapter is called "A Real and Useful God". Here Mr. Chopra describes a God that all of us can reach directly, and he also describes most people's general view of God and how he is a supposedly unattainable God until death...etc. He then devises 7 Stages of God, that match our human emotions and says there is a God for each stage. He continues to say that whenever we feel this or that, we are experiencing the God of that stage. This is where I begin to have a problem. 

Mr. Chopra begins this book with his own concept of God, that is neither supported by scientific evidence or any sort of rational thought at all. I was unable to get anything out of the following pages because I could not help wondering why I was not given any evidence into Mr. Chopra's thought process. He simply creates his own idea and flies with it, assuming the reader will just go along with it and not apply any sort of thought. This is weak and misleading. But I continued to read. He then begins to talk about three versions of reality, the material reality (the material world), virtual reality, and quantum reality (God's world outside of space-time). He then says that there are many arguments in the material world against God, but none of these can be applied because God is not in the material reality, he is in the Quantum reality. Absolute garbage! Pure assumption! I was outraged by this statement, and saw it as a poor way of denying the logical and rational arguments against God. Mr. Chopra once again maintains excellent continuity by not supporting his claims with any sort of scientific evidence. How can he say that God is in a different reality? What makes him think God isn't in the same reality that we are in? How does he know there is a virtual reality? These so-called "realities" seem very fabricated to me. They are a clever way of escaping arguments against God, if you put God outside of this world then you can't apply any arguments from our reality to his, according to Chopra. I do not buy this, and feel sorry for anyone who does. I am impressed though. That is a clever trick, and nothing more than a trick. Mr. Chopra seems to be exhibiting "wishful thinking" here. He acknowledges that the mind is in search of God and needs God (with scientifc evidence), I believe Chopra's mind is just like all other minds and wants to justify God and find God, so he will by all means attempt to do that. He wishes for there to be a God, and so there will be. He can change his reality as he pleases. This sort of wishful thinking is dangerous when explaning or proving a point because it makes Mr. Chopra incredibly biased and unreliable. 

While reading this book in its early pages I was almost assured that Mr. Chopra was speaking of God in a purely metaphorical sense, but I later found (much to my disappointment) that he was speaking of God in a very real and literal sense. Many will claim that Chopra uses "science" and "quantum physics" to explain God and how we can reach him, but that is a misconception and perversion of the truth. Mr. Chopra does indeed make clever points using theories and stories involving quantum physics, but they do not relate directly to the existence of God, or our ability to reach him. They seem to just be random tidbits Chopra throws in so he can say he proved God and our ability to reach him with "science." It is an absolute mockery. 

I did find Mr. Chopra's ending chapters on the paranormal (telepathy, esp, clairvoyance, synchronicity) to be interesting, but once again not supported by anything and pure wishful thinking. Mr. Chopra just plays the God card everytime he is faced with a dilemma that is unexplainable or difficult to understand. The God card in this case is more like a Joker, it serves no purpose and is just a laugh. 

Mr. Chopra does have good stories to tell, but they serve no relevance to God or finding him. His writing is not bad, but it is also not very good. I find Mr. Chopra to be a very weak thinker who ignores all rational arguments and ways of logic and reason to further exonerate his wishful thinking and enforce the idea of God in his reality. If you are interesting in a book relating Science and Spirituality I would recommend Amit Goswami's "The Self-Aware Universe". I do not recommend this book at all, especially to other skeptics. Mr. Chopra not only seems to have a rather negative and close minded view of skeptics but he completely shuts them out and addresses them in a rude manner.  I have kept an open mind in reading this book, but Mr. Chopra has not, in fact he hasn't shown much evidence of an intelligent "mind" at all. 

This book receives two stars just for effort and a few interesting tidbits.
