In the 70's and 80's Sidney Sheldon wrote a number of entertaining potboilers full of beguiling plot twists and action.  He was never a great writer, but in books such as If Tomorrow Comes, Master of the Game, Other Side of Midnight, and Rage of Angels, he manage to write stories with attention to detail, make the reader care for the characters and provide a sheen of plausibility to the events of the story.

In the 90's Sheldon really began to fall off. He was obviously getting older and not keeping up with what was going on. He still retained his ability to keep the story moving and the reader engaged to find out what happened next, but whatever attention he paid to character development, relationships and writing halfway decent dialogue seem to disappear book by book until quite frankly he became a purveyor of ludricous tales.

Are You Afraid of the Dark is Sheldon's final novel.  It's a far fetched tale of an evil think tank President who conjures up a plan to control the world's weather. Why? Because he's pure evil.  That's all.  A bunch of people are killed.  Two of the dead men's widows team up to try to find out what's going on and spend most of the book escaping assasination attempts.  The whole book is really silly with stilted dialogue and implausible action and a blithe disregard to reality.  I was laughing at much of the action in the book, particularily the flashback scene where one of the woman's husbands rhapsodizes about his wife's snoring.

Still the book is quaintly entertaining. Sheldon grabs your attention and you can't put it down until it's over. Perhaps it was because I just wanted to know how ludricous the story would become, but Sheldon possessed a talent. And despite some of the trashy and gratuitous sex and violence scenes, there's a certain sweetness to the book.  The heroines are women who want to be loved and in the flashbacks recalling their courtship, Sheldon does a decent job of capturing the emotional uncertainty of the early stages of a relationship. It's a shame he couldn't write with the same sensitivity and nuance throughout the book as it would make the reader really care about the heroines; in the end, his emphasis on moving the far fetched and ludricous plot along renders all his characters as cardboard.  In the end, Sheldon may have been wise to retire in the early 90's but he kept on writing.  Ultimately the fault lies with his publisher and editor who allowed him to churn out such lazy work.  His sales fell off over the last 10 years of his life and it was because it appeared no one took him aside and said he could do better.  For a taste of Sheldon's better work, read If Tommorow Comes or Rage of Angels. But if you are looking for a book that will make you laugh and pass the time away on a trip, Are You Afraid of the Dark will do the job
