I picked this book up because I was running out of decent mystery novels, and figured I was primed to love it given my obsession with the outdoors as well as mysteries. 

It only gets two stars because I actually made it through.
And I only got through it because I had nothing else to read. 


I know Nevada Barr is a "name," and judging by the number of her books stocked in my local bookstore, a popular one. But I could list the things that are wrong with her writing for...well, let's just say more space than Amazon is going to give me for this review. Her prose is bad. Her imagery is unlively (and if you're going to write about a landscape like Anna Pigeon's, you sure as hell ought to be able to write it). Her characters range from the merely flat to the utterly ridiculous (Anna's romantic progression through this book: "Oh, I am widowed and my life will never be the same without my husband" to "Oh, it might be fun to be a lesbian" [an out-of-the-blue idea the author never bothers to resolve] to "Let me have a fling with this random man, who, by the way, has as much character as a cardboard cut-out"). 

Worst of all, she cheats. I guess mystery writers don't have an official code, but according to the Dorothy L Sayers model, Thou Shalt Not Give the Detective Clues Not Given To The Reader. A mystery novel is no fun if the puzzle isn't there for you too. Of course, if Nevada Barr had given us all the evidence she gives Anna Pigeon, there wouldn't be a mystery to have a novel about. Her cheating merely covers up her inability to produce an engaging and puzzling plot. 

This was a pathetically sub-par book for the amount of attention it and its sequels have received. If you're looking for an amazing female detective, check out Laurie R King's two series, one about Sherlock Holmes' feminist partner Mary Russell (as unlikely as it sounds, and more than good enough to make up for it), and the other about San Francisco cop Kate Martinelli. If you want a book about living in the desert, I'd suggest Edward Abbey's _Desert Solitaire_ (it even has a brief appearance by a dead body), or his hilarious eco-terrorist adventure _The Monkey Wrench Gang_. 

Anything but this
