Brenda Maddox' ROSALIND FRANKLIN: THE DARK LADY OF DNA and ROSALIND FRANKLIN AND DNA by Anne Sayre both imply that Rosalind Franklin was the true discoverer of DNA and that James Watson & Francis Crick, with the help of Maurice Wilkins, stole her discovery.

Rosalind Franklin was no doubt an excellent scientist, a molecular biologist, who, along with Linus Paulding in the US, sought to solve the puzzle of DNA. She was a painstaking researcher, who compiled much of the fundamental data on the subject (in the form of x-ray photos of DNA). Her work provided the crucial information that enabled Watson & Crick to make their breakthrough discovery of the structure of DNA.

But the fact remains that, while she had the information, she did not make the discovery. Watson & Crick did. Could she have arrived at their conclusion give more time and more research? Perhaps. But the question is irrelevant. She didn't. They did. Watson & Crick did not "steal" her discovery. They made it on their own - no doubt with the invaluable help of her data. 

But that is the way scientific discoveries are made. The great breakthroughs are always based on previous inconclusive research and data compiled by other scientists. Such information is the common property of the scientific community, not the private property of individual researchers. Progress is made through the sharing of data, studies and findings. Science progresses not in secret, but through an open system of shared information. 

The credit for any scientific discovery goes to those who reach the solution first, not to those who work toward the solution or provide the data on which the solution is ultimately based. 

The fact is that such discoveries are often the result of a combination of painstaking research and illuminating insight. Rosalind Franklin was a painstaking researcher. But it was Watson & Crick who had the brilliant insight.

I believe that this episode is an example of Thomas Kuhn's theory of the function of paradigms - the framework of existing concepts that dominate any field of human endeavor. The effect of paradigms is to "blind" those who work within the existing conceptual framework to possibilities that become visible to those who work "outside the box," - i.e. outside the paradigm. To work within an existing paradigm is to expect a certain solution and, inevitably, to look for that solution. 

I believe that this is probably what happened with the discovery of DNA. While Rosalind Franklin was working within the framework of the existing molecular biological paradigm, Watson & Crick stepped outside the box and were able to view the data in a new and different way. This was because neither Watson (a zoologist & bacteriologist) nor Crick (a physicist turned chemist) were molecular biologists and were therefore not trapped in the existing paradigm of molecular biology. This enabled them to see what Franklin and Paulding didn't see. Therefore, it was Watson & Crick who became the discoverers of the structure of DNA and received the credit, and the Nobel Prize they fully deserved.

To give Rosalind Franklin credit for the research she did and the data she so painstakingly assembled (data which enabled Watson & Crick to make their breakthrough discovery) is a generous thing. But for these authors to imply that they "stole" her discovery is inaccurate. It has far less to do with the pursuit of scientific or historic truth than it does with the pursuit of a feminist agenda.
