If you are a fan of Anne Perry's novels, this is not the review to read. This was the first book I have read by her, and I doubt there will be another. 

A man is murdered and the crime is solved, but the mystery is not the true focus of this book. If I began telling you that a man was found dead in a boat dressed as a woman, in a pose that the other characters clearly judged to be obscene, and Pitt spent his time figuring out who did it, I would mislead you. This is not what you will spend most of your time reading about.

Pitt does begin investigating, then he goes to the theatre where we are introduced to a subplot: the changing role of women in Victorian society. Ideas clash, and we are supposed to be excited about it. I was still interested at this point.

Then we have "ideas in practice" for three or four chapters, where the book turns into a soap opera about the dark secrets of private life in Victorian England, which, of course, can only mean one thing: sex. The reader's appetite is whetted for unspeakable family secrets on the part of Mariah, the mother-in-law of Pitt's mother-in-law, Caroline. The relationship between Mariah and Caroline is worth some attention, and Caroline's struggle - as the book's moral focus - to find her way in the confusion of old and new ideas is sympathetic. However, I was fast losing interest when chapter after chapter all we had was foreshadowing something really interesting that failed to come. When it did, it wasn't that interesting, but at least the characters were shocked to the core.

Meanwhile, the murder plot blossoms into a treatise on censorship, with an emphasis on the censorship of pornographic material and a foray into the emergence of photography. The characters are used as carriers of ideas, and only that, which makes them one-dimensional and uninteresting. They regularly break into dreadfully long monologues until we reach the climax of the book, where the ideas - dressed as the two central female characters - clash and we find out who the author thought was right. By this time, I was thoroughly bored.

This could have been an interesting book. Ideas are not uninteresting, but it is the experience of people's lives that gives them richness and texture. Even in a mystery, plot and character must come before the moral of the story.


