Amazon truly did you all a favor by mercifully offering you an excerpt of ten whole pages of Mr. O'Reilly's book. This was a luxury I was not given, and now I can't help but feel it's too late for my poor soul. I stomached the whole enchilada, and I warn you this is one Mexican (or wet-back, as Mr. O'Reilly ocassionally refers to people of Mexican origin) dish you do NOT wish to tackle. The first ten pages alone tell you exactly what kind of person Bill O'Reilly is. It is obvious that this iteration of this children's edition of his wildly  asinine "The O'Reilly Factor" is just another attempt to gouge his enamored viewers for more money. This book offers no real advice that cannot be already garnored by the occasional disney channel blurb or the elusive "common sense." It takes him two precious pages to explain to his obviously mentally ill readers that "real friends" are not anything like those on the show "Friends." Being a fan of the show I have to agree with O'Reilly, but then I'd be forced to ask "What the hell Bill?!" He recently settled a lawsuit pressed against him for a rumored $10 million by a Ms. Mackris for sexual harassment. He attempts to teach our children about sex, but is himself a barely disguised chauvenist and borderline deviant. His previous "The O'Reilly Factor" has it's own section on sex. Here he shows just how little respect for woman and boastfully describes many of his "sexual conquests." In his fiction novel "Those Who Tresspass" he self inserts himself as an irresistable and dangerous womanizer. Feel free to use the main character in this novel as a personality guide for O'Reilly himself. He is desperately and consistently seeking admiration from his audience. It's both sad and sickening. He barely alludes to his "rambunctious" childhood misadventures with his friends, trying to pass by his readers what he "learned" from those experiences. However, both his massively (depressingly) popular cable "news" show and his series of near toxic books reveal a man borderline insane. He's rediculously angry at the most obnoxiously inane things, a chronic liar, and has the memory span of an 80 year old hamster with alzheimers. He will literally make points in this book and provide evidence that counters his own argument. His show is no different. He will make wildly offensive comments. When his callers call him up on it, he has his chronies "replay the tape." Of course, in the year 2006 we are completely unable to actually replay this tape on modern television for viewers, as you can see when his chronies shout back off camera a completely different statement. He has never apologized for his actions, only grunting with simian aggression and angrily moving on to the next segment. This man cannot hold multiple marriages, yet he attempts to teach children about relationships. Mr. O'Reilley is to televised journalism what pornography is professional photography. Any person who truly consider themselves a conservative should be horrified by how he represents the demographic. A recent example is of a jewish man who called into his show to make his case that having Christmas during school as he grew up made him feel uncomfortable because he felt constantly pressured to be more Christian. O'Reilly responded by telling the man that if he didn't want to live in a Christian nation he should move to Israel. Any truly religious person whether Christian, Muslim, Jewish, or Buddhist should find a comment like this wildly offensive. Well, perhaps the Buddhists will let that one go. In a country where religious freedom is one of it's main tenets, perhaps O'Reilly would be advised to know that a marginal amount of secularism in public and government institution is necessary for religious freedom. The founding fathers considered religion a largely personal matter, as did Jesus. "Render unto Caesar's what is Caesar's." 

But I digress. As several reviewers before me have already stated, their is no real advice to be taken from these pages. It is a shameless attempt to slip into his fans' pocketbooks. Please do not support Bill O'Reilly. He is a hack journalist. He does not cite sources, and he both dilberately and unknowingly misinterprets data graphs. His debates are nothing more than one sided scream fests where the slightest hint of losing is barbarically avoided by screaming to his producers: "CUT THE MIC!" He is just one more piece of evidence that the FOX News Channel can take any angry, opinionated moron and turn them into a popular "media icon." This man is literally a danger to our country. Please do not endanger your children as well. The chances of accidental death are marginally better bringing a handgun into the home than "The O'Reilly Factor for Kids." He lowers political commentary to the standards of Jerry Springer. He may be loud and entertaining, but he is also manipulative and not very good at hiding it. Please Factor fans, attempt to see what a horrible man he really is when you ignore this review and read through these demonic pages. Consider this a review for each of his nonfiction books, as I have read them all and each is written in progressively poorer quality.
