Avid fans of Sidney Sheldon will probably enjoy this book.  It is indeed as is noted in the editorial reviews a rough-hewn and crudely carved sequel of "The Other Side of Midnight."  Sheldon does not deviate from the routine trashy forumla replete with cliche bedroom scenes and a plethora of ruthless characters.  

Set in the late 1940s right after WWII, Catherine, wife of pilot Larry whom readers first encountered in "The Other Side of Midnight" regains her memory.  She remembers how cruel Larry was to her and how he jilted her for his mistress, Noelle Page.  Indeed, Noelle was the kept mistress of one Constantin Demiris who was written to sound like an ersatz Ari Onasis.  Demiris, like a magician can make those in his disfavor disappear.  Exit Larry and Noelle in the first installment.

In this book, Catherine, the long-lost heroine is restored to glory and is swept off her feet by a man who is loosely based on the cliche Cavalry men.  

A psychiatrist and an eclectic mix of patients are thrown into this story; just how they are directly tied into the main plot has never been addressed.  One character who is clearly written as an autistic savant displays some of the more prominent autistic behaviors.  He is echolalic; he recites long chains of information and he knows the number and type of vehicles he passes in route to the doctor's office.  His activities are solitary and few; he does not voluntarily interact with others.  I am really tired of stories like this that portray characters with autism as automaton-like savants with isolated abilities that are far removed from the social world.  I think stories like this do a grave disservice to those with autism and for others who come across autistic characters because it is just perpetuating a stereotype.

This book does not really contain much of a mystery.  It's just ruthless people getting even with each other.  Even good old Demiris' wife Melina enters this story after having been relegated to shadow figure status in the original.  Same old fare.

An attorney who was directly involved in a trial engineered by Demiris re-enters the picture.  Some fancy manuevering, and he runs away with the show.  Literally
