I wish I could give this book a good review.  Unfortunately, I can't.  The title is very misleading.  If you expect this book to teach you how to draw manga images digitally (as I did), you will be very disappointed.  99.9% of all manga images are black and white, and use frames, speech bubbles with text, sound effects, black and white line effects, and tones (black and white patterns that read as gray when printed).  This book does NOT cover any of this.  

It also contains some ludicrously incorrect information.  For instance, it says that unlike American comics (where you have a penciler, inker, and letterer), Japanese artists do everything themselves.  Nothing could be further from the truth, as any interview with a mangaka (Japanese manga artist) or perusal of the copyright page will tell you.  In fact, most manga are created by a primary artist and several assistants.  

Here's an even worse example.  In the introduction to digital inking, they say, "In manga-style artwork, inked lines are usually contour lines...the linework of a character's hand would depict the outline of the fingers, but wouldn't show shading, wrinkles, or folds in the skin.  It is up to the colors to show depth and texture."  Um, except, manga is published exclusively IN BLACK AND WHITE.  There are no colors!  Have they ever read a manga?  My mind boggles.  Pick up any manga and open it and you will see for yourself.  They go on to say, that "inking techniques such as hatching, stippling, and spotting black...are atypical in manga style art, but can be employed for stylistic purposes to achieve a distintice look."

This would be news to CLAMP, the studio that created many manga bestsellers, who are famous for their beautiful black and white line work.  Or to, well, any of the mangakas, really.    

This book teaches very basic color, digital techniques in anime `cel' style.  It focuses on Photoshop and Painter, and ignores Illustrator and the manga-specific software (such as ComicWorks and Manga Studio) completely.  They don't even cover the fact that most Japanese mangakas as well as most American digital art, is done on the Mac platform.  

I gave it two stars because it does teach some simple techniques to create layered, color digital art, but these techniques are better covered in the many free online tutorials available on the web or in other, more comprehensive art technique books. 
