This is the story of a woman who was sexually abused by her father, and called fat, ugly and stupid by her mother and father.  There isn't much detail. Her mother divorces her father and she is no longer sexually abused, but she "acts out" and marries a bad, jealous guy.  He kills her dog by throwing him out a third floor window, her cat disappears, but she doesn't leave him. She does have an abortion because she apparently has figured out by this time that she doesn't want a child with him.  She leaves him, marries someone else, has a multitude of jobs, has a child, and many, many more pets.  What happens to all of these animals is mysterious, but I don't think that they live to a ripe old age, because they are usually mentioned once, then never again. Debbie is on to the next round of pets. She divorces her husband because he doesn't want to hold hands, and she knows that there is so much more out there.  Has drug dealers for friends (what exactly are they getting from her?), neglects her son, gets involved with more losers who beat her up and rape her, gets more animals, more jobs, gets drunk and causes a ruckus at her sister's wedding, but no big deal, joins AA, then begins a program to take care of street youth. Meanwhile, she still doesn't have it together in her personal life.

This is a short book with large print.  The writing is vague and superficial.  Nothing in this book made me like this lady, although I am sure that there are many people who probably do. She just came across in the content of her writing as immature and self-centered.  She only recently figured out (after 50 years or so) that she wasn't "fat" or huge - she is 5'4" and was always within 10 lbs of 113.  

At some point, you have to take responsibility for the choices you make in life, even if your parents did call you "fat, stupid, and ugly". Be an alcoholic, drug-abusing bad decision-maker if you must, but don't bring innocent animals and children into your dangerous, chaotic environment. 

I strongly recommend you avoid this book, even if, or especially if, you were abused. If you want to read uplifting books about someone who has overcome abuse, read anything by Louise Hay
