While reading this book, I remembered a story of "Four Blind Men and an Elephant" that I have heard since my childhood days. The story goes like this: 

Four BLIND MEN decided to "see" an elephant for the first time. When they were near one each tried to understand how it looks like. Being blind by birth, they decided to touch and feel the elephant and each one started to describe it one by one.

One of them said, by holding its tail in hand, "I know how the elephant looks like, it is like a long rope" and thus announced his great discovery to other three blind men.

Immediately another blind man who was holding one of its legs said, "No, you are not correct, it is like a pillar!" He sounded very confident!

In the meantime, yet another said, "No, you both are terribly wrong! It is like a long tube"! He was holding its long trunk.

The fourth person disagreed with all the other three and said "No, it is like a big round rock" and he was holding its body by the belly.

So, if you are not blind you know how the elephant looks like and you know for sure it does not fit into any of these descriptions proposed by the four blind men.  But all of them were so confident and each tried to describe to the other, but no one finally had true knowledge about how the elephant looks like. 

Think about this situation. When these men go back home and they all try to explain it to others, what would be the end result? And if those who heard from these four blind men in turn explain it to yet others, it would be no less than a catastrophy!
 

Unfortunately, the author of this book Mr. Rabi (Mr. Rabindranath R. Maharaj) in fact was surrounded by a group of people who were "Blind" to "True Spirit of Hinduism" (it is very evident from lot of conversations honestly portrayed by the Author himself in the book that none of them were qualified in scriptural knowledge of "Hindu way of life" the modern name of "Sanatana Dhrama") who were shaping his childhood basic lessons in spirituality and that too in a land far away from the root of Hinduism. Mr. Rabi was too focused on "Brahman" concept and he saw the "LIGHT" (or Brahman radiance/energy which is neutral to everything, focussed in maintaining the material manifestations and it sure lacked in Love) and missed the "SUN" (The Supreme Personality of God, the source of pure Divine Love) which emits it.

I would never criticize Mr. Rabi for writing this book (like others) but rather appreciate his openness in admitting his failure and his reasons in not understanding Hindu religion so that others can learn from him and avoid those mistakes. Also I feel very sorry for the poor guidance he got from the people around him when he was sincerely trying to follow a faith that he once tried to believe in. His father might have been a great Yogi for many, but was of no use for anyone in showing the right path and not even for his son who was craving for God's love. Or may be he too was merged deep into the neutral nature of Brahman effulgence! This path to God has been highly discouraged by Krishna himself in Bhagavat-Gita! Thus lack of proper guidance and emergence of "Self made FALSE Hindu GURUS" in this world is eating into the very base and existence of Sanatana Dharma (or Hindu way of life). 

Same way many "Hindu born" persons fall prey to other religion and faith, thanks to their understanding based on a blind man's theory of the "elephant" which ends in conversion. This book would be a "Very Good Tool" for converting those who are weak in Hindu (Sanatana Dharma) scriptural knowledge! Well done Mr. Rabi! 

One message for the author: If you were looking for love of God and would like to experience and nourish it through the study of Vedic scriptures (of Sanatana Dharma), please read BHAGAVATHAM, (it describes the personality of the Supreme, his Love and His activities and one of the best admired English translations is about 17,000+ pages written by Srila Prabhupada) and you can relish it for rest of your life and fill-up your consciousness with full blown true love for God (in his special personal form) which would ultimately result in reaching the Heavenly Father (through Moksha) in the spiritual realm of the Supreme as stated by God in Bhagavad-Gita. 

As always, true guidance from a self-realized person is required for understanding the true meaning of the scriptures and of course, true devotion to God is a must. Otherwise, your chances of getting lost in the vastness of its knowledge is very high.  Hinduism has answers and methods for fulfilling all kinds of desires (material and spiritual) and in the end when a living entity (after several life times having enjoyed material life in return for positive karma or even sufferred enough for negative karma accumulated through various free will actions) desires for getting connected back to God (his original father) it shows the right way only through a qualified teacher (Guru) who could guide you in the right direction otherwise you would follow the wrong scripture and rituals and could even mistake Kamasutra (if you have only read "Kamasutra" while trying to understand Hinduism) as the designated way to spirituality.  This would be like the blind man's description of elephant. 

Ultimately any practice or faith that promotes love for God and His creation need to be encouraged and every true faith should teach ONLY that. No faith should teach hatred towards another faith. No faith should use false information about another faith for "Selling" its own Theory of God and Love even if it is true.  In the end, faith or belief is not important, but Love that has developed is important. After all, God does not belong to or follow any faith or religion! 

Krishna has rightly said in Bhagavad-Gita: "Leave all forms of religious worship and just surrender unto me and you shall come to me without fail". So, why should there be any fight between religion, faith or belief? Know that nothing matters in the end except Love between God and Man to return to the Original Eternal Home!
