Mr. Lord could have written a good book.  He has the tools and the know-how, and he did his research.  He made one fatal error, however.  Actually he made not one, but two mistakes.  The first mistake is that his starting point is wrong.  As a trained journalist, he does as a journalist does - he keeps trying to find "dirt", or rather manufacture dirt - all in order to give us a "balanced view".  One can't help feeling, as one reads interview after interview, that Mr. Lord has somehow picked only the disgruntled, caustic and jealous remarks to print.  The second mistake was in underestimating "James Herriot"'s fans, and familys goodwill towards him.  He treats his subject manner as just another subject, as routine grist for the gossip mill, but Alf Wight was not that kind of person. He was a person totally out of Mr. Lord's scope and understanding.  He underestimated Mr. Wight's fans and family's tolerance for having his name besmearched, and, indeed, his son wrote another book in response, a beautiful book about his father, and in it he easily refutes all Mr. Lord's accusations - and turns Mr. Lord into a laughingstock.  Because anybody who has read the two books side by side - which I just did - would realize that Mr. Lord has indeed made a laughingstock of himself.

While there are some good parts to the book, they are very much overshadowed by the other parts.  There are two good chapters - in the middle - which were written factually - the chapters dealing with the content of James Herriot's first books, and the publishing history.  There is a good reason why this is so - Mr. Lord was indeed part of the publishing business and would have been privy to that sort of information.  

But much of the book is exactly what he accuses James Herriot of writing - pure fiction.  It would take too long to point out every one of Mr. Lord's mistakes, but I would like to simply write just a few of the many mistakes Mr. Lord makes.  The rest, if you still want to read this book, you could find out for yourself.

The first accusation Mr. Lord makes about James Herriot is that Alf Wight did not write a semi-autobiography, but rather pure fiction.  He maintains that even if this were so, it would not matter, because the books are still entertaining.  With that salve to his conscience, he methodically starts to take apart many stories in an effort to prove them fiction.  

His first assertion - that it would not matter if it were actually fiction, is simply not true.  It would matter, and matter a lot, to both his fans and friends and family.  His son says as much in his book- that it would matter a lot if his books are fiction.  Fortunately for us, Mr. Lord does not bring a single proof that could stand up to scrutiny.  His method seems to be - I don't think this story is true, so it's probably not.  That's it.  Not one single proof.  For instance, he says that Alf Wight's memoirs of his war years are fiction - because the dates are wrong.  He says that Alf Wight joined the army in March, 1941, and was discharged two years later, and therefore his story that he was called up to the RAF while his wife was expecting their first child is a fictional story.  His son, in his book "The Real James Herriot" explains that he enlisted in the RAF in March, but was NOT CALLED UP until 15 months later, in November 1942, when his wife was indeed, expecting their first child.  Is it possible his son and wife might know when he joined the RAF better than Mr. Lord?  Especially since Mr. Lord actually admits that he is going from hearsay - since the RAF would not give Mr. Lord access to their records, claiming that they were still classified?  This should be enough of a blooper to discredit Mr. Lord; however, there are many, many more - so many that it would be funny if it were not also very, very sad that someone could so easily print a book full of lies and get away with it (by prefacing all his explanations with "perhaps" he covers himself from libel, I suppose).

Another example of Mr. Lord's innuendos -  he quotes from one of Mr. Herriot's books that James Herriot was taken aback by the red (and squished) face of his newborn son, and asked the nurse if there was something wrong with the child.  Mr. Lord asks how can this story be true if he is a vet?  Just so, explains his son, animals are born much more fully formed than humans are.  (A horse is born already able to walk as soon as he is born).  Mr. Lord falls flat in the mud.

Mr. Lord quotes James Herriot as saying that 90% of his stories are based on real life.  Mr. Lord asks how that can  be - when the Herriot books say that he joined Seigfried's practice in 1937, when he actually started working there in 1941?  Mr. Lord, I think we are ready for a lesson in English.  Do you know what the words "based on true life" means?  "Based" means "based", not "actually, exactly, fact".  When he first started writing, he was hoping to remain anonymous, and therefore disguised his stories so that the people he was writing about would not recognize themselves.  He changed the location of his practice to the Dales, he changed the dates, he even changed the characters - some from a man to a woman, for example.  He put two stories into one, etc. etc.  This all falls under the heading of "based on real life". 

There are many, many more examples of this in his book - where he "proves" that James Herriot was writing fiction - and he has no proof whatsoever.  Not even one single time.  

If there is one person writing fiction, that person is Mr. Lord.  Mr. Lord spends two entire chapters on a conjecture of how Alf's childhood might have been like - all based on the assumption that Alf had grown up in grinding poverty.  These chapters become almost a farce when we read his sons portrayal of his real childhood - although his parents were not rich they were certainly never poor, and Alf had a very happy childhood.  He also explains the economics of why this was so.  Which puts Mr. Lord's two chapters of conjecture on how Alf's unhappy childhood might have been like in the category it deserves - pure fiction.  While the poverty of the under-class in Glasgow in the 1920's is certainly very sad, it definitely does not belong in a biography of Alf Wight.

Another mistake that Mr. Lord makes is that he constantly contradicts himself.  For example, in one chapter he spends many paragraphs conjecturing on why Alf was always poor, when he should have had a thriving practice - and the fanciful castles he builds in the air are very elaborate indeed.  And yet in another chapter he quotes a neighbor as saying - "oh, they claimed they didn't have any money but that wasn't true.  They had money for everthing - a tennis court, ballet lessons for Rosie, etc."  This came across as a vitriolic statement, but of course in contradiction to his earlier assumption that he was poor.  Mr. Lord, you can't really have it both ways, can you?

Another example - he constantly quotes Eddie Steanton throughout the book, with all kinds of outrageous comments, yet he himself quotes one of Eddie's colleagues "oh, Eddie always exaggerates, you can't believe everything he says".  And later in the book it comes out that Eddie had had a falling out with Alf Wight, and I would assume that his "memories" might be somewhat tainted by those sentiments.  And yet Mr. Lord accepts Mr. Streaton as a fully credible source.

As matters stand now, this book is laughable and barely deserving of a review - except for one thing:  if Mr. Wight's son would not have written his own biography, Mr. Lord's fictious book would have remained as the factual biography of  Alf Wight.  He would have succeeded in besmirching Alf Wight's name with his book full of lies (oh, excuse me, fiction).  The fact that his son wrote his own biography, and a beautiful and moving one at that, has turned Mr. Lord's book into a joke, a book that his fans would not touch with a ten-foot pole, but Mr. Lord did not know that in advance.  He tried to change James Herriot's fans opinion of their idol, by trying to find "dirt" on him, and that was a very low thing.  The fact is that he fortunately did not succeed, but that does not take away from what Mr. Lord tried to do.

Mr. Lord, shame on you
