Don't even bother.  

I can't think of a single redeeming characteristic here.  I mean, bringing back Jason Todd in those other trades was a bit gimmicky, but at least they're (somewhat) pulling it off.  But this?

Puh-leeze.  I find better plots on cereal boxes.

First of all, the Joker is no crime kingpin.  Never has been.  He's not some connected mafia goon that can get someone like the Riddler sprung from prison "just like that."  He is NOT obsessed with "running Gotham" a la say, Black Mask.

Second of all, the Joker's characterization in the last oh, TWENTY YEARS is such that he is basically an insane, inhuman monster (uhm, killed Jason Todd at the end of the 80s, right?) - not some heartsick fop pining over a dead wife and kid.

Which brings me to the third point: ahem, we DON'T KNOW that the wife-and-kid thing ARE Joker's background; he's CRAZY, remember?  It has never been part of ANY conclusive pantheon.  "Killing Joke" doesn't COUNT as canon, since it's the recollection of a madman who prefers his history as "multiple choice."

Fourth and finally, Hush is a total waste in this story.  His complete APPEAL isn't that he knows Bruce so well, or that he's a great surgeon, or that he can run around so well in all those lame bandages.  NO.  His appeal came (1) you don't know WHO he is (calling him "Tommy" is just plain dumb), since he was NEVER REVEALED at the end of the first "Hush" storyline; (2) he was calm, collected, a chess-player villain who had thought dozens of moves ahead and planned everything meticulously.  

Therefore, making him another Two-Face / Killer Croc meets Phantom of the Opera madman flapping about in a lame trench coat and bandages making threats and slugging it out with people just BASTARDIZES the ENTIRE POINT of this guy!  Having him fight the Joker for "control of Gotham" is just lame, lame, LAME.  Neither of them NEVER had interest in this before, so why now?  

Besides, Hush was getting the villains to COOPERATE with him AGAINST Batman by tapping their personal foibles / interests / obsessions.  Making him another thug vying for top dog means he's just as dumb as the others!

Gee.  Guess I had a lot to say.

I just hate the fact that such an awesome storyline and character has been so utterly, totally RUINED by some lame marketing department trying to cash in for a buck today that robs them of several thousand they could have made tomorrow with a decent writer
