Had this book been the work of a novice Sci-Fi author it would have never seen print. 

The story follows the life of one Lazarus Long, a character who is easy to see is only a thinly veiled cover for the author himself.  Lazarus is a character who is so convinced of his own personal superiority that late in his very long life he travels back in time so that he can father himself.  As further example of his self superiority he had himself cloned into twins of the opposite sex.  Twins that he later has sexual relations with.  Even the conscience mind of the artificially intelligent computer that controlled his space craft transferred itself into the engineered body of a woman so that it too could have sexual relations with Lazarus.  To make it further insulting the sexual advances of those characters is not of Lazarus' choosing but rather of their free will.  Indeed Lazarus fends off the sexual advances of his cloned twins until they reach the age of consent.  This reveals how shallow the author feels the drives and motives of others to be.

     The story follows the life of Lazarus Long through a series of 'flashbacks' as the character struggles to find a reason to continue his existence.  Most of the flashbacks deal with how the character traveled about the Universe starting colonies on untamed worlds.  Each of these mini-stories is an equally self aggrandizing yarn about how Lazarus fathered virtually every child on the planet while single handedly delivering the worlds he founded from lawlessness, ignorance, and barbarism.  Among these 'gems' are such classic lines as 'there is only one way to comfort a widow' implying that the answer was sex.  Yes, among these stories there are a few meaningful bits of wisdom such as Heinlein's list of what things a man should be able to do.  To save you the grief of reading the book just to get to it I'll quote it for you below. . .

      "A Man should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently and die gallantly. Specialization is for insects."

               - Robert A. Heinlein

  Certainly I can agree with that.  These are abilities that every man should endevour to have to make himself complete.  But they are not the exclusive domain of men. Unfortunately this bit of wisdom is so embedded in mounds of garbage that reveal Heinlein's low esteem for women it is not otherwise worth excavating.  One comes away from this book knowing that the Author felt that women are worth nothing beyond serving as receptacles for a man's sexual needs.  Throughout the book examples are given of how a man should be able to do all of the above while women, conversely, are scarcely credited with the ability to do any of those things.  That this book was ever nominated for an award is a blemish on human history
