The Gunslinger is the first book in Stephen King's Dark Tower series. It is the story of Roland Deschain's quest to find the man in black, who will lead him to the Dark Tower

On this journey, Roland travels through gritty rundown lands, often times lost in thought, reflecting on his past and all that he has lost. And thus becomes the pattern of the story. Roland travels and thinks and travels some more.

I did enjoy one childhood story in particular. He challenged his teacher and fought with a raven as his weapon. It proved that he was willing to sacrifice others, even a bird in this case, to further his own cause. This is why when we meet a young boy named, Jake, we know his fate is doomed as well.

Jake's story fascinated me. He was in New York City and the man in black ripped him from his world there and dumped him in the middle of the desert in Roland's world. He is a small glimmer of hope to an otherwise jaded story.

I had a hard time reading this book. At first I thought it was because I don't normally like western flavored stories, but my love for movies like Tombstone and shows like Deadwood have proved that's not always the case. It turns out that I just don't like the hero of the tale.

I think Jake was added to show us a softer, caring side of Roland, but it fell short. He knew he'd betray the boy from the beginning and we knew it too. Only, I wanted it to be something big when it happened. The big scene was a big let down. I remember thinking, "Wow, that's it? Please tell me that's not it."

I know heroes are not all supposed to be charmers, and I'm not one to mind if the hero is crass and ruthless. But no matter what, I found that I just didn't care about Roland or his plight or anything in his world. I couldn't attach myself to them.

What I enjoyed most in this book was reading the introduction King wrote since I always love reading when he writes about creating stories in general.

And well that's that. I have the next 4 or 5 books in this series and I haven't yet decided if I will continue it. How can I read more if I don't like the hero, eh
