
Please note, I think "Inherit the Wind", taken solely as a piece of drama, is a great play in all respects.
These comments are specifically about the SparkNotes guide to the play.

"Inherit the Wind" is NOT about the Scopes "Monkey" Trial - and the way in which this guide thoroughly confuses the two does a great disservice to anyone who reads it.

To fully understand the origins of the play you have to know that it was written, and ready for performance NOT in 1955, when it was finally produced on stage, and NOT in 1960, when it became a film, but in 1950.  And here's why that is important:
In 1955, when the play appeared on Broadway, the McCarthy witch hunt had collapsed in ignomany six months or more in the past, and Senator Joseph McCarthy was no longer a threat to anyone.  In 1960 McCarthy was not only out of politics - he had died approximately 3 years earlier.

BUT

In 1950, just writing this play was a major act of bravery, because the House UnAmerican Activities Committee was operating at full throttle.  And Joseph McCarthy was one of the most powerful men in America, a man who could destroy people whole lives just by "suggesting" that they were, or had been, "commie sympathisers" - a part of the alleged "communist conspiracy".

Is it any wonder, then, that Lawrence and Lee took the precaution of dressing up their expose of McCarthyism - the bullying, the innuendo, the bigotry, the incitement to hatred and so on - as what was by then an almost forgotten event from the 1920's, 25 years before?

These notes are a disservice, in equal measure, because they confuse the events of the real life trial with the events in the play; and because they conceal the real motivation behind the writing of the play and the courage of the authors in daring to write the play at all *at that time*, and ignore the important messages that Lawrence and Lee wanted to get across, not only about intolerance in general, but also about McCarthyism in particular.

If you really want a study guide for "Inherit the Wind", I'd recommend the CliffsNotes version.  It isn't perfect, but it's a whole lot better than this.
