This is a horrible book.  I liked "Abduction", but Chromosome 6 is a piece of trash in comparrison.  The main problem is the characters.  They are ridiculously unreal.  At one point, there are two female characters who coerce a workmate into visiting an island although they're in the jungle, and they know that guerilla soldiers are all around the island.  It's like they don't care about life.  Not only that, but they talk like a couple of barbies, like for example: It would be totally fun to check out that island.  Good idea, Melaine, why didn't I think of that!  

The girl's first attempt at reaching the island is disasterous.  Guards shoot at them then arrest them.  A few hours later when they are released.  One of the fearless girls says something like: That totally pisses me off.  I'm going to get on that island if it's the last thing I do.  The other fearless girl agress, and that same night, they are trying a different route to get to the island!  

They want to get onto the island to check on some monkeys they've been experimenting on.  

They try again and then get shot at again, but this time they are able to run away without being arrested.  The next day they try again!  Meanwhile, they call their male companion a chicken for not wanting to go with them because he's scared of being killed!  They rationalize every moronic thing they do.  They say something like: They certainly won't expect us to do it again.  So we should do it!  Duh!  

When they get to the island, they find the monkeys, but these monkeys are big.  Almost two hundred pounds.  For the next few pages, these three idiots are debating whether they sould approach these monkeys for, "a better look," but they are afraid they might scare them away!  What!  Scare away two hundred pound wild animals?  If I would have been there, I would have been running so fast in the opposite direction that I could have run back on the damn water!  

The monkeys obviously almost kill them all!  Didn't see that coming, yeah right!  

Anyhow, the book is filled with stupid characters running through a forseable plot.  It stunk.   
