Embraced By The Light by Betty J. Eadie is actually a pretty good book, well written, and probably well-researched from other people's NDE's.  This book is filled with some great stuff, but also some not so great stuff.  Eventually, no matter how open your mind is, it becomes clearer and clearer that some of these things are either made up or a rip-off from other NDE accounts.

The author seems sincere and it is a heartfelt account.  I could actually feel myself in her shoes in each page of the book, and empathize with her.  The book is heart-wrenching at times and I actually sobbed.  Not so much in sorrow, but a sadness mixed with joy.  The book is very bittersweet but filled with hope, and it provides an invaluable message...  That the most important thing in life is to enjoy life and to love each other.  Now what I just wrote would make the book worth 5 stars.

However, this is where the scale tips backwards.  The book is biased.  She goes on to say that while she was in "heaven" in her NDE, she realized that the creator of the Universe and all else is Jesus Christ himself.  Of course the description of Jesus is the typical white man with a beard with a light glowing from within his beard.  That's all fine and good.  BUT, Mrs. Eadie forgets to say that the creator of the Universe presented itself to HER as Jesus Christ.  This is not a Universal Truth, it is the author's truth. 

Eadie makes a good point that while in "heaven," she learned that it is foolish to criticize other people's religious beliefs, or lack of...  Then she ruins this promising statement by indicating that Christianity is at the top rung and that all other religions don't hold the same love and promises as the gospel.  To a Christian or Mormon, this would make sense, but the TRUTH is that all religions or lack of them are EQUAL.  Christianity is no better than Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism, Wicca, Paganism, Tao, or any others.  To think that one is better, more true, or superior to another (even if the bible says so), is just plain ignorance.

The bias on the importance of men is another downfall for the book, going back to women being weaker in nature than men and that it was "Eve's impatience" or whatever in the "garden of eden" (a biblical fable no more true than the myth of Pandora's Box) that brought death into the world.  
Men and women are EQUAL, period.  This book also slams the concept of reincarnation.  Reincarnation can't quite be scientifically proven, but it is on the brink.  Shame on you Mrs. Eadie.  But if that's her perspective and what she thought she learned in "heaven," than she is entitled to her "conclusion."

Remember folks...  There can be as many similarities in many individual's Near-Death Experiences as there are differences.  Something that is important to know is that Jesus or Jehovah or Angels are not any more true, real, living, or righteous than Pan, Dionysus, Horus, Osiris, Isis, Demeter, Diana, Hecate, Buddha, Shiva, Krishna, etc, for representations of the Creator.  People need to decide for themselves which form of God or Goddess (YES, GOD COULD BE FEMALE, it's not impossible, no matter what the bible, the kuran, or the book or mormon says) to believe in and/or worship.

Overall, this is a decent book, despite its faults and biases.  To a Christian, Mormon, and/or a New Ager, who is dealing with death and dying, or has someone close to you who is, I highly recommend this book to you.  Even to non-Christians, this isn't an entirely bad read, but there are much better accounts for non-Christians and all are just as valid as Mrs. Eadie's.

Remember, the most important thing in life is to enjoy it and to love one another. 
