I LOVE the series.
Have read every book. I am disappointed that they started out in paperback and when it became popular they switched to Hardcover. Tacky in my opinion.
But anyhow.
I love EVE, Roarke and all of them. In my opinion this one is lame and boring. I actually felt that I eithe wanted to skip pages ( but you never can because right then and there you might miss something ) or just was very eager to read about anything the friends and buttler had to offer.
It was okay to find out about another piece of Eve's past. But she goes on and on and on... and yes it is important, and in every book it is mentioned, this time it was written in a very lame and boring style. Very sad.
The entire story had no umpf to it. It is as if Nora Roberts wrote it with half her brain already dreaming of her next vacation or she was bored with this as well and couldn't quite get it right. That happens.
Doesn't make it bad or the series bad. I LOVE it. But this one, what a drag it was. Blah.
I could tell from the beginnig who it was. Now we just had to wait and find out the details that usually EVe puzzles together.
It was as Eve was just tired. And the story just didn't move on.
No umpf and fire behind it. Just listing of situations, ideas and people's problems.
Boring.
I recommend this series to anyone interested, but of course hope you will start with the first one. To fully understand the relationship between all of them.
And why now do we have to be cross with Mira?
It not just sad but stupid as well. Doesn't fit.
Never got the point in the last book, why it ticked EVe off so much.
So her friend had a bit of a hard time accepting that this icone of hers wasn't all he seemed.
Not as if Eve never had her moments of meltdown.
Yes she always did her job right but so did Mira, she delivered in the end.
I love the relatinoship between Mira and Eve and really didn't need to read that they were not doing well together.
And the make up was, okay but not thrilling.

Okay.
Enjoy this book, I am sure it will thrill many but for me it was a boring book.

