FALSEHOODS. Spong's most important falsehood is the book's nominal premise--its title. Christianity won't die if it doesn't change. Religions can remain static, or change minimally, and remain viable for millennia. Islam in particular comes to mind.

Relatedly, the theistic God has not been "cast aside" because human beings have "evolved" (p 54). Positing that humans can/do/will evolve either physically or mentally in the space of a few years is an error made by many, including Marx, Lenin, Lysenko and Hegel. Theism developed due to human nature (pp 51-52), and Spong shows no evidence that the mere acquisition of knowledge changes our nature.

INTOLERANCE. For a guy who seeking to "love wastefully and abundantly," (p 68) Spong has a hell of a long way to go. He commits an unpardonable hypocrisy when he calls his critics peddlers of "premodern literalizations that so frequently masquerade as Christianity" (p xvi). Besides being intolerance bordering on bigotry, wouldn't you agree that Spong calling others' Christian credentials into question is a little ironic?

SOPHISTRY. Why does Spong resist being called a pantheist or even a "panentheist" (p 62)? Is there really any difference between "God is in, but not necessarily the sum of, all things" (panenetheism) and "God is the inescapable depth and center of all that is" (Spongism) (p 70)?

And...Christianity without Christ. Think about that. Sam Kinison would have correctly pointed out that Christianity without Christ is like rock 'n roll without drugs. Spong's Jesus is not Christ. He is a "spirit person" (ch 7). He doesn't save (pp 179-180). He didn't atone (p 84). He will not resurrect us (p 116). I could believe an oak tree is Christ; does that make me a Christian? 

CASUISTRY. Spong's phony reasoning is obvious when contrasting his religious and political views. Take a look at his view of Jesus and his favorable view of abortion (p 6). In chapter 8 Spong sets forth Jesus as the alpha-exemplar of selflessness and defender of the defenseless and excluded (pp 128-9). Contrast that ideal with abortion. Abortion is almost always selfish; actually, it's difficult to think of something more selfish. It also is an act that by definition rejects (kills) the defenseless.

TRUTH. Let's be honest. Spong breaks wide open some of Christianity's most glaring problems and fallacies. Among the best explained are: how the Enlightenment and modern science attack God (pp 31-40); how the need for religion comes from our nature instead of an external source (pp 51-52); the illogic of "religious truth" (p 52); the function of guilt as part of religious control (p 95); the inherent injustice of prayer (p 142); the immorality of the law of Moses (p 153); and the contemporary selective obedience to biblical laws (pp 156-158)
