Writing with the conviction that philosophy must be engaged, relevant and aware of its surroundings, Bernstein wisely ignores such trivialities as media consolidation, the military-industrial complex, depoliticization of primary school curricula (only reading-writing-arithmetic is left) and the political process, with its negligible campaign contributions, smoothly running voting machines, necessary court interventions and informative soundbites.  Instead, he asks the crucial question of whether the Bush administration is of like mind with the Metaphysical Club (Dewey, Holmes, Peirce, James) that met after the Civil War or with Hannah Arendt's writings from the 1970s.  

Taking a pragmatic approach to what needs to be done, Bernstein exhorts the reader to put faith in debate, deliberation and public intellectuals.  He does not use the word "hegemony" once.

The book is occasionally interesting.  Especially if you want a refresher on pragmatism or Hannah Arendt or a superficial summary of secularization theory.  Or if you need to be reminded that not all Christians are (....)-minded.  But for me it was a disappointing read.  The thesis (George W. Bush is not a pragmatist and stark dichotomies oversimplify important questions) is completely uninteresting.

I get the feeling Bernstein wrote this for the money, to capitalize on the political climate he's so disturbed by.  In fact, he starts by admitting that he was going to publish a book about evil right before 9/11.  "The Abuse of Evil" seems to be a lament for that abandoned project, created by combining what he was already intending to publish (about an interesting "mentality" called "pragmatic fallibilism") and a maddeningly shallow treatment of "politics and religion since 9/11".  Some may enjoy the intelligent reflections of the first part and the righteous outrage of the second.  The problem is that the two parts don't fit together very well.  At least that's what spoiled it for me.  

I would have been much more impressed if Bernstein had said word one about how to make our politics (if not our politicians) more pragmatic
