There's a lot to like in this book, theoretically. The worlds themselves are well-drawn, the language curt and no-nonsense with occasional flights into a kind of hard cyberpunk beauty (that sort of mimics but doesn't really ever come close to the best that William Gibson has given us). The science is seamlessly integrated into the story, and you come away with the impression that a lot of thought went into its structure.

The theory doesn't hold, though. This just isn't a very good book. 

The action follows three different characters, along three different threads. At first, and for most of the book, they have no obvious connection with each other. Their stories appear to unravel aimlessly, and although lots of stuff happens, none of it seems to be in the service of an actual story. It has the effect of three brutal picaresques without destinations, physical or moral.

There is a payoff, but it takes a long time to get there, and by the time I did I was so exhausted and dispirited by the intervening unpleasantness that it didn't really have much of an impact.

There are three major problems with this book:

Information withholding: I like books with central mysteries, that make you wait (and work) to understand what's going on. It's a good propulsive technique, plot-wise. But the mysteries need to resolve. The author keeps us confused pretty much the whole way through, dropping occasional hints that aren't so much tantalizing as frustrating. As I said: by the time I figured out what was going on, I'd stopped caring. This might just be my limitations as a reader, but I gather, from other reviews, that a lot of people feel the same way. You work so hard to understand what's going on that it's difficult to enjoy any of it.

Dreams: Harrison uses dreams both in the service of both theme and plot: to elucidate the characters' psychology, and to give us a window into their past. This is unfortunate, because (in my mind) dreams are lazy plot devices that give the author an excuse to stop the narrative and jump back for some convenient exposition, instead of wending it into the story. Generally speaking, as soon as I hit a dream sequence, I lose interest. I lost interest a lot in this book. Which is a shame, because the content of the dreams here is often wonderful, strange and sometimes even touching. It just needs to be presented better.

Unremitting dourness: There is nothing pleasant about reading this book. The main characters are either savage and unlikeable, pitiable and unlikeable, or mystifying and unlikeable. Often all three. And, with the exception of the wife (who I liked almost as much as I pitied), none of the supporting characters are much use either. The worlds they inhabit are brutal, dire, unpleasant, and dour. There's a lot of sex here, but as portrayed it's mostly just another kind of violence. The whole thing's kind of a downer, pretty much the whole way through, and the strange note of hope at the end comes off false and unconvincing, as if it's been grafted on from another, happier book.

The writing itself has some odd lapses too, given the care that went into the structure of the book, and the obvious attention to detail. Lots of tortured, passive sentences. A few bits of dialogue that sound like campy Chandler. 

Harrison is obviously very talented. I wanted very much to like this book, and I suspect I'll pick up another one of his novels sometime in the future. There's a great deal of potential here. It's just that most of it went unrealized
