This book hosts an interesting debate on the major issues in public education.  It brings out some very good points, but also uses poor logic and one sided arguments.  
     For example, the author proposes to debunk the myth that teachers need to be paid more by stating that they only work 7 hours a day, 9 months of the year.  He claims that teachers make an average of   $40,000+ a year and are thus making over $30 an hour.  He claims that accountants and other professionals don't make nearly that, thus implying that teacher should be happy they are getting paid as much as they are for the little they are doing.
     The truth is that some teachers who have 15 years seniority and a masters degree can make $40,000, but starting teachers make closer to $28,000.  I also don't know a single teacher who works only seven hours a day five days a week.  If they did it would mean they came to school right when the students did, and left when they did, and did nothing outside of school.  Most teachers arrive well in advance and go home long after the students, often supervising multiple activities, sports, clubs, and other programs for which they may get a couple hundred dollars a year.  So, what is the real hourly wage?  For a teacher who really works from 7:30 to 5:30, plus an hour of prep at home to grade papers, write lessons plans, and prep for the next day, plus time on the weekends to grade more papers a real teacher works closer to 57 hours a week instead of the authors suggested 35.  Also, school is in secession nine months out of the year, but that doesn't mean teachers only work for nine months.  Over the summers they are attending workshops, taking additional college classes to try and jump to the next pay scale so they can take care of their families.  They also come back to school and start working as much as a month before students arrive to set up the next year and revise curriculum.  Many do work part time jobs during the summer, but their hours and pay are limited by the time commitment of the classes they are taking, and by the problems associated with jobs that will let you work for three months (did somebody say McDonalds?)   With these new factors taken in, what is the wage of a college graduate teacher? The hourly wage for a teacher in their first several years is closer to $12 an hour, a far cry from the authors distorted number of $30 which can only be achieved in reality by someone with 30 years experience and a Ph.D.  Unfortunately this lapse in logic is typical of most arguments in the book.
     With all the distortions the author does make good points concerning what to do about those teachers who are only putting seven hours in and are getting paid the same.  The book is an interesting read, but check the facts on both sides before you believe all the propaganda from either side of this debate.

