Matthew von Unwerth's precocious book rehashes (and often repeats two and three times) facts already well known about Freud, Rilke, and Lou Andreas-Salome. It relies on an admittedly charming ramble through various episodes in the lives of these major characters, and there isn't a single clumsy sentence in the whole. But FREUD'S REQUIEM lacks something one would think an editor would demand, namely a thesis. To claim that a probably fictional walk -- Rilke and Freud strolling along together -- has an "invisible history" is not a thesis, and in fact Von Unwerth quickly shows us that Freud incorporated several experiences into the story of the walk in his essay "On Transience." Von Unwerth rubs two sticks together -- Freud's notions of mourning (confrontation and acceptance of loss, as spelled out in his essay) in tension with Rilke's desire for a truth beyond mere existence. Von Unwerth seems uncertain about the very antitheses between Freud and Rilke he otherwise insists upon -- which, of course, might have yielded an original insight into the material if the author had the ability to find one. It is as if he is prodding the reader to synthesize material and provide critical thought in absence of his talent to do so. One of the overheated blurbs says the book is a "well-informed meditation." This is a euphemism for "factual drift" -- lots of facts, no insight. For insights into the contentious and complementary relationship between literature and psychoanalysis, read the stimulating, unsentimenalized essays of Adam Phillips. Von Unwerth loves an anecdote; why does he describe the last days of Freud in London, and how do these facts illuminate the thesis he fails to provide? His understanding of Rilke's poetry is so pedestrian as to serve only his simplistic (and boringly repeated) image of Rilke and Freud as polar opposites. The only glimmer of creativity comes toward the end of the book, as he suggests (tantalizingly, but alas, sputteringly) that Lou had seen the potential for a synthesis of the two men's positions on art and poetry. His final sentence: "In learning to give himself over to the symphony of life and death, he [Freud] rediscovers himself, and so realizes the potential inherent in all beings to love and work." Is that so? In all beings? I think not, and Von Unwerth gives at least one striking example where Freud thought otherwise, too. But Von Unwerth can't help himself, symphony and all. A fluent but sophomoric attempt
