The main virtue of this book is that it presents all of the arguments in favor of an atheist worldview in one place.

The two-star rating reflects the author's clearly disingenuous representation of his knowledge about Christianity. For example: (page 18) "Christianity, therefore, defines ethics in terms of an individual's religious beliefs (which affect no one else) rather than in terms of unselfish conduct toward others." As the author perfectly well knows, this is an absurd and unworthy representation of the Christian view of ethics: Christians take their lead on ethics from Jesus, who could not have described more clearly how we are to behave toward others.

A technique deployed extensively in the book is the use of terms such as "many Christian fundamentalists" and "politically active TV evangelists" not in the restricted sense in which they are relevant, but with the clear inference that the attitudes and behaviors of such minorities are representative of Christians as a whole. The most widely used such expression in the book, however, is "creationists" - a term I have never heard anyone claiming to represent their worldview, but which the author sets up as if it were the mainstream Christian position. Now I don't mean to deny that most Christians believe that God created the universe, but the author extrapolates this in exotic ways:
(page 86) "God is now portrayed as more passive in His supervision of Nature - often watching from the sidelines as Nature operates on Her own." (This describes the entirely non-Christian Deist position)
(page 70) "Creationists often claim that the laws of physics govern the behavior of the universe" - this is the exact opposite of Christians' belief that God governs the universe and that the "laws of physics" are just a human construct useful for describing natural phenomena.
(page 122) "Creationists, however, view scientific debate and disagreement as signs of weakness. Creationism therefore ridicules open-mindedness and scoffs at the free exchange of ideas so essential to a democratic society and to the scientific method itself." - Tell that to the likes of John Polkinghorne, Bill Craig and Roy Varghese, whose books honestly represent opposing views, using science correctly and in its proper context. 

The most prevalent approach deployed by atheists (and Mills is no exception) is to use their perception of what God would or would not do in any given situation to argue that no such God exists. (Actually Mills goes one further and suggests how Jesus might better have used the special powers that Mills denies he had!) The problem of pain is perhaps the lowest-hanging fruit for such an approach, and Mills uses it fully in support of his atheist stance. Truly, I understand the problem of reconciling the amount of evil on the world with the idea that there is an entirely good God presiding over us, but the mere fact that it is difficult to do so proves nothing. Mills seems to think that God should somehow intervene to prevent anything that could cause pain or suffering - perhaps even to render people incapable of acting in such a way. Isn't it remarkable that the genre of people (atheists) who more than any other feel that we should be responsible for our own actions are ready to invoke the argument that a good God would intervene at every possible opportunity to deny our free will. I do not pretend to be wise enough to discern God's purposes, but the solutions proposed by Mills (and others) for how God should really act (apart from being utterly arrogant) are self-evidently nonsense.

One of the most popular targets for atheists is what Mills devotes a chapter to under the title "The Myth of Hell". Apparently, Mills can see no possibility of Hell, though he does consider several ideas about why God might create Hell: Deterrence, Separation, and Rehabilitation. Now again, I intend no inference that I suppose to know what God's purpose might be, but it seems that Mills has missed the obvious possibility - which is that Hell is what those who reject God freely choose. After all, wouldn't the Christian idea of heaven, with everyone worshipping God, be "hell" for atheists - so wouldn't they naturally choose a place where materialism is all there is?

I would love to say that I respect the atheist worldview, but I simply do not. If there is no God, there is absolutely no basis on which we can differentiate between good and evil; no moral absolutes; none in fact of the things that atheists rely on to argue their position.  

