I don't normally write reviews on Amazon without having read the book.  However, in this case I'm going to make an exception because of the factual misinformation and distortion, not only from the book but the reviews themselves.

First, a word on my qualifcations.  In addition to possessing both a CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) designation as well as a Certified Financial Planner (CFP) degree, I have managed portfolios for 2 decades, including in excess of a billion dollars for individuals and institutions.

As for the comments offered by some reviewers:

(1)	Social Security is a Ponzi scheme.  There are no vested benefits as with private retirement accounts (defined benefit or defined contribution).  All future benefits depend on the promise of politicians - some in office today, some in office 50 years from now.  You may find this reassuring - I don't.

(2)	Privatization does not mean investing 100% of your FICA contributions into stocks.  It means having the CHOICE of investing in stocks, bonds, CD's, treasuries, etc.  

(3)	Nobody says that earning 7-8% in excess of inflation is necessary for privatization to work.  If stocks can return 6-8% nominally over the next 10-30 years, and if bonds return 4-6%, then privatization makes sense for most people.  

(4)	The real return on Social Security contributions for anybody reading this review who is under 50 years of age is close to 1% a year.  For anybody under 30 years of age, the real return is probably negative.

(5)	Some people should NOT leave the Social Security system even if it was allowed; I know this is true because I understand the basics of financial planning.  Individuals who are risk-averse, who do not have other defined benefit pensions, and who have minimal other assets might prefer the security of a traditional Social Security pension to investing in private accounts, even with a lower assumed rate of return.  That said, the benefits should still be accrued and have more of a vested property right than the current system.

(6)	Proposals to rescind tax cuts or to increase the wage base upon which the FICA tax is levied are nothing more than socialist band-aids designed to prop up a failing system.  It's like saying that there was nothing wrong with Enron that a $20 billion bailout from the government couldn't fix.  Increasing FICA taxes or the wage base would be a massive tax hike on small businesses and middle-class Americans.  Bill Gates and Warren Buffet aren't affected by FICA - working class and middle class American are.

(7)	Many American families pay $10,000 - $20,000 a year in FICA taxes to Social Security.  For them, this is a lousy deal.  Nowhere in these books do the authors even attempt to show how Social Security is a good deal - because they can not.  The only people for whom Social Security is a good financial deal are lower-income Americans, those with dependents, and those who tap the disability fund because of health reasons.  If the government wants to continue this safety net for them, fine.  But why should the rest of us have to suffer?

(8)	I have run the calculations for some current Social Security retirees who started receiving benefits in the last 5-10 years.  For almost all of them, they would have done better in a classic pension-style 50-50 asset split between stocks and bonds with their FICA contributions than sending it to Washington politicians.  In some cases, the monthly benefits would be 3X higher than they receive right now from Social Security. 

Prior to 1983, all municipal and state employees had the option of opting out of Social Security and having their employer set up private-accounts (a few did).  The reason that was not extended to private employers is because the private sector (employers and the financial industry) did not at that time have the mechanisms in place to offer the choices available today:  401(k)'s, ESOPs, Roth IRA's, thrift saving plans, etc.  The 1983 Greenspan Commission eliminated the municipal/state opt-out; it should be rescinded and extended to the private sector, as well.

Social Security reform needs to have only four basic planks:

·	Allow any individual to opt-out of the current system, with accumulated benefits frozen. 
·	Individuals who prefer the current system of a defined benefit plan with a guaranteed payment at retirement can stay in the current system.  
·	Individuals can elect to save the entire 12.4% of FICA taxes in domestic and global asset allocation stock and bond mutual funds, treasury bonds, or bank CD's.  They would also be allowed to save half their FICA taxes in personal Social Security Retirement Accounts (SSRA's) while sending the other half to continue funding a reduced Social Security benefit.
·	Any shortfall in revenues will be met out of general revenues, which can easily finance the shortfall from individuals opting out of Social Security by instilling spending limitations on future spending.

As I have stated, not everybody should have private accounts, even if they were made "dummy proof" so as to practically insure long-term positive real returns.  The current system takes so much in FICA taxes from individuals that they cannot meet basic living expenses and save money in an IRA because they don't have enough money left after all their taxes.   This is grossly unfair.   All for benefits that are not defined, have no vested property rights, and which could theoretically be eliminated in the future for any individuals based on their future income levels or the whims of Congress.

This is the real outrage - not the Bush plan, which despite it's many flaws, is at least a step in the right direction.
