Taking Albert Pike as my cue, Morals and Dogma is far more candid about the origin of the Craft than this book.

First of all, searching for the origin of Freemasonry (or at least its preservation) amongst the Knights Templar is preposterous.  There is no evidence the Knights Templar possessed, preserved or advocated any gnostic gospels or secret teachings of Jesus.  This is an anachronism since the gnostic gospels have only gained notoriety in our time.

The Knights Templar were a bunch of mercenaries who had purely mercenary interest when they safely guarded pilgrimages to the Holy Land.  They were good investers and eventually became creditors.  With this money they purchased land in France.  The French King coveted this wealth and property and so spread the libel about the Templars being heretics in order to use the Pope to get rid of them so that the French King could confiscate the Templar's property.  The Pope at the time even regretted that he tried them for heresy.

The Templar origin only operates as misdirection.  I don't know if this is deliberate, although it is hardly unlikely that it isn't deliberate.  Afterall, masonic texts clearly spell out the Kabbalistic origin of freemasonry.  Even the legend of Hiram Abif and Solomon's temple are ostensibly Juwish and should not be disregarded and eclipsed by this Knights Templar nonsense.  Freemasonry is a gnostic religion.  Specifically, its gnosticism borrows heavily from juwish sources, such as the Kabbala.  The pythagorean theorem, and other nonjuwish notions are merely trappings that have been added on to the Kabbalistic core of this gnostic cult.

With regard to Egyptian mysticism, I find it unlikely that it was transmitted to the Freemasons over the centuries since it was only recently that Egyptian hieroglyphics were deciphered by Champollion (1790-1832).  

The only record we have of Jesus' life is the four Gospels (There are of course Roman and Greek and Jewish sources such as Tacitus, Lucan, Josephus and the Talmud; but, I'm referring to "eye witness accounts").  Outside of the record His disciples left us, there is no other sources of what Jesus said or did.  Therefore, to presuppose as Christopher Knight does that he has superior historical materials than the writings of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, and the rest of the New Testament, is the epitome of nonsense.  

Don't waste time with this book.  It leads you on rabbit trails.  It has countless more errors than this which I need not go into.

