John Kenneth Galbraith can be considered a pragmatic liberal, and what he has offered in The Good Society is a concise outline of how a country can - and should - both prosper and take care of its economically deprived citizens.  Galbraith argues that the government should bear the responsibility for building an equitable society, and he discusses his view of the proper role of government in areas ranging from education to foreign policy.

The fundamental problem with the book is that it lacks the depth of treatment that his topics demand.  Each of the chapters, which range from 8 to 10 pages in length, concentrates on a single, unique topic that would normally fill out an entire book.  Accordingly, most of the points Galbraith makes are vague and general.  For instance, he points out that America's foreign policy should emphasize maintaining peaceful relationships with other nations so as to encourage free trade, but he doesn't delve much further into the issue.  Specific policy proposals are never mentioned.

The second problem with the book, which is a consequence of the first, is that the ideas Galbraith offers are neither novel nor particularly insightful.  In the introduction, he challenges the reader by claiming that some of his proposals for society will ruffle a few feathers, but none of the views in the book fall outside the mainstream of the Democratic Party.

What makes The Good Society worthwhile is Galbraith's argument, which he carries throughout the book, that policy should never be subordinated to ideology.  Policy decisions, our pragmatist demonstrates, should be examined on the particulars of the individual case and should not be based on any brand of economic dogma.  Also, the topics and general proposals presented in the book remain relevant today though the book was written ten years ago.

On a stylistic level, the book is inconistsent.  The writing ranges from concise and lucid to jarringly awkward.  The frequent use of double-negatives, fragments, and inverted sentence structure make the reader go back over passages more than once.

Because of the somewhat facile traetment of complex issues, I recommend The Good Society primarily to those without much prior knowledge of liberal (i.e. Democratic) policy.  Generally, it is a "not unpleasant" read
