I'm already somewhat intuitive, I get the gut feelings, chills, sick feeling when the thing being guessed about is negative, the sense that something is just wrong, or I'll have something come to me that won't make sense but will later on. These things are mentioned in this book, and for that I'm glad, as it will clarify what intuition means in that sense. However I feel the book may lead those less knowledgable of what intuition is and what it feels like and what it's good for to some wrong conclusions. The book goes down the road of new age beliefs rather than practical uses for intuition, the whole "you create your reality" stuff which does not have much to do with intuition. Intuition is that feeling that you "just know," creating your reality is what you focus all your thoughts on all the time and how your life forms around those. Not the same thing! Also it talks a LOT about doing 'readings' and about psychic stuff, leading one to believe that intuition is focused on others and on the far future, and I've found this to not be true at all. Intuition does not have to be premonitions or asking someone a bazillion questions to pull info out of them until they tell you what they want to believe. 

Also, the exercises, Exercise 4 claims to be you using your intuition to make answers to a bunch of phrases, such as "a man's name." However, I've found that the list, my answers which I did not give much thought to, were not some random intuitive message, they were in fact many of my favorites. It asks you to choose a color...most people will be tempted to put down their favorite color, not some magical psychic message that has some huge meaning behind it. The book also asks you to take all your very abstract random responses to questions asked in the book and then apply them to a question of yours that is not even remotely related to those random responses you had, and to make up a response that foretells the future for that question. It's just like asking a magic 8 ball a question and getting a response. You know the answer and question don't actually go together. 

It is unfortunate that this book is on the market, leading people to wrong ideas about what intuition is, how to use it, and what it can do for you. There are too many new age-y books that rely on quick thoughtless exercises that claim that everything all fits together in the large universe so everything MUST have meaning, however, think of this: if everything had meaning, even the shape of your bowel movement must have meaning, or the sounds your shoes make on the pavement have some magnificient meaning. That's what this book wants you to believe. It has nothing to do with intuition, it is disguised spiritual b.s
