Tina is molested by her stepfather, who she thinks is her real father, until her mother finally tells her that he isn't. Tina is vague about the details of the abuse and doesn't actually say what happened, so the reader is left in the dark as to how far it went. She prays to God many times to make it stop (why'd he let it start in the first place?), but God is not listening at those times. Finally after many years of this abuse, her mother catches them together, and instead of kicking him out, sends her daughter to a school out of town, with the stepfather driving her an hour each way every day. The Lutheran minister they go to tells mother to keep the family together, and they don't need to involve the authorities because her stepfather says he's sorry (sorry that he got caught). Says it's just something about Tina that makes him do it.  Make sense? The mother works at Kmart and likes to have kids she doesn't care about, and the dad works "in an office". 

The rest of her growing up is fairly normal. She has a boyfriend and he kisses someone else. Ouch. She goes off the college, and finds out her high school boyfriend is seeing her best friend. Tina doesn't seem too upset by this, she's busy with college and new friends anyway. Then he comes to visit her, tells her he got the other girl pregnant, but he really loves her. She quickly moves in with him. The other girl's pregnancy or resulting child is so unimportant that it is NEVER mentioned again. In due time, Tina gets pregnant by him and has an abortion. She says she regrets it. Gets pregnant by him again, has another abortion. Regrets this one too. However, she never talks about what her life would be like if she DID have these two kids by this loser. Nope, it just was wrong and she wishes she'd never done it, but never takes responsibility that is was her decision based on the circumstances she was in at the time. Having an abortion is just SO wrong, that you don't have to think about the consequences of actually having the baby. She seems to put the "blame" for her two abortions on society.  Talks her unmarried sister into keeping her unplanned pregnancy. 

Breaks up with the impregnating loser, meets a "normal" guy. He wants to marry her, they plan big wedding with white dress and bridesmaids. She thinks she doesn't really love him, calls mother to discuss (why bother?). Mom tells her she better get married to this great guy. Tina decides she ought to do it in a few days before she changes her mind. Buys BLACK dress to get married in. Has small wedding. Has finished college, and EVERY job she wants, she GETS. Whines about working and traveling, so tired. Persuades husband to go back to college and get degree in engineering. 

Husband is so smart that he figures finances and tells her they can afford a house. Has baby girl, his parents buy a crib she doesn't like (of all the nerve!). His mother tries to take over (helping too much)and Tina gets frustrated but won't tell her off. How much can a person be expected to take? Husband tells her she doesn't have to work anymore. They buy bigger newer house. Tina whines about packing and moving, so much work. 

Gets pregnant with second baby (never notices when she's pregnant, always thinks she has a stomach virus). Getting depressed and tired with being pregnant and cleaning house, starts sitting in hot tub every night. Guess doctor didn't tell her this is bad for baby as it raises baby's temperature too much (already hot inside mother's body). Slips and falls on icy deck (not good idea to be walking on while pregnant), hurts back, whines some more.

Has second baby, too depressed and physically in pain to take care of self or both children. Medication not helping. Asks mom for help, she refuses, has to "watch stocks on TV for boyfriend" (has left husband finally). Guess husband's family doesn't want to help now? Church people help some, not enough for her. Husband begs her mom to help. She does. Twice. Apparently husband cannot figure out that he should put both kids in daycare while he works, pick them up after work, then  take care of them himself when they go home (just like a single mom does!) Never enters his head. 

While Tina is at mom's house (not too depressed to  drive or go to mom's house), mom tells her to "snap out of it". This makes Tina snap for real, she jumps in car, drives to bridge, tries to jump off.  Cop grabs her (pictures are terrible, can't see what happened. Picture of car on bridge, wow).   

Finally starts going to therapist, but her "faith" (now) helps more. Discovers "uplifting" Christian CD's. Faces fact that she and mom will never have mother/daughter relationship the way she wants it. Says mom saw her as rival for husband instead of daughter she should have protected. That's true.

This book is short (I read it at the bookstore), and its main focus is if you get Christ in your life, your depression will be lifted. But that makes no sense as she was praying and going to church all her life. Tina was searching, yes, but expecting to find the answer to her problems with God. This did not help before, and she seems to have tried to adjust things in her mind to make it that way after the bridge incident. The whole time she needed to look INSIDE herself. Yes, the abuse never should have happened, her mother was a terrible person, and all this affected her self-esteem. But she won't deal with it, won't get angry at mom or stepdad. Apparently she never sees any self-help books or anything like that, and relies solely on church and her "beliefs" to get her emotions in check (and this appears to be a very ineffective solution). By the way, Tina mentions that she cannot get physically helped by Reiki because it conflicts too much with the beliefs she's had all her life. The beliefs she's had ever since she was a child molested by her stepfather. Tina's not much of a one for upgrading her beliefs, which leads her to feeling stuck in certain situations. 

Tina had a lot of things to be grateful for: nice husband and provider, didn't have to work, nice house, healthy kids, nice in-laws, college education, but she is not appreciative. Tina's almost constant whining about things that would seem very small to anyone else, negated any effect this book could have had on me as portraying a mother depressed enough to jump off a bridge. She just seemed spoiled to me. 

For such a deep subject, this book lacked substance and seemed to tiptoe  around the issues. There is no calling a spade a spade - the whole thing is superficially written. Anyone who's had to deal with real problems, especially while depressed, will not "get" this book
