This is the worst, most depressing piece of fiction I have ever read.  There is no real protoganist and not one singular character worthy of admiration--and after a while, their actions just become inexplicable.  The author's soul must truly be an ugly one to have devoted so much time and energy to using his mind to generate so many casual acts of evil throughout the book.  It starts out promising but by the time you get to about halfway through the book or so you get a nagging sense that your very own soul might be sucked out of you and permanently stolen by the heart of Neil Gaiman's darkness or one of his minions.  Additionally, the characters' motivations change like the shifting sands, nothing they do makes any real sense except some inexplicable movement towards doing greater and more evil en masse like some sort of coagulating bacteria or disease.  What is so creepy about this book is the casualness of it all.  Unlike some of Stephen King's work (ie: The Stand), there is absolutely no redeeming thread here--no rallying or marshalling the troops to combat the emerging evil.  It's evil in evil vs. evil surrounded by evil.  All I can say is that this book is ugly, ugly, ugly.  At least writers like Joyce Carol Oats and Joseph Conrad's intentions when writing about such things is to effectively demonstrate the ill effects of such darkness, but to make heroes of characters one should avoid is unconscionable.  The choices the supposed protoganist makes make no sense--and you do root for  him in the very beginning but you find he is just like one of them after all.  I suspended my doubt and disbelief as long as I could but finally became so incensed by the audacity of both the literary critics and the author to pass this off as excellence, I literally stopped mid-sentence and chose to never read this author's work again.  It's a shame too because he has allied himself in other incarnations with a truly gifted artist, Dave McKean, who maybe hasn't completely gone over to the dark side like Neil has.  His association with Dave McKean is the only reason I even opened-up the book--and maybe a little because the title intrigued me.  But it's unfortunate that the industry rewards "clever" works such as Mr. Gaiman's with undue praise.  I've never so strongly disliked a book.  Have you ever found yourself getting angry because you felt robbed or duped by a book?  Well, don't believe the hype, this is the one to throw in the trash or disintegrate with X-men eyeball laserbeams before all your humanity is sucked out of you
