There are two good reasons why I oppose the concept of a completely Good, Omniscient, and Omnipotent (GOO) God:  (1) Acceptance of this God insists that the petty-minded cruelty of God as described in the Old Testament is actually love.  If Christians refuse to acknowledge that Moses invented the tradition of ethnic cleansing, and that this was evil, it is too easy to justify applying this concept to native Americans, Jews, and Moslems, as has been done throughout history, and  is being done at the present time.  (2)  Rejection of this God usually entails rejection of any notion of God, and acceptance of the doctrine that we are merely machines whose existence is accidental.  So while I cannot pretend that I studied Plantinga's attempt to reconcile God and evil with an open mind, I tried to be at least fair.  His argument not only fails, it is silly.  I shall explain why as briefly as I can.

The analogies that Plantinga chooses to support his case are odd to say the least.  The fact that a theist does not know why God permits evil says nothing about the rationality of the belief.  We also do not know how the desire to mow the lawn leads to the bodily motions of mowing the lawn, yet it is rational to suppose there is a connection.  True, but if the desire mow the lawn led instead to sticking one's hands in the whirling blades and hacking them off, we would consider that irrational.  

Since God is GOO, he will eliminate all evil that he can that does not entail eliminating an outweighing good or bringing about a greater evil.  Suppose I am deliriously happy, and my friend Paul has a sore knee.  God cannot eliminate Paul's pain without also eliminating my happiness.  It's impossible to imagine why God cannot do this, unless Paul's pain makes me happy.  Admitting this example to be trivial, Plantinga suggests that heroism in the face of evil is inspirational, and this heroism would be eliminated by the absence of evil.  Facing evil with heroism is good, but the absence of evil is clearly better.  

The good that prevents God from eliminating evil is free will.  Since no argument can be better than its major premise, free will needs to be scrutinized.  Inasmuch as nearly all atheists dismiss free will as a delusion, Plantinga's argument is obviously not meant for them.  My conviction is that free will does exist, but only in the same way that the ability to do calculus exists; it requires a lot of hard work and few people ever develop it to any extent.  At best, one's free will is confined within the limits of one's character, and Plantinga's claim that predictability has nothing to do with free will is clearly false.  For instance, the average white man in 1850's Georgia insisted that slavery was completely consistent with Christian morality and no rational argument could have convinced him otherwise, while the opposite would have been true for his counterpart in Maine.  People with free will do not permit their characters to be molded by arbitrary cultural circumstances.  We might be free to do what we want, but is what we want really a free will choice?  Christians acknowledge that wanting to sin is beyond their control.  But only evil people want to do heinous things.  How many men want to crush a woman's skull with a tire iron and rape the corpse, as Ted Bundy did?  Was the desire to do this Bundy's free will choice?  Plantinga acknowledges that God might interfere with Maurice's decision to have oatmeal for breakfast by inflicting him with an equine obsession that makes it psychologically impossible for him to refuse oats.  I am by no means convinced that Bundy did not suffer from a more sinister obsession.  

At any rate, since God knows who will "choose" to become evil, why not NOT CREATE THOSE PEOPLE?  Plantinga ignores this question.  He says, "God could not have created any of the possible worlds containing just the persons who do in fact exist, and containing moral good but no moral evil" (p.48).  He claims that God cannot create a world in which people do not have "transworld depravity."  I had to reread Plantinga's explanation of transworld depravity several times before I could convince myself that he actually says what he actually says.  Stripped of the obfuscating logical symbols of which he is so fond it goes like this:  There are two worlds identical in every way except in one Bundy kills the woman, and in the other he doesn't.  But if the world in which he doesn't kill the woman is going to be as much like the actual world as possible, then if this world were actual, then he would have killed the woman.  It says nothing except that if Bundy actually exists, and he has free will, he must kill the girl.  It is a fatuous argument that never addresses why Bundy should be obsessed with evil in the first place.  

Plantinga argues that natural disasters that we typically refer to as "acts of God" are actually the free will acts of demons.  Although earthquakes are explained quite well by plate tectonics, Plantinga insists it is not irrational to insist demons pushing the plates around.  This is so inane I cannot even comment on it.
(Peter Payne, author of CAPTAIN CALIFORNIA BATTLES THE BEELZEBUBIAN BEASTS OF THE BIBLE
