This is not a biography of the humble young Mohawk woman whose courage, holiness, faith, and purity earned her (as thousands who know and love her truly believe) that place in Heaven.  This book, in the author's own paraphrased words, is meant to "bring Tekakwitha down from heaven."  (And it is part of a gloomy trend to do just that - to as much as one can to bring one's subject down.) And, thankfully, despite over two hundred pages of trying, he has not succeeded in dragging her down.

There are people who were primarily historic figures and those whose lives are mainly of religious significance. Blessed Kateri (or Catherine, as the author prefers to call her) Tekakwitha was very clearly the latter.  But this book approaches her from the former point of view, making her a postmortem pawn in the Jesuit's missionary work among the natives in Canada.  The mystical and the supernatural (from a religious view) are ignored.  The author seems even unwillingly to use the title of "Blessed" in reference to her.  

At one point, the author even seems - in a very subtle way - to imply the Kateri and her closest friend (Marie-Therese Tegaiaguenta)were lovers.  If, as he writes, there is "no reason to think they were lovers," why mention it at all?  What does it serve?

The author dwells on each and any discrepancy in the original accounts by the two missionaries who knew Kateri during the last years of her life.  (Even the Bible - in all its various popular translations - has its discrepancies.)  Any story of any person, any account of any event is bound to have differences when told by two different witnesses.  That alone is not enough reason to discount the differences.

His grim portrait of Kateri in no way accounts for the great numbers of people (not only Native Americans, but from around the world) who have a profound love for this holy young woman.  
I can speak from my own experiences and observations that she has had a great impact even on people who knew little or nothing of her.

Historians may find this book of interest, but for those who have a devotion to this wonderful saint-to-be, there is little to recommend it.

On a personal level, I have been studying the life of Blessed Kateri for a number of years.  My personal collection includes nearly a hundred works of literature on her.  These range from reprints of the original biographies by Fathers Chauchetiere and Cholonec to fluffy, sentimentalized (to the point of being quite ridiculous) books for young readers.  

I am also the creator of the web site mentioned on page 241 of this new book.  I work for and look forward to the day when she is finally declared a saint.  

I pre-ordered this book many months ago and read it with an open mind as I am always eager for new details on her life.  For me, it was a dull read (the narrative flow seems uneven) with left me unimpressed (not with Catherine Tekakwitha) and with a very unpleasant taste.

Historians, cultural anthropologists, and the politically correct may find something of interest in this dry and dreary book, but for those who have a devotion to this wonderful saint-to-be, there is little to recommend it.	

(I gave it one star because there is no lesser option and, well, my site was mentioned in the Notes to Chapter 9.  I suppose I owe it something.)	

