This book is an easy read, but unsettling. The anecdotes are particularly engaging. Yet, several of the themes in this book seem more to mislead rather than help the reader understand the nature of organizational politics. Reardon implies that there is an exclusive insiders group, which one can enter using political savvy. It makes for a good marketing since everyone wants to know `secrets' to success.  However, this exclusive insider's club is more myth than reality. More realistically, there are those who have high credibility with each other. One's credibility with others is worth its weight in gold and is indispensable for career success.  Such credibility is earned, sometimes by favoritism but more often by competency and gaining the trust of others. Being part of several credibility networks can increase one's favorable visibility. Learning how to use these networks can amplify one's influence.

 

Reardon suggests that being politically astute is more important than job performance. Sometimes that is the case, but more often job performance is necessary, if not sufficient.  Reardon seems to have bought into the amoral Machiavellian stereotype of organizational politics. She says, "Simply put, politics is an illegitimate means of getting things done." President Harry Truman said, "Politics is the art of getting things done." He was not known as an amoral man. 

 

Getting active in politics without an ethical base creates the risk of coming across as a `shark'. This perception can actually lower one's credibility with important others.  Reardon defines political savvy as an interpersonal skill. This definition unfortunately omits the strategic level. Charting influence strategies, people can make things happen by navigating issues through turbulent political waters. In contrast, this book seems more about local face-to-face politics than organizational politics and more about getting ahead than getting things done.  

 

Where this book shines is when it comes to communication skills related to politics and political situations and in its balance of both genders in its anecdotes.  In addition, it contains important insights for defending one's self against negative politics. The quizzes included in the book provide valuable diagnostics about one's negotiating and leadership styles.
