If you want a biased and misleading account of the Arab war against Israel, this ought to satisfy you.

Shlaim tells us that Jabotinsky, in discussing Zionism explained that "if the cause is just, justice must triumph."

I think Jabotinsky made a very good point here.  You see, human beings will, if given the chance, tend to buy land in the places they wish to live in.  The ones who can make best use of the land and wish to do so will be the high bidders for the land.  If injustice consists of stealing that land from them and justice consists of letting them buy the land and keep it (which they will wish to do if they are offered only low prices for it), then it is easy to see what the triumph of justice would mean here.  In particular, it would mean a prosperous Israel and a triumph for Zionism.

Shlaim appears to have missed all this.  To him, Zionism is unjust.  And to him, the triumph of terror and theft is both forthcoming and desirable.  He tells us that a new independent Levantine Arab state "is inevitable."  I disagree.  It may be likely.  But it would serve no purpose.  It would not help Jews, Arabs, or others.  Its only purpose would be to damage Israel.  The people of such a state do not as yet have an independent language, religion, culture, cuisine, or foreign policy.  So I think there is still hope that sanity may prevail here.

Shlaim also tells us that this new Arab state will be "weak, demilitarized, and territorially divided."  Is it just possible that this, if true, provides even more reasons why neither side might want to create it at all?   And could that make the appearance of this state even less inevitable?  Or at least less desirable?  

And the author also explains that both sides in the Arab-Israeli conflict will have to make "painful compromises," and that Jerusalem will have to be "the subject of hard bargaining." 

Really?

Is having peace and prosperity with reasonable borders a painful compromise?  For either side?  Of course not.  Shlaim is kidding us if he expects us to believe that war, poverty, and destruction are somehow less painful.

Had Shlaim been writing about France and Germany, we'd have seen at once that the whole viewpoint is nonsense.  He'd have been telling us that the German National Socialists needed an independent state in France, either to replace all of France or part of it.  He would have laughingly dismissed French claims on the basis of the entire idea of France being unjust!  He'd have sternly explained that a German National Socialist state in France was both desirable and inevitable.  And he would have discussed the necessary "painful compromises" for both sides and the "hard bargaining" about Paris.

There are plenty of reasonable books about the Arab war against Israel.  This isn't one of them
