...clearly an argument that displays first a loyalty to a specific outcome, and then seeks a way to get there.  

Rauch does well not to demonize the opposition, who, certainly, can be their own worst enemies when it comes to debating the issue, trotting out canned phrases like "family values," and "the sanctity of marriage."  

Nevertheless, his assertion that allowing gays to marry will strengthen the instution misses the point entirely.  First of all, he rightly recognizes that marriage is not just a religious institution, it is a social one.  By legalizing gay marriage--and even civil unions--you are forcing people not only to accept, but to endorse behavior that they find abnormal and morally abhorrent.  Like it or not, marriage is, by definition, the union of a man and a woman; it has never been anything else, until very recently in those mercifully few countries that have legalized it.  Dismissing this fact as a reactionary loyalty to tradition doesn't change it.  

Gay marriage probably won't weak the instution of marriage as a whole--it is on shaky legs as it is--but it certainly won't help it.  The state regulates marriage as it is--we are NOT free to marry whomever we want, and just because we might want to badly, that doesn't make it our right.  It is government's job to protect the interests of its citizens, and clearly citizens feel they have a very strong interest in NOT redefining marriage.  And in fact, gays do have the same rights as the rest of us, contrary to what Mr. Rauch suggests.  Gays are free to marry a member of the opposite sex, within the boundaries set by law.  That they don't want to is hardly society's fault, and hardly a reason to change a fundamental social institution, just to satisfy their desires.

His arguments that gay marriage is not a slippery slope remain unconvincing.  If objective values like tradition are so easily discarded to accomodate a small minority of malcontents, then what logical reasons can there be not to accomodate other malcontents? Does this mean that we can realistically expect people to petition to marry their dogs?  Of course not.  But is there really a compelling argument, then, for continuing to outlaw polygamy?  No.

I agree with Rauch regarding leaving the argument to legislators rather than the judiciary.  Most Americans despise the idea of having a judiciary shove its values down our throats, and this more than anything is probably what has given traction to the anti's position.  As a matter of strategy, it's bad for gays; as a matter of policy, it's bad for America.


