This is about Socrates Fortlow. He was named that because his mom thought that naming him after a smart man would entice her son into doing smart things. What happened was, "Socco," as his friends call him, ended up in prison for thirty-plus years for homicide and rape. Nice job, Mrs. Fortlow.

Socco has been out of prison for eight years. Now he lives in Watts, California, in a small little place that is never clear whether he is living there officially or he just broke in and made the place his own. No one cares and no one asks questions. But there is always a problem with heat and he uses a portable stove to cook his food.

It's a mess when you get out of prison. You've done your time, you've seen terrible things, no one wants to hire you for a job, you're hard as nails when before - you were just cautious. When you get out of jail, there is no cautious. There is survival and there is question. Should I kill this man? Do I want to get into more trouble? Is it worth it?

I have never been to prison. But I know lots of people who have changed since I'd known them years before. This book is so true to that ideal that it is not even funny.

Socrates meets Daryll, who has killed the rooster that used to wail in the morning hours even though he was getting too old to do it. In Socrates' words, "at least the m*********er tried." When Daryll kills the rooster to try to sell it, Socrates catches him and flips. He holds the boy in his house through threat and makes him skin the thing and they eat it. It is a lesson on doing what is right and the rewards of finding gleefull justice in doing wrong. Strange, right? Well,. this is just a segment of the story. 

Socrates sees Daryll again, but the whole book is built upon the various things that Socrates sees thoughout. We have to deal with several retribution stories in which Socco tells one or two people how wrong they are and how they should change. Then, we see stories about how Socco is tempted and either gives in or does not give in to temptation. It's very hodgepodge, but meant to culminate later on in a story that understands itself at the end. But it doesn't.

There are some things that are truly riveting, but they don't hang on long enough for me to feel like Mosely understands present day as well as he does the past, hence his success with the Rawlins and Jones novels. He has an argument about repspect with a married man while waiting for a bus. It's awesome! Some things aren't so awesome, like when he argues with the guy in the "restaurant" about selling out his people for money. There are little segments like these that are meant to "teach" but have nothing to do with the story. But, then again, they do. They help Socrates get his point across as a character, but that does not wholly help the reader. And you gotta help the reader, otherwise no one will read. Some people will call these tidbits short stories...but these is no reason to think so. Evereything looks like it should have been an ongoing tale.

I was glad to see Mosely get down and cover some stuff that is done in modern-day times, but he really blew it. I love this character so much, I feel that he deserved better. Instead there is a lot of this and that and other "that" which is only understood by the writer. It's pretty pedestrian, not what I expected from my favorite writer of the modern era. 

I see that a movie has been made of this. Some screenwriter has made sense of this mess. I will see it, though it was made with Larry Fishburne as Socrates. I would have sent Danny Glover to the gym for two months and cast him. He has huge hands, like Socrates, and fits the age requirements. But, what do I know
