I give this book a low rating because of the misinformation that Nicholas Wade has presented and in the manner it was presented, "DNA and the Secret Family of Thomas Jefferson."
This most difinitive "unproven" statement leads the unsuspecting reader to believe that he "seems" to know so much about genetics and early man that he knows all about the Jefferson-Hemings DNA Study and for what "reason" he sees fit to include it into a serious scientific book as being very suspect as mentioned by some reviewers. He seems to not associate science and truth together as it pertains to the Jefferson-Hemings controversy. Unless I overlooked it, I saw no reference to the excellent work that genetist  Spencer Wells is performing for National Geographic Socity.  I assisted this study by providing access to Jefferson DNA  sources. The result of a match was found in the early Phoenicians,(Caanites mentioned in the bible)and in lands that today are Syria and Lebanon.  

From what I know of the study (I assisted Dr. E.A. Foster with the DNA study), Mr. Wade's analysis of this is extremely limited, in fact, it is extremely biased. "Thomas Jefferson fathered an unacknowledged family with his slave mistress Sally Hemings" (pg 257). What truthful fact does he have to give this statement? He makes the most of giving details by lying James Callender and lying Samuel Wetmore/Madison Hemings in Pike Co., Ohio. Why the details in a book topic such as this? I will give you serious readers on the serious DNA topic my opinion. As you may see in my several reviews of other biased books, these authors know nothing of the details of the DNA Study but spread old early biased media tales. He did not inform you that a team of blue ribbon scholars (13 senior professors) for the Scholars Commission ([...]) and determined that there is no proof that Jefferson is guilty of these charges. You may read on my web page: www.angelfire.com/va/TJTruth all the details of this study. 

He cannot plead ignorance of the details because I sent him my research early in the media blitz and any reporter not using the many search engines to thoroughly search a subject is most suspect in my opinion. Can any serious researcher read his book and believe he/she is receaving accurate knowledge. My knowledge of the other topics he has written about is limited, BUT I do know this Jefferson-Hemings Study and he has done no current or original research. He references Annette Gordon-Reed as some type of "authority" on the controversy. She was charged by the Scholars Commission Report as having completely rearranged a letter from Jefferson's grand-daughter to give a negative meaning to her words. To add insult to his otherwise feeble attempt to influence your thinking, Wade has a figure with the title, "Thomas Jefferson Family with Sally Hemings.(Pg.260-261)." His lack of knowledge of Sally Hemings and Thomas Jefferson is most lacking in current research because he goes into details that Martha Jefferson and Sally Hemings are half-sisters (an old political rumor brought forward by people wishing to confuse readers and to be politically correct. 

He does not mention a very scholarily book by Dr. and Mrs. James McMurry, "Anatomy of a Scandal, Thomas Jefferson and the Sally Story", who did deep research on this rumor and found it a lie designed to fit earlier political mud slinging. Since he did not give the reader another source for study, another VERY interesting book, "Jefferson Vindicated, Falacies, Omissions,and Contradictions in the Hemings Genealogical Search", I will tell you it has a foreword by former Monticello Director, James A, Bear, Jr. All of the named books, including, "The Jefferson-Hemings Myth" are available through Amazon. 

I do agree with Wade's last sentence on the Jefferson-Hemings controversy......."Some mysteries lie beyond the power of even DNA to resolve." I might add that contrived history is intertwined with DNA and even the Hemings will NOT permit the gathering of "another" Hemings DNA source.....only ONE originally tested.

Herb Barger
Jefferson Family Historian
herbar@comcast.net          
