NOTE: MY TOPIC IS ABOUT THE WIND DONE GONE AND NOT SLAVERY(which I hate)!

Not liking the negro portrayal in GONE WITH THE WIND,Alice Randall therefore created her own version, a parody of the acclaimed southern classic.Therein lies the problem.

The trouble with parodies,it so intertwind with the original that it can be used as a sequel,a retelling or a new story with characters copied from the original but this time superior while degrading the original.So much so,readers begin to accept these false truth as the true truth.Not openly but in disguise, words like "what if" & "perhaps".Why?Because people always like scandals to famous chracters fiction or not.When that happen, a novel,even w/ the purest intent and purpose,gets butchered.

Here are some cases to prove my point & where the book failed:

1.THE PARODY/CONCEPT ITSELF-The whole purpose of this book is to show negroes aren't dumb and capable.If you read GWTW,as others call it"White-washed"&"Romantized",is in fact a love story.Plus Mitchell was trying to show how a civilization changes after a war,what better way to illustrate it than the old south?

But why portray negroes like that?
Obviously these fools didn't see Aunt Pitty,Hugh Elsing or Ashley.Aren't they white,helpless,pathetic and idiots?

If you read GWTW, What about the courageousness&modesty of Pork,The industriousness
&loyalty of Dilcey?What about Uncle Peter who single handly raised Charles&Melanie,who looked after and Protected Aunt Pitty?What about Rhett and Scarlett declaring Mammy as a smart old soul?Aren't these persons Negro and admirable traits?

2.MAMMY KILLING THE 3 SONS-In p.663 GWTW, a yankee tells Scarlett "do you think i can trust my babies to a negro?" She thought otherwise,and now Mammy kills Gerald's sons.Its thesame as saying negroes can't be trusted and they kill white babies and Randall was trying to show Negroes in a different light.This damages her&the book's credibility.Noble as her intent,but no good can come out of evil means.Its better to kill 10 people than 1 baby,as the saying goes.

3.GERALD/MAMMY-Check the background story of Ellen/Gerald.There can be no doubt of his fidelity.It takes a great deal of emotion for a person to get unhinged after a loved one's death.

4.CYNARA-She is an exact copy of Scarlett even their ages are thesame but this time she smart,beautiful,brown,a good mother compared to Scarlett.She even has Scarlett's strength & Rhett even prefers her.Ridiculous!if Rhett likers her than Scarlett he would've married her instead,or divorce scarlett after he have is way with her,Rhett boast of being ill-bred so his rep. wont matter.Why this nonesense of mistress and after death marriage?

The book,despite being well-written,feels like a parasite after reading created by a first-time author who wants instant fame,fortune making others accept and embrace that her work is better while destroying others hard work. If you want a book about the attrocities of slavery then buy UNCLE TOM's CABIN which is BETTER than this one.

NOTE: MY TOPIC IS ABOUT THE WIND DONE GONE AND NOT SLAVERY(which I hate)!
