No matter how bad a book seems to start off, I try to give it at least 100 pages before I write it off. That sentence alone should tell you all you need to know, as far as my experience goes. I got to page 125, finally calling it quits 25 pages beyond my own minimum, having had enough to satisfy myself that it had little chance of getting better. I'm not sure it's bad, so much as it's...well, I guess I have to say it's bad. It's a bad book. What he tries to do with this book and what he accomplishes are such different entities, I have to believe the end result is not what the author thought he was getting. I cannot, in good faith, recommend this book to anyone.

This is not to say that it's all bad, because it's not. There are some moments in the story when I found myself genuinely interested. Yet those moments are a pebble in this pond of non-intrigue. Toted as a modern day Tom Robbins by some, it is painfully clear that the author is trying to write in the same style as Robbins. It's also painfully obvious that he fails miserably at doing so.

It may turn out that the remainder of this book was excellent. I guess I'll never know since, as I mentioned above, I gave up after 125 pages. But I have my doubts. I wasn't about to torture myself further to find out. I'm not Ferdinand Magellan. I don't have endless hours of time to waste exploring apparent waste lands in the hope that something comes of it. Perhaps waste land is a bit strong, perhaps not. The book is silly, which I'm not adverse to given that I read Adams and Moore and, as mentioned, Robbins. However, this goes beyond silly, which turns out to be just plain dumb. It's a fine line, which the author isn't able to toe.

I'm turned off by this tendency to write off silliness as a foregone conclusion, as the author does here. The segues from one 2-sentence paragraph to the next don't flow, which makes sitting down for more than 3 minutes an effort. This was yet another problem I had with the book. It appears the author doesn't want you to sit down and digest any more than 2 pages at a time. I sat down one day to try and bite off a solid 50 pages, which is the day I tossed the book aside for good.

There are scores of books better than this one, assuredly. Books by Tom Robbins, Douglass Adams, Kurt Vonnegut, or Christopher Moore come to mind. I suggest going out and finding one of them before picking this up
