"The Passing of The Great Race" was one of the racialist books written between 1855 and 1920 that would strongly influence the the National Socialist Party. The first was Gobineau's "The Inequality of The Human Races", the second was Houston Stewart Chamberlain's "The Foundations of The Nineteenth Century", the third was this one, and the fourth was Lothrop Stoddard's "The Rising Tide of Color Against White World Supremacy". Grant was a lawyer and conservationist who was a firm beleiver in the Old Order, free of Bolshevism and Socialism and centered around an Anglo-Saxon culture. Grant always tried to portray himself as more scientific than romantic racial theorists such as Chamberlain, but his theories actually have little scientific basis. For example, his division of Whites into Nordic, Alpine, and Mediterranean Races is anchored only on the basis of Nordic Scnadinavians having blonde hair, Alpine Slavs having brown hair, and Mediterranean Italians having black hair. Even worse is Grant's lack of historical basis. He considers the French, Southern Germans, and Poles to be a mix of Teutonic or Celtic Nordic peoples and dark-haired Alpine peoples who invaded Europe from Asia, but there was never any record of Asiatic peoples reaching France or Germany, at least not after the Celtic period. His classifications of Alpine are also very flimsy. He considers Southern Germans to be of Alpine stock, completely ignoring the fact that Southern Germans speak a Teutonic language and often have Teutonic features such as blonde hair and blue eyes. He also considers the Walloons of Belgium to be Alpine, ignoring the fact that they are descendants of the Celtic Belgae, who the Romans clearly described as being tall with blonde and red hair {sounds Nordic to me}. He also claims that the Irish and Welsh have substantial amounts of Mediterranean blood, ignoring the fact that both those peoples are Celtic and often have blonde or red hair. The most puzziling part of this whole thing is how this book became so popular when practicaly everyone is labled as inferior. Grant considers the only pure Nordics to be people with blonde hair and blue eyes, so why did people like Teddy Roosevelt {brunett} endorse it? Grant's book just lacks any spirit. I've read Chamberlain's "Foundations of The Nineteenth Century", and anyone who is of Celtic, Teutonic, or Slavic stock and is anti-Semitic will be riled up with the romaticism of the "Germanic" race being in constant battle with the Jews for survival. Anyone who has Celtic, Scandinavian, German, Anglo-Saxon, Polish, or Baltic ancestry is included in this Germanic race, while Grant tends to alienate anyone who isn't a blonde, blue-eyed Anglo-Saxon or Swede, even putting the Germans down as inferior. This book should also be compared to Stoddard's "The Rising Tide of Color", which was written four years later. Stoddard also went by the Nordic-Alpine-Mediterranean model, but focused less on this than on the White Race as a whole. Stoddard was a visionary, looking to White issue in the future. While Grant clamored about keeping non-Nordic Russians and Italians out of the country, Stoddard warned that the real dangers are non-White Asians and Negroes. Grant's book has little relevance to today's issues, as practically every White American is a German-Irish-Polish-Italian mix. Stoddard, however, saw that all Whites had to band together against the "rising tide of color".                     
