There may be a point about many college professors being liberal and not conservative, likewise there are legitimate arguments about things like affirmative action,  but like most liberal-bashing books this goes way overboard into the hysterical, such as using the term "brainwashing." GOPists are mad because universities haven't capitulated to them like the mainstream media, and that they still question them and teach things that are true without afterwards "balancing" them out with right-wing nonsense. If they had their way, universities would be "fox"-icized, further contributing to the intellectual decline of America.

If you want brainwashing, just turn on Fox News. In colleges, you're free to believe whatever you like, there are even conservative clubs on campuses. Just because professors usually are liberal (as are most intellectuals) doesn't equate with "brainwashing." And it's funny, I know many people who are Republican who've completed college, I guess their supposed "indocrination" doesn't work that well after all. 

If college professors usually hold liberal views (most extremely smart, educated people do), it's not because there's any sort of conspiracy, but because conservative views are often anti-intellectual and put ideology over facts and reality. Many modern conservatives want creationism taught as a valid theory alongside evolution, dismiss real science supporting things they don't find convenient (such as global warming), view dissenting opinions with contempt, and generally hate intellectuals and thinking, educated people ("liberal elites"). If one view makes more sense, and the other is incompatible with academia, it's not the fault of the universities. 

I guess if conservatives and Republicans want their views to be taken seriously among academia, they'll have to make it more intellectual and be able to change aspects of their beliefs when they turn out to be completely wrong and unsupported by evidence. They could start by admitting there aren't WMDs in Iraq after all, evolution and global warming are supported by science, and agree that people who disagree with them aren't necessarily evil, pushing a sinister conspiracy, or unpatriotic. It wouldn't hurt to stop hating or at least insulting intellectuals, admitting that maybe people who are experts in a certain topic know more than they do about it.
As long as they consider Ann Coulter a cutting-edge thinker, they won't be taken seriously
