... bears some examination: 

Ms. Odean doesn't have children, has never had children, and is seldom seen in the presence of children. Though that doesn't disqualify her from evaluating children's literature, it does suggest some limitations. 

But that's not the whole story. Ms. Odean is married to Professor Ross Cheit of Brown University. This isn't an irrelevant point; Mr. Cheit has made an academic career out of his "recovered memories" of childhood sexual abuse. (Google him and see -- it's pretty scary and controversial stuff.) He believes, essentially, that subjective, recovered memories of abuse -- for which there is no evidence but the insistence of the subjective memory of the recoverer -- should be grounds for criminal prosecution and incarceration. 

The courts, as you might imagine, seldom agree. That doesn't stop Mr. Cheit from trying to accuse people in the absence of demonstrable wrong. I know from personal experience that when Mr. Cheit goes on the warpath to pursue an allegation of abuse for which there is no substantial evidence, Kathleen Odean is right there with him, cheering him on and drinking the Kool-aid. I believe she, like Ross, sees a world in which perpetrators are everywhere and are infinitely resourceful and adept at covering their tracks -- thus the very absence of evidence should be considered as proof of perpetration. While I agree that children should be taught to be cautious with strangers, I'm not sure that Ms. Odean's perspective doesn't verge on the paranoid. Her perspective isn't just cloyingly PC, as other reviewers here have complained; it's worse: there are themes of cultivated mistrust in the goodness of people and the world. 

I, for one, don't think this is a healthy or helpful perspective from which to draw guidance on children's literature. Ms. Odean's world is Ross Cheit's world: full of suspicion and doubt, with perpetrators imagined everywhere, and is completely bereft of any actual experience raising her, or anybody else's, children. 

Personally, I'd rather make my own decisions about my children's literature, and not invite the perspective of somebody who presents themselves as an expert -- yet around whom there are so many dark themes, sinister question marks and absence of first-hand experience of children
