This is not Overy's best book.  There is a "hand-wringing" quality to his writing, as though he were afraid of offending someone, perhaps due to its being written for the BBC.  And he fudges in a big way British pre-war bungling regarding the Rhineland and Czechoslovakia, and Stalin's role in the purge trials.  

Part of the explanation for the whitewash of Stalin can be found in the publications dates:  The first edition of this book was published in 1989, so it was written BEFORE the fall of the Soviet Union, whereas the second edition came out in 1999, afterward.  I don't have a copy of the first edition for comparison purposes, but I do have Overy's "Russia's War", which came out in 1997, in which he is very clear about Stalin's direct role in the purge trials.  It appears that Overy didn't go to the trouble of revising this material for the second edition "The Road to War", perhaps thought "Russia's War" was enough.  But he could at least have made reference to his newer work, rather than let his older misinformation stand uncorrected.

Overy obfuscates the British role in Hitler's remilitarization of the Rhineland in 1936 and in selling out the Czechs at the Munich debacle in 1938, but I'm not sure why he thinks he can get away with this.  The historical record of British indifference and French trepidation is quite clear in both instances.    

He goes on for pages about FDR's problems with the Isolationists, but never once mentions Harold Nicolson's now well-known 1939-41 secret U.S.-based propaganda campaign against American neutrality. 

Andrew Wheatcroft's chapter on Japan is pretty good.

Overy is a good writer, which can lead one to believe that one is learning a great deal while reading his books.  But at least in this book Overy neglects the first task of the historian, which is to tell us WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED.  Atmosphere is nice, but the facts have priority.

Suggestions for further (and better) reading:

Winston Churchill - "The Second World War", volume 1. 
Basil Liddell Hart - "History of World War Two"
Julian Jackson - "The Fall of France"
Richard Overy - "Russia's War" - based on post-1989 evidence, this is much better than the chapter on Russia in "The Road to War".  

Not recommended
