I think this quote from a review sums this up the best - "As we all know, we have the power to rule ourselves. This being said, what are we waiting for?"  If this were in a book from the world, I would expect a statement like that, but from a professing Christian?  I had control of my life for years and it progressively drove me further and further away from God.  Having control of our own life is the PROBLEM, not the solution.  The solution lies in surrendering control of our lives to the God who created us, not continuing in rebellion against Him.  When I was the ruler of my own life, it led to me breaking every single one of his moral codes that He gave to mankind.  Just look at them (the ten commandments) - 

1. I thought I was fine with this one - I didn't believe in Allah or Zeus or any other gods. Of course, I was still nowhere near keeping this one ("don't have any other Gods before me") - there were plenty of other things I put in my life before God. I'd rather sleep in than go to church. I'd rather watch tv than read the Bible, etc. 

2. I thought I was fine with this one because I didn't make any silly carved gods or idols. But I still made a god in my image. Every time I would say "why would God..." or "my God wouldn't..." or "I don't think God would...." I was making up a god in my image. Coincidentally enough, it was always happy with the things I was doing, but He was going to get all those other "bad" people. (Also, if you agree with Dr. Schuller that the key to knowing God is self-love and a positive attitude, you're guiltly of breaking this one also)

3. OK, I knew I was guilty of taking the Lord's name in vain and using it as a profanity, which was bad enough, but I was even worse than that. I was calling myself a Christian, yet I lived with my wife for years before getting married, never attended church or even had any idea what the Bible said and basically just living a competely ungodly lifestyle. While using God as a profanity is violating this commandment, what I was doing was taking the Lord's name (i.e. calling myself a CHRISTian) in vain in an even worse sense. 

4. I would also admit I was guilty of this one. No matter how you want to interpret the sabbath law, I wasn't putting aside any days for God, they were all for me. 

5. Honor your father and mother? Not even close. 'Nuff said. 

6. Don't murder? Good, I'm fine on that one - oh wait, Jesus said that whoever hates anyone is a murderer. Got me on that one too. 

7. No adultery? I was fine on this one too, I never cheated on my wife. Of course, as I already mentioned, I lived with her for years before we got married. I didn't see this as wrong because I had no idea whatsoever of the seriousness of this in God's eyes. Under God's law the penalty for adultery or any sexual sin was the same as murder. In the New Testament, it is clear that even professing Christians who don't honor their marriage commitments are only fooling themselves. That's because marriage isn't about us. Sure it's a wonderful, beautiful thing for us, but more importantly it was designed as an earthly expression of God's love for His people. Corrupting that gives a distorted picture of who God is which is why it is so badly under attack today, even from professing Christians. Some people think that if you're a Christian, you have to stop liking sex. Not true at all, I love sex. The Bible has a whole book in it about sex. According to 1 Corinthians 7 saying "not tonight dear, I have a headache" is a sin (and just before the guys get too excited about that one, it says that our bodies don't belong to ourselves, but to our spouses, and while the concept is obviously sexual, I think that if your wife wants to use your body to take out the garbage or do the dishes, that qualifies too). But God designed it and it needs to be done his way (and of course I disagreed with this, which took me back to the second commandment). But even more so - I was really in trouble with this one because Jesus said that whoever looks at a woman with lust has already commited adultery. Well, I was in trouble there. 

8. Don't steal anything? Well, I never stole anything big so I was fine. Doesn't matter, even when I stole toilet paper from the buildings on campus so that we wouldn't have to buy any for our apartment in college, that's still stealing. 

9. Don't lie. See my comments on honor your father and mother (which is actually kind of ironic, since when I tried to proclaim my honesty, sometimes I'd say "well, I lie to my parents sometimes, but that's ok.") 

10. Don't covet. See those same comments again. Don't want something that doesn't belong to you - if I told you that I've always kept this commandment, you'd probably die laughing and you don't even know me. 

But God's a loving God?

(these quotations are all from the New Testament and written TO CHRISTIANS)

"Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God." (1 Cor 6:9-10)

"For this you know, that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not be partakers with them." (Eph 5:5-7)

"Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like; of which I tell you beforehand, just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God." (Gal 5:19-21)

The reason Dr. Schuller's television show and books are so popular is because people want to feel good about themselves while continuing in their sins and yet still feel that somehow they'll still get to go to heaven when they die.  But there's one problem with this - why did Jesus have to die?  Dr. Schuller's gospel has no answer for this question.  But the Bible does.  The Bible looks at the sins that you and I have committed (and after reading that list, if you can honestly say that you have not sinned.... well, I have no answer for that other than to pray for you) and say that we deserve hell.  Hell is a real place (not just low self-esteem or any kind of hell on earth that we can imagine) full of pain and torture.  It's what we deserve, but God loves us and doesn't want us to go there.  So He took all those sins that you and I have committed and paid the price for them Himself.  He took the penalty for our transgressions so that we don't have to.  That's the true Gospel, and you can accept that forgiveness.  All you need to do is stop believing in a self-love gospel and recognize sin for what it is - sin.  Then turn from those sins and put your full trust in Jesus.  Stop reading these books and start reading God's Word - the Holy Bible.  He will not let you down.  You will move from death to life, your final destination will change from hell to heaven.

Please at least take the time to look into what I'm saying.  Right now there's a million and one things I'd rather be doing (and some I should be doing) than typing a review for something I completely disagree with, but I'm doing this for the exact reason that I mentioned above - HELL IS REAL WHETHER YOU BELIEVE IT OR NOT!  God doesn't want you to go there (just look at all the agony He suffered so you wouldn't have to) and I don't want you to either.

Hmmmm.... underneath this box to fill in this review it says "If you believe that the product you are reviewing is unsafe or has a defect that could cause injury or death, please report this information immediately to the Consumer Products Safety Commission (CPSC) https://www.cpsc.gov/incident.html or contact Amazon.com directly at product-safety@amazon.com." It's tempting, but I won't. ;
