I had always meant to get around to Eric Alterman's "What Liberal Media?" but had never had that wonderful intersection of a public library close by and the chance to waste my time on some stupid reading.  Well, I finally got both and enjoyed Alterman's book so much I began searching for other liberal reading on the subject and stumbled onto "Tailgunner" Joe Conason's "Big Lies."

I actually know little about Tailgunner Joe.  During the Clinton years of course I knew him as a propagandist for the White House, a reliable shill because of a lack of formal connection to the Clintonistas.  His best-known book is "The Hunting of the President," in which Clinton is portrayed as someone sort of walking down the street minding his own business when he's suddenly mugged by a bunch of right-wing thugs.  Definitely an "alt-history" novel.

To properly understand Big Lies, you've got to start off putting yourself into Tailgunner Joe's mindset to get an idea of what he thinks "liberal" and "conservative" mean in the first place.  If the man thinks that NPR is "politically balanced" (p 47), that ought to tell you something about his understanding of what is mainstream.

Now, as for the book itself.  The big lies start early and often, with comments like "Conservatives enjoy their virtual monopoly over the nation's political conversation...because -- unlike the supposedly mainstream media -- conservatives are perfectly willing to stifle opposition" (p 1) and "the most basic liberal values are political equality and economic opportunity" (p 2) and "liberals...regard the freedoms enumerated in the Bill of Rights as essential to the expression of popular consent" (pp 2-3).  The only thing stifled was my laughter when I read these passages.  For example, when's the last time a liberal defended the second amendment, or the ninth, or the tenth?

However, the book doesn't continue on that vein for long.  Big Lies is not so much an expos on the vast right-wing propaganda machine, but rather an extensive political tract of, to paraphrase Orwell, "conservatives b-a-a-a-d, liberals g-o-o-o-d."  It's similar to the Al Franken-Michael Moore-Molly Ivans books you see in the bargain bin at Barnes and Noble.  Most of the book (pp 53-212) is a rehash of the supposed sins of Republicans in general (the Depression, deficits, Iran-Contra, hypocrisy, overall meanness for cutting taxes for the rich, etc. etc.) and George W. Bush (Harkin Energy, Enron, TANG, Carlyle Group, cutting taxes for the rich, etc, etc,).  Tailgunner Joe even goes so far as to say that liberals fought the Revolution and to free the slaves, while conservatives were Tories and slavers (pp 69-70).  I'm not joking.

Admittedly, Tailgunner Joe does have some good points about the mainstream media and its political leanings.  He claims, for example, that more newspapers endorsed Bush in 2000 than Gore, including more major dailies (pp 39-40).  I found that surprising.  Assuming it's true.  He also claimed Lexis-Nexus searches reveal less, or no, labeling bias like that claimed by Bernard Goldberg (p 33).  I was surprised by that as well.  Assuming it's true.

But the book is weighed down by its errors.  Tailgunner Joe is a much better writer than Eric Alterman, but like Eric, Joe has a troubled relationship with facts.  When he's slinging mud, he's pretty good, because, after all, whether Rush Limbaugh is "xenophobic" (p 23) or the religious right is "openly hostile to the nation's traditional ideals of liberty" (p 96) or President Bush's political philosophy is "un-American" (p 184) is a matter of opinion.  But when Joe makes reference to actual facts, well, that's where he runs into problems.  Here are a few examples.

*  "survey evidence...suggests that Americans are still more liberal than conservative" (p 4).  Tailgunner Joe references the polls of the National Election Studies Guide to back up this claim (p 213), but a review of the actual polls he cites show conservatives consistently outpolling liberals (35% to 23% in the most recent survey).  You have to ask yourself whether Joe thought his audience would be too stupid or too lazy to actually verify his claims.  He probably thought we were both.  Meanwhile, according to the August 2004 Battleground poll, 60% of Americans considered themselves "very conservative" or "somewhat conservative" while only 35% considered themselves "very liberal" or "somewhat liberal."

*  "No conservative presidential candidate has won a majority of the popular vote since 1988" (p 7).  Now I suppose we can forgive Tailgunner Joe for this since he wrote his Big Lies in 2003, before Bush won re-election with 51% of the popular vote, but it does cast some doubt on his analytical abilities and his conclusions, does it not?

*  "But the conservative press would never publish a liberal equivalent to George Will" (p 50).  In response, two words: Al Hunt.

* Max Cleland is a "Medal of Honor winner" (p 67).  First, one does not "win" a Medal of Honor, one is *awarded* or *receives* the Medal of Honor.  See, e.g., 38 U.S.C. 1560(b).  But I suppose I shouldn't quibble with Tailgunner Joe trying to comprehend military parlance; it's foreign territory to him and he's doing the best he can.  Second, Max Cleland is not a recipient of the Medal of Honor, but rather the Silver Star.  There's a world of difference between the two.  To get the Silver Star about all you have to do is shoot a fleeing foreigner in the back.  To be awarded the Medal of Honor takes extreme bravery.

There's also the matter of distortions.  Big Lies is full of them, so I'll confine myself to some of the most obvious.

*  Most Washington-based journalists "identify their own politics as `centrist'" (p 40).  That may be true, but it's also true that *three times* as many journalists identify themselves as liberal as conservative (54% self-identify as "moderate," 22% as liberal and 7% as conservative; Pew Research Center poll, May 2004).  Taking that fact in, and that fact that journalists in general probably want to maintain the fiction of political neutrality, it's no surprise that a majority of journalists claim to be "moderate."

*  "Journalists generally reflect the same spectrum of viewpoints as any other group of college-educated, upper-middle-income, urban and suburban Americans" (p 41).  Assuming that's true, and assuming that this voting group is liberal (and it is, particularly in NYC, Washington and L.A., where the most influential journalists live), does that not disprove Joe's entire sub-thesis of "there's no mainstream liberal media"?

*  Tailgunner Joe finds it mystifying that John Ashcroft would be anointed in a manner "imitating the behavior of...ancient Hebrew kings" (p 99).  Let me help Joe out of his intellectual box.  A commandment to anoint is given to all saints in the New Testament, specifically James 5:14, when the Christian needs a blessing of health. (Aside: I had a liberal Jewish friend comment about this anointing to me in 2001.   My response: "Mark, what do you think of a vice-presidential candidate who, for religious reasons, one day a week cannot flip on a light switch?"  As you might imagine, that was the end of *that* conversation).

*  Terry McAuliffe's miraculous stock trade with Global Crossing is acceptable because Terry "did nothing illegal" (p 153), but Tailgunner Joe has no problem smearing the actions of Republicans involved in Enron (pp 149-152), even though they did nothing illegal either.  It's good to see an enunciation of a moral standard from a liberal, even a Klintonesque, legalistic one, but now if he'd stop being such a hypocrite by applying shifting standards to his enemies.

*  Tailgunner Joe constantly complains about right-wing buzz-phrases like "compassionate conservative" (p 177) and maybe he's got a point, but he indulges in the worst sort of left-wing clichd buzz-phrases himself, like "working families" (p 188).  What -- a "working family" has to be a family where both parents work?  Do all the kids have to work too?  Do the infants?  Does the family dog?  Give me a freakin' break.

*  There was "no lack of zeal" in Clinton's hunt for bin Laden (p 205).  Like the zeal in turning down the opportunity -- twice -- to kill or capture him in the mid-90s?  Tailgunner Joe has a peculiar definition of "zeal."  Sort of like Clinton's definition of "alone."

*  "Stringent anti-terrorism legislation" when proposed by Clinton is good (p 207) but when proposed by George Bush it is helping create a "nascent military regime" (p 102).

So read Big Lies for a few slivers of actual fact, and a few chuckles, and as a case study on use of invective.  But don't read it thinking your going to get an expos on the vast right-wing media conspiracy.  Tailgunner Joe Conason turned out to be a lot like that other Tailgunner Joe: fighting a rearguard action against real and imaginary enemies, to questionable effect
