There is little question in reading this how novelly attractive and biblically introduced the author makes it all SOUND. It SOUNDS so good to those inclined to favor this sort of mindset. All one needs is to take selective Bible verses and build one's case SOUNDING persuasive. A talented writer can influence the impressionable with as little effort as influenza germs.  

The question is: what does one desire to be contagious toward? What SOUNDS appealing or what is SOUND per se?

In assessing or offering critique of a book, many factors come into play, but the 2 most vital are, to use a food-factory analogy: Processing & Output. This book 'processes' adequately. But WHAT is processed yields inferior output and thus degrades the overall evaluation. All the proper processing in the world cannot compensate for a wrong result, faulty output.

What's the inherent problem leading persuasive processing into incorrect answer? INPUT. It's all about INPUT. GIGO. Garbled In Garbled Out. And what is the inappropriate input already decided before the Bible is even opened to 'prove the point'? Process Theology (unbiblically changing God's attributes to suit modern philosophical preferences) borrowed, adapted, modified, 'upgraded', synthesized from Charles Hartshorne. This is the core input that is put into the sausage grinder. Once all the sausage ingredients are input for processing, no matter how good the 'Process' sounds, the output will never be Bible Steak, but non-Bible sausage.

What many fail to understand (Millard Erickson in "What Does God Know & When Does He Know It?" exposes it clearly and fairly) is that Open Theism is a synthesis of Bible plus Hartshorne's philosophy. Like sausage, the ingredients blend lots of things into a hybrid. The evidence, even from Open Theists, is there on the internet for all to see, if they care to.

This is an amateur book of neo-philosophy for the uninitiated quoting one-sided Bible passages to bolster the decided-in-advance neo-belief system. It's backwards from the proper way of doing Theology: Start with Bible ALONE without philosophic pre-commitments and see what the Holy Spirit has to say in ALL verses on BOTH SIDES (not just the side favoring Open Theism).

The Bible by itself, without Process-like Philosophy, is Sound Steak. Open Theology, with Hartshorne's ideas in the recipe, is unSound sausage. Only the Bible on its own as the standard for evaluating competing man-made philosophies offers Soundness, not just what Sounds good to some.

Why settle for Open Theology sausage when the Lord offers satisfying, unsurpassable steak of Bible-alone Theology? 

 
