Though I did read the entire novel, let me tell you why I did. At first I thought it was okay (primarilary since I don't have time to read or I lose interest in books, so this book has been the first I've read within a couple of months since I found it at the library in the 'new' section), and then I just started to dislike it, but I thought it could get better so I continued to read it.. and then by the time I realized it wasn't going to get better, I figured I may as well finish it and conclude that I do, truly, dislike this novel. 

A few sentences in the 406 page novel did make me think it was okay, but all in all, this novel was something I thought could've been way better. I thought the author was a 40 year old woman trying to appear younger with her writing by adding more modern things like; Spongebob Squarepants and Ben & Jerry's ice cream, etc.. But take away those modern references and it's back to her plain, child/teen writing and very old-fashioned exclaimations.. and the word "murmured"- which I can't STAND- was in every other page- I swear it was..  So basically, the story was predictable and too simple.. The ending wasn't touching or funny- in fact- I don't even understand why she added that in the ending (for those who have read the novel)- Was that needed? Who cares- We already knew that.. 

In any case, I do not recommend that anyone buy this novel- Even if it's $1.00 on this website- Go to the library like I did and rent it out, realize you dislike it, and just put it down- save the trouble of boredom like I didn't do, sadly.. I was heavily disappointed and the story wasn't too clever, but rather.. bland. I, being 19 years old, can write a better story and have, but this story sounds like even a younger writer than I could have wrote it. So I am glad to have read the whole novel and realized I did truly dislike it and am able to inform other readers that they should not touch this novel.. It should be put in the pre-teens catagory if not for the mild sexual scenes and few swears it did contain that felt very out of place.

Thanks for reading my review!
-Al
