*Some minor spoilers*

A review of Betrayal (with a little bit of a review of Bloodlines as well thrown in.)

There is nothing wrong with the book itself, it is well written, engaging, and interesting.  Plot lines from previous books are intertwined throughout and there aren't any blaringly obvious inconsistencies with previous books or movies.  

One very interesting and kind of fun part about this book is the fact that now that all 6 movies are completed, sections of this series really help tie everything together.  Instead of kind of forgetting about the entire period of Darth Vader's demise, this book confronts it and engages the back story.  

Overall though, this book, and furthermore this series are a HUGE dissapointment.  Easily the most unbelievable plot for any Star Wars series I have read.  The whole time you read this book (and the second one as well) you keep thinking to yourself: "Oh come on, this is ridiculous."  Jacen can't honestly be this stupid.  His motivation for beginning to turn to the dark side is absolutely ridiculous.  As seen in Bloodlines (the second book in the series,) Jacen can "Time Walk" back in time and see how his grandfather Darth Vader made his decisions that led him to the dark side.  Jacen thinks that he can avoid the same mistakes his grandfather did when he just keeps making the same ones and it just feels dumb.  Reading this book (and the second, which is as far as I've gotten in the series) feels like watching the prequel trilogy all over again, just with different characters.  But the same dumb mistakes and stupid decisions throughout the story.  

The story is also incredibly predictable, as a reader, you know exactly where it's going (because you've seen it all before in the movies.)  It's obvious that at some point Lumiya is going to find out about Tenel Ka and her daughter and Jacen is going to have to confront them.  (I assume this happens in the third book as it's about the Hapes Consortium.)  It's just not very interesting.

Another complaint is the relation between Han and Leia and Luke and Mara.  Honestly, would a Jedi leader be dumb enough to ruin his relation ship with his siblings over some ridiculous Corellian dispute.  And why are Han and Leia even supporting Corellia, their involvement seems really out of place and awkward.  

Can't Star Wars authors come up with more creative and original stories than this?  Instead of rehashing the similar plots to previous series (e.g. the Prequel Trilogy) why can't writers come up with something original?  At least the New Jedi Order was a new, unique idea.  The worst thing about this series is that it is ruining the Star Wars universe that's been created so far in the New Jedi Order and stuff.  All this conflic is just getting ridiculous and books that take place after this seem like they will just be dumb.  We'll see I guess.  

Overall, I would not suggest this series for a Star Wars fan.  It is ruining the story, bringing back the same old plot that we've already seen, and ruining the well-developed Star Wars universe we already have. 
