I delayed writing this review because I don't like trashing anyone's work.  But this book is so infuriatingly bad that I finally felt compelled to blow off steam.  O'Hara deserves better.  The reader certainly deserves far better.  And Knopf, a one-great publisher in sad decline, should have either done extensive editing on this horribly self-indulgent mess or simply not published it.  As an O'Hara fan (who recognizes his flaws as a writer and, certainly, as a man) and a born-in-&quot;Gibbsville&quot; insider, I assure readers that the author did not do the most basic research on O'Hara's home town.  On the contrary, Wolff appears to have fabricated a number of quotes he claims to have collected in Pottsville/Gibbsville.  But the voices don't sound like the voices I know, in tone or content, and the quotes suspiciously support the author's utterly inaccurate thesis that O'Hara's never been accepted &quot;back home.&quot;  Well, in downtown Pottsville, there's a handsome statue of O'Hara.  Every year, there's a &quot;John O'Hara Weekend,&quot; with performances, readings and seminars.  O'Hara still appears so often in local newspapers and magazines that you'd think he was still living and writing.  I grew up reading his work--and never heard any of the silly, parochial--and, of course, anonymous--criticism Wolff claims to have encountered immediately upon arrival during his apparently brief visit to Pottsville, the inspiration for so much of O'Hara's greatest fiction.  And Wolff even gets basic facts wrong, from ethnic composition to the location of hotel bars.  Later in the book, as well, he continues to indulge his habit of quoting anonymous sources who perfectly support his eccentric, self-adoring themes.  And the prose itself is a mix of trash bio that makes Kitty Kelly read like Boswell and gonzo-tone scream-of-my-precious-consciousness slop that should have been submitted to the author's psychiatrist, not to a publisher.  Poor O'Hara--his own worst enemy during his life, now afflicted with biographers who are his worst enemies after death.  O'Hara was a great, if flawed, author, currently underestimated.  Indeed, he merits a serious critical biography that does more than simply repeat the traditional wisdom that his late, sprawling novels had little merit; on the contrary, despite their flaws, novels such as A Rage To Live and From The Terrace offer incomparable social portraits of America during the first half of the 20th century--and his first novel, Appointment In Samarra, is flawless, a middle-class (though not middle-brow) Gatsby.  I recommend reading his own work, rather than this appallingly bad pretense at biography.  Finally, I apologize to all, even to the author, for writing such a negative review...I would rather praise a book.  But this biography is so disgracefully bad that I felt obliged to warn other readers off.  Any of the earlier O'Hara bios would be a much better choice for those interested in O'Hara's troubled, troubling but remarkably productive life
