Well, this guy I have been hearing for several months among the on-line King fandom groups I am a member to, and me thinks that he is worth to check out---I go through his backcatalogue, seeing that aside from the Girl Next Door, almost identified with his name, there are a few more pieces which are highly praised...then me sees a story collection and thinking that short stories will be a good starting point for a new author to prevent any disappointment which rather cloaks on you with doorstoppers- so me orders it from Amazon UK, gets the book and starts to read it- then asks what the hell is happening?

Yes, me agrees Ketchum's writing is good- he is close to Stephen King and Peter Straub (you like his characteris- as is always in King books, characters have a life outside the pages of the stories) yes his prose is flowing (thank God there is another author better than the syrupy Dean Koontz in horror/ thriller segment)but what is lacking is substance- I know short story is a format of short tales, as its name suggests but should they be this short? Should every theme be a a story? take the story of father and son: The purpose? The excitement factor? The guessing factor? The building factor? No, no ,no It is as if Jack Ketchum, while jumping between house tasks, sat down on his way from kitchen to dining hall to bathroom and wrote a story each time. There are so many stories that it seems like a heaven at the first glance but you can easily cut three-fourth of them because they are...too pointless for the sake of heaven. 

some of the stories -Rifle,the Visitor and Megan's Low and Snakes- are true chillers and effective stories -another very good one one wtihout a chilling factor is the one that involves squirrel hunting but I cannot remember its name- It is as if the longer the story gets, the more effective Ketchum is- and then of course there is the Closing Time the longest story -almost a novella (taking intou account the length of stories in the book) but it is one of the most pointless things I have ever read in my life. And I cannot help but think that if I was to write more than 30 stories I think at least three or four of them would be effective- just like in case of Jack Ketchum

If it is not for Ketchum's prose, I would completely disregard him but it appears that his novels should be more effective. Skeleton Crew was the first book I laid my hands and devoured from Stephen King and it turned me into a semi-rabid fan- Night Shift was even better...But this is fully contrary in Ketchum's case: I am sorry to say that Ketchum loses me in his short form and his first impression on me is that he is not as creative as I think- just like Dean Koontz, he puts onto paper whatever comes to his mind- but thank God his prose saves him to the nnnth degree where Koontz cannot hold a candle in this respect (and thank God Ketchum, like King, equally treats animas, you do not feel there are only  smart cute golden retrievers around the globe)

Skeleton Crew made a score for King, making me a constant reader, but Ketchum should try once more (or several more times)
As usual my top three modern horror masters remain the same:

1. Stephen King
2. Peter Straub
3. Clive Barker

But the fourth place changes: Ketchum effectively pushes Dan Simmons and Robert McCommon one rank below:

4. Jack Ketchum
5. Dan Simmons
6. Robert McCommo
