What we have here is Moore retelling the stories of "Peter Pan", "Alice in Wonderland" and "The Wizard of Oz".  He strips the tales of their fantasy elements, placing the characters of Wendy, Alice and Dorothy in real life situations of sexual awakening.  Of course the idea of fairy tales and folklore carrying at their heart, themes of sexuality, is nothing new, but here Moore puts aside any pretense of masking those themes behind the fantastic.

We are delivered these tales from the mouths of the protaganists themselves, Wendy now middle aged, Dorothy several years into adulthood, and Alice apparently over 50.  The three meet as tenants in a French hotel on the eve of WWI.  Together they bond through their bizarre tales and form a three way affair, which is Moore's first mistake.  Far too much of the writing takes place in the present, and we are forced to bear witness to the laughable sexploits of the three.  I'm not adverse to sexual tension shown between the women, but page after page we are given graphic depictions of their encounters, complete with ridiculous banter.  The meat of "Lost Girls" should have been the tales themselves, but about half the writing is devoted to the asinine sexual escapades occuring at the hotel.

As for the tales themselves, they were inspired, particularly Wendy's tale, but the revelations contained within them not grand enough to warrant much more than a passing reflection.  I kept wondering when the series would redeem itself for such vulgarity, but it never fully did.

As for the art...  Apparently Melinda Gebbie was seeking to capture the feel of turn of the century children's literature, illustrations fitting for the original works from which this series pulled, but at that she fails miserabley.  Her work came off as completely uneducated and reminded me of Henry Darger ("Realms of the Unreal") minus the naive beauty.  Her splash pages succeed, but almost every cell in the books should have been rejected.  That brings me to an additional point- was anyone properly editing this!?  Time and again we are given errors in text, problems with the context of the writing itself, not to mention my previous complaints about moronic dialogue and far too much time spent with the women cavorting at the hotel, as well as a half baked tie in with the coming Great War.  Has Moore's past works made him immune from editorial criticism and censure?  It would appear so
