This is an interesting and insightful analysis of the current (as of January 2004)geopolitical environmennt with a particular focus on globalization and its projected overwhelming importance (in Barnett's opinion) in structuring the globe for the next several generations.  Readers will be fascinated to read that the Pentagon and by extension, the Bush Administration and at least one major multi-national investment/financial service firm (Cantor Fitzgerald), are apparently presuming that the future will be characterized by unrestricted global flows of capital, information, labor, and "security services".  "Security services" refers to US military intervention, as needed to insure the stability of the "Core" nations that participate in the aforementioned flow of capital, information and labor (yes, that means unrestricted immigration!).  Nations not qualifying as members of the "Core" are characterized as "Gap" nations, who will suffer from the absense of the information, capital, and labor enjoyed by the "Core".  They apparently will not miss out completely though, because those "security services" are likely to come their way.  Written for the most part in late 2003, the strength of the author's analysis is significantly undermined by his enthusiasm for the invasion of Iraq.  He seems to be willing to assume the success of that intervention, despite the fact that the criminal incompetence demonstrated by the administration was already evident in Iraq prior to publication.  I presume this to be evidence of a strong partisan bias.

In fact, lets put it this way.  By his own account, Barnett has made his living providing analysis and prognostications to the Department of Defense and particularly to the Department of the Navy, since 1990.  He spends more words describing his own education and qualifications than you might expect to encounter outside of an autobiography.  At least more than I can recall finding in any of the geopolitical tomes I've slogged my way through in the 40 years I've been afflicted with that particular interest.  The concepts that provide the meat of this book apparently were quite a hit with the POWERS THAT BE at the Department of Defense in the 2001 to 2003 time-frame.  Quite a trick really, when you consider the absence of pure Neo-conservative content.  Still, if anything is clear, Barnett suffers from succeeding with an audience notorious for its lack of critical thinking and a love for those who will tell them what they want to hear, even if that wasn't his direct intent.

He appears to be a globalization groupie who has aged very badly in just a few years.  Still, for $4.99, if you have a strong mind and time on your hands, the thought stimulation and insights are there
