Initially this novel will take you into the fear and complexity that surrounded the case of the killing spree caused by the Beltway sniper attacks in 2002.  I was intrigued to read about how tough it was for the police to tackle a "serial killer" that ultimately did not leave any kind of pattern in regards to victims' backgrounds or relations for which the police could build a case on.  Although some vilified Moose after the case was wrapped up, The book does not portray Charles A. Moose in a poor light in regards to the wild goose chase over leads such as the white box van, because at the time that was really all they had to go on. 

The problem with this inexpensive book that is centered on a modern day high profile crime is that it ultimately drowns in an accolade ridden biography of Moose himself.  Charles Moose was the Montgomery County, Maryland Police Chief who headed the investigation when the killings first happened.  The book lightly touches on the locales and victims, skimming over them in a consecutive and timely manner to constantly go back to what Moose was "going through".  The book spends way to much time going back into his history and background, and we ultimately learn more about his own family than the victims, or the eventual backgrounds and cause when the two men who are responsible for the deaths are apprehended and identified.

I just felt that this book was much more of a biography and "pat on the back" of Moose than of the overall case itself.  It doesn't do a good job of delving into the other agencies and people involved in researching the case, and does little to show the leads that really led to the capture.  If you want to know what was going through Moose's mind during all of this, then by all means get the book.  If you would rather learn more about the overall case and the other people who worked around the clock besides Moose to help bring justice to those involved, then I would recommend looking elsewhere.  Ultimately a disappointing read about this recent high profile crime in our country. 
