This book deserves credit for addressing men's needs for good sex, but is hit and miss for women.

A quote from the book:
     "We men have taken a lot of heat in recent years for our attitudes about sex.  We are told that we are obsessed with sex, expecially sex without love and commitment; that we push too hard for it and in inapproporate ways in both new and old relationships; and that we pout when we don't get what we want.  Such attitudes, we are told, are immature and maybe downritght sick.  But I think the criticisms themselves are wrongheaded and destructive.  Males can't help having their attitiudes, which are probably due at least as much to physiology as to learning.  Sex, afterall is live affirming, and there's no point in feeling bad about that."  End quote.

I believe that men have often hurt women (and their relationships with women) to fullfill their sexual urges, but author severely downplays this as if it were uncommon and less harmful than it actually is.   

The author gives a role-playing example on how to deal with conflict:
MAN:  I find myself in a strange place.  I agree with you that it's your body and I shouldn't touch you in ways you don't like.  So I'll do my best not to touch your breast roughly.  But I can't guarantee never to do it.  What feels rough to you comes from a strong feeling of lust.  I'm not sure I can always catch this impluse before I grab you.  I think I can do it most of the time.  But there my still be a few occaisions when I don't catch myself in time.  I may already be squeezing your breast before I remember.  It would help me a lot to know that you're not going to get upset if that happens occasionally.  Maybe you could just remind me of what I'm doing.  

End quote.

In my opinion the woman SHOULD get upset to the degree that it makes her feel violated.  If it does not bother her much, a reminder is all that is needed.  But what if it really does hurt her?

Women are very vulnerable during sex, and we need to feel safe. I would feel less safe with a man who read this book.  
