I don't want this to be misconstrued as a knock on the author, because I think he's a great author and a great writer.  I'm simply critiquing this particular book on what it's done for me...and that's not very much.  This book works if you've never written anything in your life and know absolutely nothing about writing, otherwise it's a bit of a waste of time.  It didn't offer me anything that I could learn from that I couldn't get from something else.  If I have to read another book that goes on and on about how the first thing about writing is you have to write, you have to write a lot and you also have to read a lot.  Forgive me, but I think most educated or even semi-intelligent people know that whatever your passion is, whatever you want to do in life, you have to do it.  Most don't need to be told.  You're already doing it because you love it, hence why you want to do it forever.  We don't need to be talked down to like an idiot and that's the problem with some of these thespian overly educated writers, is that their snobs and they write in a way that is condescending.  They are basically saying it's this way or forget it your wasting your time.  They didn't invent writing.  Writing has been around for centuries.  This book strongly emphasizes how important it is to outline and that you'll be doing it for the rest of your life, but it doesn't give you clear and excellent examples of something so critical.  Instead it gives you sample charts of time travel from his science fiction books.  If I had to hear one more comparison about what this author did with his science fiction books I was going to throw the book out the window.  I was really hoping for more actual writing tips on grammar and sentence structure, but no such luck.  I do have a couple fantastic writing books that I loved and I found to be absolutely beneficial and they are....  "Bird by Bird" by Annie Lamott and "On Writing" by Stephen King. Both of those books were funny and witty, entertaining and packed with very informative and helpful tips for the writer in you. They are much more evolved writing books to check out and help you get better at doing what you love most
