A couple of years ago I saw Jerry Fodor give a talk. One of the thought experiments he came up with: some guy is gesturing over his shoulder, saying, "the man standing behind me is one of the greatest philosophers of the twentieth century." He says this thinking that Rudolf Carnap is standing behind him, but in actuality, the man standing behind him is Groucho Marx. Now, I don't remember any of Fodor's analysis of this thought experiment and I don't really care. I think the question was, what does the assertion mean. Or perhaps just, what is asserted, if anything. Or who was referred to. 

This is one of those odd situations that come up practically only in thought experiments and that is supposed to shed some light on which theory of reference/meaning is the best one. But, as usual, you can analyze it without mentioning "reference". Either the person is confused, he thinks there is someone other than Groucho standing there, or he really thinks Groucho is a great philosopher, or he is Chico, making a joke, or he is literal-minded to a fault and by "one of the greatest" he means "one of the six billion greatest" or some such. None of these hypotheses would have seemed likely a moment ago, but now, in light of what the guy has just said, it seems that one of them or something else equally unlikely must hold. Which does? Obviously this is just a question of conditional probabilities; the notion of "reference" hasn't got any place whatsoever in the conversation. And for the most part, it never does. Now why is that? 

It's because pretty much all theories of reference agree in non-pathological situations, where there isn't any doubt as to what is being "referred to", and in pathological situations, no theory of reference is going to do you any good because nothing is *really* being referred to. (Nothing is being referred to in non-pathological situations either, by the way...it's just harmless and indeed expedient to assume so.) Any theory is likely to just lead you astray. In short, to even try to have a theory of reference is already to have been barking up the wrong tree. (Try to analyze the Groucho Marx example with your favorite theory of reference and you will do much worse than I will with my conditional probabilities.) 

About all to the good you can say about reference was said by Frege and Russell. When I heard that Evans was the philosopher who tried to defend Russell and Frege from the likes of Kripke, Strawson, Putnam etc. I decided to read his book. Well, I read it and found it to be utterly irrelevant to questions of meaning. What was so profound about Russell's work is that he was the first to recognize and articulate that most of the times one is taken to be "denoting" something, really one is just giving a description. Scads of "counterexamples" to this have proliferated since Russell died or was too old to defend himself. Since these alleged counterexamples aren't at all deep, and could easily have been come up with by any wayward graduate student in the 1920s, you'd think more people would be skeptical of them. Shockingly, however, they've been treated with a preposterous respect in the philosophical world. Unfortunately, Evans lacks the analytical acumen to answer these skeptics; his book clouds the issues even more. This is unfortunate, because these issues are as crystal clear as when Russell wrote "On Denoting" a century ago...it's just that nowadays, as opposed to in Russell's time, philosophers need to understand basic information theory. They need this in order to understand that a "description" isn't a pithy one or five or even hundred-line formula for what, say, "Socrates" might be in a world. A robust (my how I hate that word), information theoretic view of what a description, and hence a description-theory, is won't be troubled by any of this nonsense about how Socrates is the greatest non-writing philosopher of antiquity and yet it's contingent that Socrates did any philosophy at all. 

Nothing in Evans' book stuck in my brain. It's a shame he didn't live to complete it; somehow I think it would have been much, much better. As it stands, though, I can hardly tell what the hell it's even about and for my money, what's here isn't relevant to meaning. And this book costs a lot of money. Spend yours elsewhere.
