A few weeks ago, I happened to pick up a couple books by Ted Dekker, mainly because the plot summaries made them look interesting.  The first of these books, Three (or more properly, Thr3e), was a disappointment, but Dekker did at least show some ability with his plotting, so I decided to give my other book of his a chance.  Sadly, while Obsessed is slightly better than Three, it is still a weak effort.

The hero in Obsessed is Stephen Friedman, a realtor in 1973 Los Angeles.  Friedman - a secular Jew - is living a fast and fun life which is about to be turned upside down when he finds out his mother, who he never knew, had died.  Among the items she bequeathed to a Holocaust Museum was a Stone of David, one of five rocks that legend says David used to slay Goliath.  With the other four, the set could be worth a hundred million dollars.

The history of the stones goes back to a Polish concentration camp run by Gerhard Braun in 1944.  Braun is not only a Nazi, he is also a serial killer, a trait his son Roth has picked up as well.  In 1973, Roth comes to Los Angeles in search of the Stones and crosses paths with Friedman, who has learned a lot about his mother's history and of a girl named Esther who he seems destined to know.  Like the movie Laura, Friedman falls in love with a picture, in this case, that of Esther's mother Ruth (who he assumes Esther resembles), which will soon obsess him.

This novel has a lot of problems, principally because Dekker is not a very good writer.  For one thing, he is sloppy:  at one point he discusses Friedman worrying about streetlights at 7:30 on a summer evening, a time which would still be quite light out.  More significantly, Friedman is mentioned as being 31 years old, yet the story makes it clear he was born in 1944, making him only 28 at the beginning of the novel.  Plot points are left completely unclear, such as the fate of Friedman's friend, Sylvia.

Beyond the sloppiness, Dekker has more fundamental writing problems.  Despite the bulk of the story taking place in 1973, the reader rarely gets the sense of the time; sure, there are references to eight-track players and there are a couple stereotypical hippies, but for the most part, this could take place in 2007 with almost no noticeable effect.  And Friedman himself is a really weak character:  he's not very bright and he usually is reacting to situations instead of acting on them (actually, that's just as well, because when he tries to take action, he usually proceeds rather cluelessly).

I suppose that this can be categorized as Christian fiction (that seems to be the genre Dekker is associated with).  This has less to do with thematic material (however, religion does have something of a role in this story) than with the fact that the violence is strictly PG-13 and the romance (and language) is G-rated.  I've always had a wariness about this genre, not because of the subject matter, but because I feel that Christian fiction publishers don't focus as much on quality (although I'm sure some gems slip through) because they cynically assume they have an audience that is not as discriminating as long as the story is labeled "Christian" (the science fiction/fantasy field suffers a lot from this as well).  Unfortunately, Obsessed has done nothing to make me think any better of the genre.  If you like suspense fiction, read Michael Connelly, Lee Child, Jon Land or David Morell or a few dozen others, but avoid Dekker.
