Although Appelbaum's work won the Pulitzer prize & has received generally good reviews, she really has nothing new to offer.  This would not be a problem, however, she presents her work as being groundbreaking.  There are many good works on the Gulag by historians such as Oleg Khlevniuk,Galina Ivanova, and Amir Weiner.  Appelbaum focuses too closely on the intelligentsia, this is a natural occurrence given her reliance on memoirs, and misses or diminishes the experiences of peasants, prisoners of war, and the many national minorities that suffered as a result of relocation, exile, and collectivization.  As a history student, I am also confounded by her insistence that almost nothing is known of the Gulag, which is certainly not true.  George Kennan was writing about it as early as the 1950s, Conquest in the 1960s.  What she may have meant is that it has not captured the attention of American culture in the way that the Holocaust has.

Particularly disturbing are her comparisons of the Nazis/Holocaust and the USSR/Gulag.  The Gulag was truly horrible, but the entire history of the Soviet Union is not representable solely with the image of the Gulag.  As for whether or not the Russian's have come face-to-face with their past, anyone who has spent any length of time in Moscow knows this is also not true.  There are several memorials to the victims of the repression and the only reason that the current memorial in front of Lyublyanka is a modest stone from Solovki is due to the fact that the committee has been unable to decide upon a suitable monument.  The Memorial Society, for instance, maintains a very large archive of persons who were repressed and their family experiences;  their mission is to ensure that the victims are not forgotten.  There are Memorial Society offices throughout Russia and the former territories of the Soviet Union.  Kathleen Smith has written numerous works on their efforts.

Appelbaum's work is commendable, but it would be more useful to read any of the foregoing authors.  

