How Doctors Think, by Jerome Groopman, is enjoying near-unanimous praise. Unfortunately, as was the case with Malcolm Gladwell's awesomely over-hyped books The Tipping Point and Blink, the praise is itself enormously misleading as it comes from an audience unqualified to assess the scientific basis of the claims being made by the author. What Groopman has done in How Doctors Think is compiled a series of lengthy anecdotes about doctors he knows and some extraordinary, atypical diagnostic misadventures they've encountered. He states over and over again that many medical diagnoses are wrong (about 15% actually), and also states over and over that the reason why so many medical diagnoses are wrong has nothing to do with "misdiagnosis" proper, but rather with the heuristics that physicians rely on to make decisions in the quick and dirty real world. These heuristics, or, mental "short cuts," are essentially snap judgments made on imprecise rules garnered from experience. They are often accurate, but are subject to a breadth of biases that can lead one to irrational and inaccurate conclusions. Now, before I state what follows, let me preface it by stating that I am a decision-science researcher, which is the field Groopman is actually referring to indirectly throughout his entire book. I have also worked in the field of medical decision making, and so am intimately familiar with the field Groopman is here presenting himself as an authority on. With that preface out of the way, let it be said that what Groopman is doing in his book is both misleading and somewhat disingenuous. He wants us to know that doctors' thinking is clouded by heuristics and biased snap judgments, and yet, throughout the entire book, he BASHES evidence-based medicine, diagnostic decision aids, the use of algorithms, and Bayesian reasoning! In short, he picks up on what decision-science researchers say is WRONG with doctors and medicine, but then rejects what the same science suggests is the best way to remedy the problem!! What does Groopman tout in place of evidence-based medicine? Why, good old clinical intuition--asking open-ended questions, listening, reading "body language," etc.; in short, the exact very same things that lead to the inaccuracy of doctors' diagnoses in the first place. The main problem with Groopman's book is his sloppy methodology. He insists that evidence-based medicine actually decreases the accuracy of real-world diagnoses, and yet, to back such an outlandish claim, he falls back on nothing but anecdotes describing rare and unrepresentative instances. For instance, actual research in this area (by Corey and Merenstein) has demonstrated that an acute ischemic heart disease predictive instrument  reduced false positive rates from 71% to 0. This is extraordinarily impressive, and would dramatically increase the diagnostic accuracy of physicians using it. Following the demonstration of the aid's effectiveness, how many physicians actually went on to use it? 2.8%!! Why? Because doctors like to think that their "deep clinical insight" is more accurate than actuarial (statistical) diagnosis. It's not. Actuarial diagnosis guarantees that the same input will result in the same diagnosis. This maximizes accuracy. Studies show that actuarial diagnostic procedures made off of doctors' performances are even more accurate than the very doctors they are based on. Why? Because doctors' diagnoses are idiosyncratic and inconsistent. They treat every case as though its "unique" (which only actually increases errors) while demanding ignorantly that "group statistics don't apply to individual cases." This lunacy is obviously false. After all, if it were true, science simply wouldn't work, ever, at all. If Groopman had spent half the time he spent gathering irrelevant interviews reading some actual research in this area, his book would have greatly benefited. As an insider, as a scientist who actually conducts research on the very topics Groopman conducts throughout his book, my unfortunate conclusion is that the whole book is a complete waste of time. He spends hundreds of pages touting how important it is for us patients to know how doctors think. How much time does he spend actually discussing the biases that taint doctors' thinking? A few pages.
