I bought this book based on the reviews that I read here and was very disappointed with it.  Coconut oil may be a good idea but the sketchy research in this book didn't convince me.  The recipes sound good but have many fancy, hard-to-find ingredients and are just too time-consuming to be practical.  I have only used one recipe from the book, as I found all the others to be impractical. Take the Thai Chicken Soup for example:  It has 16 different ingredients, 10 of which have to be chopped, sliced or bruised and many of which would be difficult to find and/or expensive such as lemongrass, galanga root, Thai fish sauce and Kaffir lime leaves.  Most regular grocery stores wouldn't even carry all those items.  

The Phase I of the diet is a 21-Day Weight Loss Kickoff which consists of three meals per day and two snacks.  Some examples of the snacks are:  
herbal tea and 6 macadamia nuts (no joke, thats all you get for that mid-morning snack)
12 raw or toasted almonds 
1 celery stalk stuffed with goat cheese
3-4 sardines packed in mustard sauce 
6 pecan halves 
3 radishes and 4 green olives
These are all individual snacks, not combined! If you normally eat like a bird, this might work for you but if you normally have a real snack, 6 macadamia nuts with sparkling water.

Phase II is a section on cleansing: first colon cleansing, then liver cleansing, gallbladder cleansing and finally kidney cleansing.  You may as well forget this phase if you don't have a juicer and all day to devote to the schedule.  For example for liver cleansing you would start your day like this: 7:00 or upon rising, drink 1 cup hot water with the juice of 1/4 lemon and a dash of cayenne pepper.  7:15 Beet juice cocktail (juice cucumber, carrots, a beet with greens, celery, ginger root and lemon).  8:00  any breakfast suggestion from the breakfast recipes and include raw food  take 1-2 capsules of the herb milk thistle or liver cleansing herbs  9:00 1-2 teaspoons Beet Salad (recipe on page 226)  10:30 ginger or echinacea tea  11:00 1-2 teaspons Beet Salad.  Sound like a lot of work?  And you are only up to 11:00!  It continues until 8:30 p.m.

Phase III is Introducing Healthy Carbs where you get to add a few more carbohydrates.  The meals are still a lot of work and the snacks are still tiny (you can have 6-10 macadamia nuts!)

Phase IV is Maintaining Your Healthy Weight.  More of the same but who could stick with it that long anyway?

Unless you love to spend the whole day in the kitchen and have a lot of time and money and have nothing better to do, you won't like this program.  Coconut oil may be worth a try but this book really isn't.

I like to eat healthy but this plan is rediculous
