I bought this book a few years ago on the recommendation of a professor of labor history.  History is often told from the point of view of the "winners", so I thought it would be good to absorb a perspective that is not usually taught.  I admit that all history is a form of narrative, and there are no "pure" facts in history since all narratives make value judgments at least implicitly.  But some narratives "work" better than others; some narratives enshrine values that would be better for us to hold than others.  Some ways of understanding the past are more helpful, and thus more correct, than others.

The narrative presented in this book is not very helpful for the same reason that ruling-class narratives are unhelpful: both are heroic narratives.  The only difference is that those who play the role of hero and those who play the marginalized have switched places.  History is far too complex of a process - of a story - to say that "so-and-so was responsible for such-and-such".  In this case, we learn that poor laborers, minorities, women, and immigrants are "really" responsible for America's accomplishments.  Of course, this is partially correct, for it is surely the case that we would not be where we are were it not for these groups.  But to imply that educated white men - people like two of the authors of the book themselves - made little "real" contribution to America's accomplishments but instead were responsible for all of our social failings is preposterous.  This is simply a swing of the pendulum to the opposite extreme.  In fact, I think that the whole project of parcelling out persons into groups, and then telling a group-based historical narrative is problematic.  Which group defines your identity? 

The failing of this book is that it mistakes the the part for the whole, the necessary for the sufficient.  A much better narrative that includes the marginalized and the working class can be found in Howard Zinn's *A People's History of the United States*.  

I gave the book two stars instead of one because the writing is quite good - just like an absorbing historical fiction
