I had some misgivings about this book, which I why I checked it out from the library rather than buying it -- something I rarely do.  I'm glad I did, because this book is frankly terrible.  THe Goldsteins are not good collectors, and they are not good writers either -- not by a long shot.  I say this as both a writer and collector.

There are many problems with this book but I'll focus on the major ones:
1) Poor writing. Stylistically painful, in fact. Their attempts at being funny fall flat, and sometimes they try so hard at humor that it's almost embarrassing. David's accent is continually spelled out throughout the book -- "Roight, tyke," etc, which is very obnoxious. This book is amusing at parts, but the amusement comes, not from the Goldsteins' humor, but from their sheer blunt ignorance.

2) Poor content. One gets the impression, reading this, that the Goldsteins ultimately know so very very little about the world of used and rare books, that they couldn't even stretch their knowledge over some two-hundred pages, and so had to throw in filler everywhere they could. Most of the book turns out to be about their own lives -- even a particular meal, which isn't interesting, or the street they live on, and so forth -- and then there are the frequent, rambling asides about such and such a writer/book/character, which is not only unnecessary and distracting, but condescending: do you really need to define Trollope to the reader, as if we've never heard of him?  This may also be an attempt to make themselves sound more knowledgable, although some of the descriptions could have been taken from the backs of book jackets.  THe first thirty or so pages seems to amount basically to a list: "we bought these books here for 8 dollars, these books there for 7 dollars, those books at this place again for 9 dollars" ... DO WE CARE??  The only interesting parts of this book are those that actually relate to book collecting, of which there are few, and even those are not exceptional by any means.

3) Poor taste. As other reviewers have said, this book seems to mock booksellers, dealers, and experienced collectors -- all of whom are a lot more interesting to read about than the Goldsteins -- but it is in poor taste to ridicule people who have been nice and helpful to you. There seems to be some mockery of book-collecting as well, and while I enjoy artful satire and can even see the foibles of the book-collecting world, this satire is not artful. Perhaps the GOldsteins did not intend to be derisive of collecting, and perhaps they even have a true passion for books, but one thing is certain: that passion, if it exists, does not come through at all in their musty, tattered words and contrived sentences.

So: this book is not good literature, is not useful or informative or interesting, and is insulting to the very group of readers that it caters to.

If you want to read about the wonderful love of books and the world book-collectors create for themselves, read "A Passion for Books" -- a wonderful collection of essays and short stories, with a forward by no less than Ray Bradbury, that celebrates this strange and lovely addiction, rather than deriding it
