but this still would not make up for the disarray this book is in.

The author has a lot of interesting information, but "Tomorrow's Energy" (TE) is very poorly compiled and editted, making it very difficult to read or skim through. I have another book I would recommend in place of this one, but I will hold off until the end of this review because TE should be fully addressed.

There is almost no foresight in this book. TE reads almost like hydrogen is just a fuel of the past when in fact many of us hope and expect it will one day be our fuel of choice. Even in the last chapter, "The Next 100 Years," the author just continues quoting away and giving speculation by others instead of reflecting on where hydrogen is going to go from his expertise (his perspective would have been nice since he has obviously done a lot of research on the topic).

The book reads like a collection of essays by the author on historical bits about hydrogen. Instead of telling us who did what on what date and here is what the person who did it had to say, it would have been far more useful to have the author explain in his own words what is going on and break the book into smaller sections if necessary (which really is necessary since there are so many random discussions it is painful).

Also, as "Slezak" mentioned, the units (GJ, BTU's, calories, you name it, it's in here) are flip-flopped throughout the book, making it incredibly difficult to follow the numbers, which is really relavent information to this topic.

The only type of person who will find TE useful over the book below is someone who wants to know a lot of details about the history of hydrogen and less about whether it will be useful for us in the future.

Now, my recommendation...

"The Hype about Hydrogen" (THAH), by Joseph Romm

THAH is still a little dry, but it does magnitudes better than TE, and it is consistent with units and has pretty clear descriptions. I couldn't put THAH down (I finished it in less than 2 days*), but after getting into TE about 100 pages, I dreaded going back to it. I made myself finish TE because I looked forward to what I expected to be the forward thinking last chapter (which, as mentioned above, was a great disappointment).
*I'm a diligent (slow) reader
