A friend of mine handed me this one while I was convalescing and I loved it at the start. The coming of age tale of an art student during his first year of college, it had me laughing myself silly at times and greedily lapping up the aphorisms and insights into mid-twentieth century life that it offered. All the self-absorbed leftish cant of our current academic elite may be found aborning here, in the person of the enigmatic Gary Cooperesque arts instructor Winter Sorbeck and in the antagonistically brilliant arts student, who despises the ordinary, little Miss Himmillsy Dodd. But about two thirds of the way through the book bogs down, particularly when our hero gets the goods on his arrogant professor, and the story starts to trail off to an inconclusive and remarkably unsatisfying end. Sorbeck, who seemed so powerful a character at the outset comes across as a bit of a self-destructive fool, though it seems we are not intended to take him for that by the author, and Miss Dodd solves the class's final problem in a way that only the narrator seems able to grasp. Most peculiar of all is her complete indifference, and even anger, toward our hero for having saved her from the tender ministrations of the madcap frat boys whom she has thoughtlessly baited while in their lair. Instead of gratitude for having been whisked away from the hulk who had her at his mercies, she appears genuinely annoyed with her rescuer instead. Are we to presume she actually sought the experience of being raped or meant to sacrifice herself on the altar of these "Greeks" in some odd form of performance art? The enraged demolition of Baby Laveen which follows her rescue seems to take all the sense out of the tale and the end leaves one merely scratching one's head. After having recommended this one to others as I read it, I was forced to recant at the end. Who really cares about these self-absorbed, self-satisfied college kid rebels who are so convinced they're better than everyone else anyway? As to the graphics (since the author is a graphics designer by trade), I have to add that I found some of the cover art in my edition more distracting than meaningful and the technique of rolling text over from page to page altogether unhelpful. If you want someone to read something then print it so reading is easy. Otherwise you're just jerking the reader's chain which is pretty much all this book, which began so well, ended up doing. -- SWM  
