 After reading bits and pieces of this book from Borders, I decided to order it online. Well, all I can say is that this book was not worth my time and money. 

 I'll be very honest with you. He does have useful information such as manuscript formatting when submitting it to a publisher, but that's as far as this book goes in terms of being informative.

 The attitude of the writer was a definate turn off for me. At first I thought him amusing, but as I kept reading this book I couldn't help feeling that he was being very arrogant and egotistic. In fact, the whole book seems like an ego trip to me. Unlike a lot of writing guide books, Monteleone actually tells us that all writers should aspire to be on the New York Times Best Seller List. Now, throughout the years I have heard of lot of writers and novelists cautioning their creative writing classes   about the consequences of "writing for profit." If you make money on the way, that's great. But making money shouldn't be your biggest reason in writing novels or short stories. You should write because you enjoy it. This, I believe, rings true. Of course, everyone has different opinions about how and WHY he/she writes, but Monteleone keeps shoving the Best Seller's List down the reader's throat. He even has a whole chapter dedicated on    promoting and marketing your novel (such as radio shows, press release, websites, etc.), but barely touches on the subject of getting an agent. After devoting roughly 30 pages on how to sell your book, he makes a few jokes and remarks about literary agents  and then moves on to other topics without telling us where and how we can go about obtaining one. His message is clear: "Making profit should be the writer's ONLY goal."  

 Also, Monteleone is not shy about showing his disdain towards academics and people who dismiss the so-called "drugstore books" as low-end. He thinks they are cocky and therefore deserves no respect from him (who, by the way, wrote over 20 novels that are out of print). But as far as I am concerned, he is the one who is the arrogant one that belittles the readers of this "How to" book. He has a very strong "it's either my way or no way because other people are all stupid and don't know what they are talking about" idea going throug his book. He lists a bunch of writers who were "the crassest commerical writers of their time" -- Twain, Poe, Dickens, London, Hemingway, etc. But what about writers like Virginia Woolf, D.H. Lawrence, James Joyce and Kafka who were not commercial writers? Monteleone seems to be certain that people will still read Stephen King and Danielle Steel 100 years later. 

 He also states that he hates people who call themselves "authors" and not "writers" because he finds them (people who prefer to be called "authors") cocky and pretentious. This is one of many examples of Monteleone's arrogance. Again we see the "anyone who does not conform to my rules are stupid and ignorant buffoons" attitude. 

 One of the absurd rules he strongly suggest that we enforce while writing is "writing three pages a day." I have read other books on creative writing, and although many professional novelists stress the importance of writing steadily everyday, Monteleone is the first one to say that we HAVE TO write three pages a day. His reason for this ridiculous rule? Simple. The faster you write, more books you can sell down the road. The issue of profit-driven writing surfaces again. 
 
 Overall, I felt like taking a shower after I read this book. It's more about how to crank out a mediocre novel once a year and  doing everything you can to sell it. Although a good portion of  the book is about writing itself, Monteleone's emphasis is on marketing rather than techniques or even writing a good, solid novel. I felt more discouraged than anything because of his black/white attitude towards writing. 

  Monteleone ends his guide to writing with "if you want to tell him how much you enjoyed this book, e-mail him at ~." Even that sounds cocky to me after reading this parade of "I'm so great" book. The whole books just sounds like a HUGE EGO TRIP, nothing more. 

 I found books by Nancy Kress much more helpful than this one.  "The Complete Idiot's Guide to Writing a Novel" is one of the worst investments I ever made.   
