On the surface, John Waters has it all -- a loving wife, a beautiful child, a successful business -- but appearances are deceiving. His marriage is in trouble, his business is under investigation by a federal agency, and his business partner has made questionable financial decisions which jeopardize everyone's future. Into this mix wanders Eve Sumner, a stunningly attractive woman who makes it abundantly obvious she's chosen Waters as her next conquest. However, appearances are again deceiving, because Eve Sumner claims she is actually Mallory Chandler, Waters' first great love.

Funny thing, though: Mallory Chandler died ten years previously.

So who is this woman? And how does she know things only Mallory should know?

In an effort to discover the truth, Waters finds himself involved in an affair that quickly turns dangerous, as Eve/Mallory displays the same obsessive behavior that destroyed Waters' love for Mallory twenty years before.

This novel requires a major suspension of disbelief for its critical plot device: transmigration of a soul. Once the reader accepts that, however, the story moves along quickly and works well within its preposterous premise. Waters flails and fumbles and does his best to fix the mess he's made by getting involved with Eve/Mallory, even as she seems to be setting him up for a murder charge. His desperation and fear are palpable, and certainly mitigate his at times wrong-headed choices. I truly enjoyed this story, that is, until I read the final pages.

The final plot twist, which I won't reveal here, is so farfetched, even within the confines of a plot that stretches suspension of disbelief to its outermost limit, as to spoil all the good trashiness that preceded it. I read the last few pages and threw the book across the room. I felt cheated. I think Mr. Iles wrote himself into a corner and couldn't think of any other way to give the reader a happy ending. Gah.

Never have I been so disappointed with a novel's resolution.

Oh, and the frequent references to a novel written by a character within this novel which happens to have the same title as a novel written by Iles bugged me too.

Gah.

Oh. Go ahead and read the story. Just rewrite the ending in your own head. I did
