Hyper-Parenting possesses the best of intentions, and is not lacking in insight and even, in places, eloquence. But the overall message is confusing and disjointed, and I was left unsatisfied in the end.
 
 One big problem is that what &quot;hyper-parenting&quot; means precisely is never truly established. One chapter criticizes the perfectly natural tendency to cherish a child in the womb. Another chapter discusses stressed children being pressured to ???excel??? in status-laden endeavors. Are both these totally different situations &quot;hyper-parenting?&quot; In one spot we are rightfully reminded that &quot;the important and meaningful connections [with our kids]defy scheduling.&quot; But in another place, we are apparently encouraged to schedule yet more time away from the kids &quot;for the things we want to do.&quot; Why, so we can be sure to miss those important and meaningful connections? Can the reader be blamed for feeling a little confused?
 
 The authors seem to assume that families are frazzled mostly because parents just take too much time doing things for the kids. Potential stress-builders, according to the book, include not only individualistic activities like music lessons and sports, but also family-building activities like nightly dinner at home. Unstructured family time is praised, but the book's assumption seems to be that this time will be suddenly abundant if we just quit karate. The possibility that Mom and Dad each take 50+ hours a week to work, and that this might be a big contributing factor, basically goes unaddressed. Such a one-sided view of the busyness problems suffered many families is not likely to be very helpful in the real world.
 
 The book is plagued in several spots by poor philosophy. The authors talk sincerely of ethics, but then take an entire chapter decrying excessive &quot;self-sacrifice&quot; and &quot;martyrdom&quot;. But the problems the book describes are based mostly on status seeking or an inadequate understanding of family life. The differences between these poor choices and authentic self-giving are not considered. The last chapter treats us to a relativistic essay about how we each need to figure out the fundamental questions of life based on &quot;feelings.&quot; So objective reality has nothing to do with the fundamental questions of life? Was this shallow pop philosophy really necessary?
 
 Fundamentally, this book doesn't succeed as well as it could because it combines too many topics under one umbrella without doing a sufficient job of defining terms, making distinctions and just thinking things through. What could have been a fine book ends up inconsistent and somewhat rambling. It needs to be re-written
