I spent 30 years as a so-called "born again" evangelical fundamentalist, and at first bought into everyting Dobson teaches in this book.  However, it was producing just the opposite of the kind of child I wanted my child to be. I wrote to Dr. Dobson and told him that I think children should have the right to make more of their own decisions and that we as their parents should be there as a guide and should not be punishing them for every little thing they do. I thought, and still do think, that childhood is a time to make mistakes, that's how we learn. And that not all childish behavior IS a mistake. I think kids are thoughtful and intelligent and able to consider the alternatives and decide for themselves what's right and wrong, if given the opportunity. I told Dr. Dobson that I unschool, which means that I allow my children to educate themselves at their own pace, studying whatever is exciting to them, and at the time and place of their choosing. I do not force them to study or learn. I do not force them to adopt one religious belief over another. I do not adopt a certain set of behaviors that are considered "acceptable." He wrote me back and said that children will not choose to learn reading or math unless we make them, and that children will not make the right choices when given freedom. HA! My kids are now 15 and 20, and for several years they read when they wanted and played video games when they wanted, and if they didn't want to study they didn't, but now they are completing high school by correspondence and they are doing great! They chose to study and get the diploma all on their own, and they are bright and inquisitive and we STOPPED spanking and punishment of any kind and did everything just the OPPOSITE of what Dobson says, and we are very please with our kids development. I now work in a social services setting teaching parents who've had their kids removed from the home how to parent appropriately, and I can tell you, the worst behaved kids are the ones who have had a life of punishment to try and get them to conform to somebody's idea of how they should behave. I teach my parents how to engender their kids cooperation without any kind of punishments or rewards, just through mutual respect. Believe me, if you have a strong-willed child, count your blessings. It's these kids who will think for themselves and not allow themselves to be doormats or brainwashed so they conform to society's demands. They will, if you let them, turn into wonderful people who will choose what they want out of life instead of having everything dictated to them.  This book shows you how to make sure your kids know who's the "boss". If you approach your kids this way, you will get one of two things:  rebellion, or kids who don't think for themselves. By the way, I no longer am an evangelical fundamentalist, and disavow and relationship with that movement, though I believe in God.  Religions are manmade, as is this approach to childrearing
