Author Miles Harvey describes the bizarre world of map thieves (including explorers, cartographers, collectors and vandals) as "deliciously offbeat," and so it is. Perhaps a fascinating narrative on cartographic crime could be culled from these 350 pages. Sadly, Harvey  structured his book around Gilbert Bland, a petty crook whose life is remarkable only for its sheer dullness. With all the build-up in the introduction, the reader hopes for more.  

Also, Harvey can't resist the urge to write about HIMSELF. He constantly interrupts mesmerizing tales of New World discovery with drivelly personal thoughts better confined to LiveJournal. Lest we forget, Harvey is a Professional Journalist On Assignment Interviewing People! And he likes maps, and his mother often cried when he stayed out late, blah blah blah.

Worst of all, Harvey constantly compares Bland and himself to reckless explorers like Pizarro, Fremont "the Pathfinder", Sir Walter Raleigh and even Christopher Columbus. Considering the absolute mediocrity of Harvey and Bland, such metaphors ring false and are in fact ludicrously disingenuous.  At one point Harvey describes the violent fates of certain explorers (including cannibalism, decapitation, mutiny and the murder of thousands). Then--with a straight face--he draws a parallel between these outrageous events and his own drive down I-85 to Hardee's.  I'm NOT kidding.

Harvey makes the case that he and Bland are similar people, and there I must agree. Both are utterly boring people. Bland conned dealers into buying stolen maps, while Harvey conned me into buying this book.

In short, the explorers and cartographers of old make for rich subject matter. Librarians and map collectors of the modern age do too, for the most part.  As for Bland, I cringed whenever his name popped up, and Harvey's self-indulgent reveries nearly drove me to hurl the book against a wall. Too bad "Island of Lost Maps" is mostly about Harvey and Bland as opposed to all those wonderfully weird, historical characters left in the margins
