My kids started reading the Left Behind Kids books, and because I was concerned about the message and theology of the books, I started reading them also.  Then I decided to check out the "adult" books from the library. 

I am a born-again, pentacostal believer in Jesus Christ, and parts of the theology are not what I read in the Bible.  OK.  I can stil enjoy a good book, one with interesting characters, realistic dialogue, and a good plot.  The issue of plot is difficult for the Left Behind books, I admit, because we know who wins if we've read the end of the New Testament.  As to the rest, it fell flat.  Most of the dialogue didn't ring true.  After a few of the books, I was interested in some of the characters, but by the end of the books, there were only a few of the original characters left, and they were some of the least interesting to begin with.  How many times do we have to read through the same sermons from the exact same scriptures in Revelation?  How many times do they have to tell us about the almost affair that someone had back in Book 1?  There is nothing new and interesting in this book. The last book is just boring.  

It would have been nice, at the end of the book, to wrap up everything.   Jesus comes back, and everyone should be reunited at the end after the battle is over, right?  Some of the characters that were important early in the books are either barely mentioned or not mentioned at all.  It was an incredible let down.  I felt like I had invested in these books only to see what life would be like for everyone after the battles are over.  Nothing.  We stick with that one main guy, and everyone else is left in the dust.  It should have had a really, really happy ending, but even that was boring.

If I had my time back, I would stick to the kid versions, if only to discuss theological issues with my children.  At least in the kid books, the sermons are shorter.  And I will know not to get my hopes up for happy reunions at the end of the series
