I admit that I have read every single one of Lilian Jackson Braun's "Cat Who" books. I used to relish every single one, but I agree with the other reviewers: Lately the books have been getting lamer and lamer.

I, too, think the books are now being ghost-written by someone else. I think the ghost-writing began about five or six books ago. It's not just that the mystery, never central, is now utterly an afterthought in these books. Nor is it that the resolution relies not on accute detective work on the part of Qwilleran or KoKo, but on deus ex machina. (Qwill and KoKo used to really sniff around, so to speak.) Nor is it that the style is mucher coyer than what Ms. Jackson Braun used to use. (I've had it with the endless references to the salt-and-pepper mustache already! It's getting to be a parody of itself!) No, the clincher is the many errors and inconsistencies in "The Cat Who Talked Turkey." 

Someone has already pointed out that the Siamese take a car trip in perfect harmony in "The Cat Who Talked Turkey." We all remember that Yum-Yum howls whenever she's in the car. And what happened to taking KoKo out on the leash? And the last time we were privy to the love life of Gary Pratt, owner of the Black Bear Cafe, he was mourning a dead girlfriend. When did he pick up the wife who plays such a big role in this book?

The ghost writer not only hasn't read all the "Cat Who" books, s/he hasn't even done much research. In the book, Qwilleran wonders how KoKo could know something if he can't read. But the very first book posits that KoKo can read backwards. Remember the title of the very first book in this series? The ghost writer clearly doesn't!

Also, Eddington Smith's great-grandfather or grandfather is described as a pirate. But, in the original story, wasn't he a highwayman, instead?

The change in tone comes in the very first sentence when there's a quote from the "Qwill Pen": "A town without a bookstore is like a chicken with one leg." Now, the "Qwill Pen," while not exactly Art Buchwald, has never been this ridiculous.

I've been a faithful reader until now, but this book is the last straw. I suspect that there's not one ghost writer, but more than one, and that's why the books aren't just inconsistent with the real "Cat Who" books, but they don't really match each other, either. I hate to say it, but I'm finished with this series
