This is a messy book that succeeds (to the degree that it does so) despite its flaws.  Some of the subjects are covered well, some covered poorly, and even where there is coverage, the discussions are maddeningly inconsistent.

First, the good: author Otto Friedrich was energetic in finding many former residents of Berlin as sources for this work, and some of the best parts of the book are their colorful reminiscences of their lost and ruined city.  Friedrich also included interesting chapters about the social milieu of the time, particularly the cultural scene: classical music, drama and the nascent motion picture industry.  And there are some nice character sketches of some of the leading artists of the era: Lotte Lenya, Bertolt Brecht and various musicians.  In general, despite the crazy-quilt nature of the coverage, Friedrich is best on the social history aspects of Berlin.

Now, the bad:  The book is very scattershot, a mile wide, but mostly an inch deep.  For example, in the discussion of the German movie industry of the time, although Marlene Dietrich and Emil Jannings are discussed, Peter Lorre, Ernst Lubistch and F.W. Murnau are discussed only in passing. 
Among the pictorial artists, George Grosz is covered and discussed, but Becker, Nolde and scores of other artists get superficial or non-existent coverage.

And maybe it is inevitable to try to discuss the tangled political history of the Weimar era and the rise of the Nazis in a history of Berlin, but Friedrich is not a professional historian, and his weaknesses in this area are glaring.  Any reader with even a passing interest in the Weimar era will find far better accounts of the politics of the period than Friedrich's book. And even if you grant that he needed to discuss the political events of the day in  his work, there's a lamentable lack of focus to his political coverage, which mirrors the overall unevenness of this work.  For example, his descriptions of the combat in the streets between the Freikorps and the Communists in the immediate post-war period have the freshness and vitality that come from the testimony of eyewitnesses, and they give the reader a sense for the chaos that became horrifyingly prevalent in Berlin.  But his discussion of Germany's policies toward the payment of reparations (the Dawes plan and the Young plan, etc.) is, at best, superficial and misleading.

If you read this book, you might consider reading the sections that deal with the social history of the period and just skipping (or finding better sources for) the political history.
