Scrutinize great men through average eyes and acts of courage are related as confused actions of a weak white guy, lusting after black flesh and, whining about daddy. Owen is a wishy-washy weak white-boy, led by a nose-ring pierced through the domineering finger of his father. This fictitious Owen Brown, full of unresolved emotions, commits passive-aggressive acts that contradict history and accounts of the real Owens; full of  clarity and integrity. He believed in his the dream, willingly followed his father and, living puritanically, spoke eloquently and admirably to N. England abolitionists along side his Dad. On the other hand, Cloudsplitter's Owen drowned in weakness. The author disregarded the true Owen's documented sense of conviction and the real Brown family's oneness in goals. They were all most effective abolitionists and champions of the helpless slaves where this fake Owen acted unconscionably against a black family friend because of the former's perplexed inner racism and jealousy. This is a blasphemy against the Brown family legacy and this book, like the lies about John Brown, still perpetrated, actually started by federal agents against Senior Brown, when he was in Kansas, is great for proslavery readers. Then, pro-slavers, backed by bountie placed by the Missourian Governor and President Pierce, on Brown senior, for his having freeed slaves in Missouri, would love this book. History however shows the real Brown and his men fighting injustices and being martyred. Just as modern congressmen lack the perspicuity of our founders,that fashioned our founding documents so does this account. Many are unable to grasp the Browns; people devoted to laws beyond men or kings; willing to fight tyranny, committed to the tenets of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. Unwavering, they executed their plans, ended slavery and changed our course as a country; making them permanent figures in an otherwise dishonest history. Cloudsplitter is for those who like revised history, characters with emotional uncertainty, cowardly dishonesty and for those who want to share in this fake Owens's failure as a man. Shame on the author for disgracing the Brown's family's reputation.
