Many students might or might not enjoy this text.  I personally did not enjoy reading this book as much as I would have had wanted to.  Go Tell It on a Mountain is a book that allows us to know how a person grew up spiritually with the Christian God.  If as a reader, you enjoy reading about coming of age in a Christian home this may be an appropriate book for you.  This book allows you to be exposed to God in a Christian manner and the people who praise him.  Having the opportunity to read this novel will be fun and exciting for you.  Therefore, your experience while reading this book will be exciting and interesting.  The main foundation of this book is spirituality, "... lay his life in the altar and rise up, praising God," is one of the many examples of God being mentioned.  In this societies' point of view God is real and he is the higher law.  What we see is on of the members of this society not sharing the same opinion.  Many people like my self might not enjoy religion for religion to be part of their educational enrichment in school.   If you as an individual become distracted, dull, or simply uninterested in literature with the religion topic addressed please do not consider this book as part of your summer reading choices.  You will end up hurting yourself because on e of the goals for summer reading is to enjoy yourself with educated reading.  I for the most part did not feel excited while reading and writing responses for this book.  In addition, if you have problems with reading elevated books Go Tell It on a Mountain may be suitable for you.  It is not a difficult book to read, because the vocabulary is not elevated.  As a reader, I prefer books with a high vocabulary.  When I was reading I was not challenged and that added to my discontent with this novel.  One thing that might help with reading if having problems with understanding the text is to write notes to the side or on post it notes.  I myself wrote notes when it came to a point that I had to create reading responses.  Writing notes helped me, because when I needed to write the reading responses I could simply refer to my notes and not be confused about how I concluded or were I obtained some observations or information.  If reading this book I recommend discussing it with a friend of someone else to make stronger connections to the text.  Go Tell It on a Mountain is an interesting book in its own way.  There`s a picture in the cover that shows an event in the book.  I is nice to have a picture to look back at when trying to imagine one of the scenes described in the book It may be even of great help to read the critics reviews on the back to have an idea of what kind of book it is and how it may be to your help or interest
