How did I dislike this book?  Let me count the ways.  No, y'all don't have time for that.  Perhaps I feel so strongly because McLynn's treatment of what was unarguably one of the pivotal years in modern history was such a disappointment.  Possibly congenitally incapable of writing a simple declarative sentence, McLynn further challenges the reader with incessant allusions to other historical times and figures while providing no context for the references, the net effect of which is the inference that he's literally and literarily "showing off".  I found myself reading sentences two and three times in an effort to understand what he was getting at.  And then there are the factual howlers.  In discussing British General Hopson's difficulties in attacking Martinique, McLynn writes (on page 108), "He was in a position remarkably similar to the one General John Burgoyne would confront at Saratoga in 1777: short of water while being unable to deploy his big guns."  Huh?  Perhaps McLynn is unaware of the facts that the Battle of Saratoga was fought literally within yards of the Hudson River and that Burgoyne had no "big guns" to deploy and would have had no opportunity to use them if he did.  This sort of thing made at least this reader wonder whether McLynn really knows what he's talking about with his principal subject.  As another reviewer has mentioned, McLynn seldom chooses simple words and phrases if more complicated (and often mystifying) one's are available in his--not our--lexicon: how about using the term "lacustrine littoral" (page 129) instead of its translation, "lake shore"?  Doubly unfortunately, McLynn spent too much time crafting vague metaphors and oblique displays of erudition and not enough on punctuation and general editing: the book is replete with missing or misplaced commas, colons and parentheses, omitted words, misspellings, etc.   In all, reading "1759" reminded me of my days grading college student papers, many of which appeared to have been prepared on the subconscious theory that if you're unsure you know what you're talking about, throw as many (preferably esoteric) words as possible at the subject and let God and the reader sort them out.  I admit to having skimmed the last couple hundred pages in the hope that McLynn might somehow redeem himself in later chapters.  He didn't.  Bottom line, if you want to know more about this momentous year and the French and Indian War in general, stick with the masters: Fred Anderson's "Crucible of War", Ian K. Steele's "Betrayals", Christopher Hibbert's "Wolfe at Quebec" and, of course, the classic treatment, Francis Parkman's "Montcalm and Wolfe".  McLynn lists most of these works as sources.  After reading "1759", I wonder whether he's  ever actually read them.       
