It's a good idea to find out what financiers like George Soros are thinking because it may give some hints of what is in our future.  His book, "The Crisis of Global Capitalism" was rushed into print "at breakneck speed." That should give a hint about Soros' power and influence. 

Soros, once a Hungarian Jewish refugee, is now a big shot.  When he isn't masterminding international financial scams or working toward world government, he makes public appearances, testifies before Congress, and writes books.

The stimulus for the book was the global financial crisis that began in Thailand in July 1997. The crisis steamrolled through the economies of many nations, collapsing the Russian banking system before the recovery began.  Malaysia shut down its financial markets to foreigners, pointing to Soros as the source of the problem.

After that close brush with global economic meltdown, perhaps Soros is trying to convince us that we should create a mechanism to clean up after his meddling.  Soros' "remedy" is international supervision over the national authorities.  World government.

How much world government is enough? "You cannot have a common market without a common currency. You cannot have a common currency without a common fiscal policy, including some kind of centralized tax collection."

And of course he says we need the International Criminal Court.  Still not enough world government for you?  

"A society without social values cannot survive and a global society needs universal values to hold it together." In case you missed it, we are talking about a global religion.  Maybe world government is like sex--you can't be a little bit pregnant, and you can't have a little bit of global government.

Soros clouds the issue with a lot of talk about "open societies," although world government would be anything but that.  Soros touts democracy and open societies, but he obviously favors bureaucratic secrecy over an open society. Soros favors some type of powerful paternalistic oligarchy that falls somewhat short of actual totalitarianism-or better yet, makes people think that it stops short of totalitarianism.

This book is loaded with contradictions.  Soros' definition of an open society diametrically opposes his desired stable society.  Soros calls Communism a cure worse than the disease, yet he maintains that we must put common interest ahead of self-interest.  He says that the US can't go it alone, yet somehow the US can save the world.  

Soros is too dishonest to admit that pumping capital from advanced nations to the third world will lower US living standards, although he predicts that the US will have to dismantle the social safety net to become more competitive.

Soros decries the profit motive as the basis of human behavior, but what other motive is there for international capital flight and destroying national sovereignty? 
 
What does internationalism deliver?  If you look at the US in the age of internationalism, then the answer is war, low wages, unemployment, and loss of self-reliance.

The fact is, free movement of capital is a relatively recent phenomenon. At the end of the Second World War, economies were largely national in character. Since 1980, the balance has swung so far in favor of financial capital that multinational corporations and international financial markets have supplanted national sovereignty. The ability of a nation to provide for the welfare of its citizens has been impaired by the ability of capital to escape paying taxation and decent wages by moving elsewhere.

Regarding the 1977 financial crisis that sparked this book, the international financial system itself constituted the main ingredient in the meltdown process.  The big difference with China was that its currency is not convertible; otherwise it's economy would have been exposed to the "wrecking ball," as Soros puts it.  The countries that kept their financial markets closed weathered the storm better than those that were open.  India was less affected than the Southeast Asian countries; China was better insulated than Korea.
