Does the Methodist Church canonize saints?  If so, they'll have to make way for St. Laura, arguably the most perfect person who ever ever lived.  That was my numb response after reading and annotating this turgid, 240-page confection by Ron Kessler.  "Our parents would say, 'We want you to be like Laura Welch [Bush]," said [classmate] Pamela Nelson... They would say, 'We want you to be friends with Laura Welch.  We want you to run around with Laura Welch.'  It was because she was like a perfect girl to her mother and dad... everyone thought she was perfect."  That's just part of the unending stream of laudatory Stepford quotes delivered in this "intimate portrait."  Fully authorized by the Bushes, Kessler quotes the choicest morsels from folks who subsequently get appointed, say, ambassador to Switzerland, and begins paragraphs like this: "Steeped in Midland values, [George W.] Bush sees himself as a humble servant of God."  

This book is "ladylike" in the very worst sense of the word.  Laura Bush is vaguely present while a host of authorized sources, as well as Kessler, b*tch-slap Hillary Clinton ("I can't believe her book is selling so well," murmurs Laura), the White House staffers who unpardonably wore out the carpets during the eight years of the previous Administration, Teresa Heinz Kerry, Senator Edward Kennedy, the so-called "liberal" media who are "picking on" (Laura's words) that law-breaking Bush twins, and many, many more.

Most controversies of the lives of George W. and Laura Bush, as well as most of W.'s stint in the White House, are skipped right over, apart from praising Laura's "quiet dignity."  That's why the book's so short.  This dainty text contains no Diebold, no Enron, no Halliburton, no Plame, neither a DeLay nor an Abramoff, and a solitary reference to Laura's furtive chain-smoking.  Through Kessler's skillful omissions and summarizing, W's businesses don't go splat on the page, nobody was evicted to make room for the Texas Rangers' stadium, and there's nary a mention of the Texas Air National Guard.  Bush 43 glides noiselessly from Yale to Harvard Business School, as seven years disappear, just like magic.

Little new material is provided in this book that isn't available in the hagiographies that the author thoughtfully provides in his bibliography.  However, if you care, Laura's contact lenses are not tinted, and she's had no truck with Botox.  She hates to cook and loves to scrub things down with Windex and 409.  Her husband's grubby bachelor habits are detailed down to the last bundle of fetid old clothes.  (I did, however, enjoy learning that the stress of the aborted vote recount in 2000 caused W. to develop a festering boil, which he showed off to his dinner guests.)  Kessler sinks his fangs deeply into Ann Gerhart's astute book, "The Perfect Wife," which is about as close to a fair-and-balanced biography of Laura Bush as we're likely to find in the mainstream media.

When writing about Laura Bush, Kessler's style is so twee that I wondered how he managed to type this book with both pinkies raised.  He seems to be very easily impressed.  "On top of her duties as First Lady," he gushes, "Laura has somehow found time to read at least a book a week."  Really?  A whole book?  Just like thousands of Amazon customers do?  He goes on to quote a writer from Business Week who cooes, "The first lady is undoubtedly the most literate person in... Bush's inner circle.  Jackie Kennedy seems like a dilettante in comparison."  Poor, cultured Jackie.  And poor us, if Laura really is the most literary person in Bush's inner circle, and has as little input into policy as Kessler says she does.  Kessler reassures the dwindling GOP faithful that though Laura remains pro-choice, otherwise "she never really had any political opinions."   Laura also dotes on "literature on the bubonic plague and other epidemics.  'I love plague books,' Laura said."  Uh-oh.

What ostensibly was the biggest shock of Laura's youth--when she ran a stop sign and killed a high-school classmate ("with... big ears," Kessler adds eugenically)--is padded fore and aft with explanations of how dangerously Detroit used to build cars.  Please.  I'm a decade younger than the Bushes, and we had seat belts in 1963.  The only sign of genuine emotion described in this whole "intimate portrait" comes not on 9/11, not on her wedding day, not when Laura's daughters were born, but when a former high-school sweetheart appears unexpectedly at a photo op.  "Her eyes were huge, and she had this look on her face as if she had just seen a ghost.  She was in shock," stated her press secretary.  Well, if I'd married George W. Bush, I'd hanker after my old boyfriends, too. 

There are a number of errors in the bound galleys I read of this book, which I hope will be corrected.  In a marvelously Freudian slip, Kessler notes, "on March 19, 2001, the invasion of Iraq was imminent."  A more insensitive example of author error is how Leilani Akwai, a Yale classmate of W.'s, is referred to numerous times as "he" or "him" AFTER the former Peter Akwai completed transgender surgery.

The most egregious howler of this biography is trotted out in three-plus pages of pandering to Jewish voters, when Kessler insists that in 2001, Bush held the first Chanukah candle-lighting in the history of the White House.  Not so.  During the first year of the Clinton Administration, White House staffers, their children, and kids from a local Jewish after-school program joined Bill Clinton to celebrate Chanukah.  The tradition has continued to this day.  Conservative writer David Horowitz also has circulated the meme that W. was the first to light a chanukiah in the White House, but both he and Kessler are wrong.

Well, hey, maybe Laura Bush is as perfect as her slavish biographer says she is.  More likely, as Gertrude Stein wrote of her hometown, Oakland, California, "There is no there there."  As a reclusive, bookworm, wife and mother, I used to feel a tiny bit sorry for Laura Bush.  

No more
