This book is not a serious or scholarly piece of work, and I recommend that you not waste your time reading it.

It begins with a description of the life of Mohammed, the origins and spread of Islam, and the creation of various Islamic sects.  This is probably the best part of the book, but it is still very poor.

For example, Schwartz never really explains even the basic distinction between Shi'a and Sunni Islam.  And Schwartz's overall goals badly tarnish his discussion:  He wants to portray traditional Islam as being perfectly pluralist, tolerant, and peace-loving, so as to contrast it with hate-filled, intolerant, and violent Wahhabism.  As a result, his description of the Ottoman Empire (representing Schwartz's traditional Islam) is completely uncritical and consequently not credible.  For instance, he never even mentions the Ottomans' barbaric and murderous treatment of Armenians and Kurds, to name just two salient examples.

The rest of the book follows a similar pattern:  There are Muslims Schwartz likes (especially Sufis), and there are Muslims he hates (Wahhabis, plus others who are not Wahhabis but whom Schwartz describes as "Wahhabized," though he never explains what  that's supposed to mean).  The "good" Muslims can do no wrong, and the "bad" Muslims are behind just about every act of terrorism committed anywhere on the globe.  I know this sounds like it must be a charicature of the book, but it's not.  Rather, Schwartz's book is itself a charicature of the complexity of contemporary international affairs.

An example will illustrate Schwartz's appalling sloppiness with evidence.  On pages 217-218, he claims that a "manifesto" written by Osama bin Laden proves that Saddam Hussein is connected with bin Laden and Al Qaeda.  I found this surprising, because there is, to my knowledge, no proven link between them whatsoever (and I have followed this issue very closely).  In fact, it is well known that bin Laden has always hated Hussein and secular rulers like him, that bin Laden had called for Hussein's overthrow, that Hussein hated bin Laden and had brutally repressed Islamic fundamentalists like him, etc.  (See, for example, the analysis of this issue in a report by the Carnegie Endownment for International Peace).  So I was very curious to see what evidence Schwartz had found in bin Laden's "manifesto" to support his conclusion that, in spite of all that, Hussein and bin Laden were allies.

Here is Schwartz's evidence:  In his "manifesto," bin Laden (1) called for an end to the UN sanctions on Iraq, (2) lamented the destruction inflicted on Iraq in the first Gulf War, and (3) also lamented the deaths of Iraqi children that were caused by the UN santions.  I'm not kidding--that is the sum total of Schwartz's "proof" that Hussein was an ally of bin Laden and Al Qaeda in their global terror campaign.  It's absurd.

The book does contain one interesting thesis:  Schwartz claims that for most Americans, the face of violent and dangerous Islamic extremism is Ayatolla Khomeini and the Iranian revolution, while Americans have regarded Saudi Islam as "moderate" because the Saudis are US allies.  Schwartz plausibly argues that the reverse is true:  Saudi Islam (Wahhabism) is much more dangerous because of its support for a "holy war" without borders, while the Islamic revolution in Iran was really about liberating the Shi'a of Iran from oppression under the Shah, not about waging a larger war beyond Iran (although Schwartz does acknowledge Iranian support for certain Palestinian militant groups).  The thesis is interesting and possibly true.  But that one interesting point certainly doesn't make this dreadful book worth reading.

If you are looking for an introduction to Islam, or for insightful and well-reasoned discussion of world affairs, please look elsewhere
