I tried to listen to this story on CD, and aside from the story not being terribly interesting, I was surprised at Asimov's attitude towards religion. I suppose I shouldn't have been. He is a sci fi writer, after all. But I thought he was supposed to be a smart guy. He's not -- at least on this point. 

The basic outline of the story (at least the beginning -- I didn't make it all the way through) is that some guy predicts that the galactic empire is going to fall, so he tries to make provision to preserve technology so that the succeeding dark ages don't last as long as they otherwise might. Toward that end he gets a select group of scientists onto this relatively isolated planet where they can carry on their work, which becomes the invention and maintenance of a religion that's supposed to preserve certain technologies through the coming dark ages. In this religion the high priests understand the theory -- the technology and all that -- but the local priests and the people are duped into believing in some mumbo jumbo. 

It's as if you're supposed to picture some priest waving incense and saying prayers while he adjusts the knobs on the nuclear reactor, believing that it's God doing something while it's really just technology. 

I know that "technology as magic" and "religion = magic" are common themes in the sci-fi genre, but for some reason I expected better from Asimov. It shows a rather alarming lack of thought. 

Religious rituals are always geared towards the chaotic and the mysterious. There aren't religious rituals to cause the sun to rise, because it's regular and dependable, but there are religious rituals for storms and floods and harvests and childbirth and whatnot. Religion is also used to explain hidden things -- psychology, forgiveness, etc. 

IOW, religion is subject to criticism ("it's not measurable") in precisely the area where Asimov is trying to squeeze it. He's trying to make religion the mystical cloak for something that's regular, predictable and logical. It just doesn't work that way. 

If religious rituals had precise, measurable results, people would suspect that there's nothing religious or mysterious about them and they'd look for a material cause. Anyone who doubts that simply doesn't understand the religious mind, or hasn't been paying attention. Sure, there are gullible religious folk out there who'll believe anything, but the majority have half an eye out for tricks and deceptions. 

The very idea that you can hide technology behind a cloak of religious ritual is a rather silly science fiction writer's fantasy.

Anyway, the story wasn't that compelling, and this "religious cover for nuclear technology" business was so incredibly stupid, I couldn't finish it.
