Naturally, I had my doubts that anyone could fill in the gaps in an RAH outline and end up with an actual Heinlein novel. After putting the book aside, picking it up, putting it aside again, skipping almost the entire middle section, hitting the end and then having to put up with Robinson's political views, I'm sad to say my doubts were justified.

Re-reading my Heinlein collection has taught me that there is more to a book than a plot. I know what's coming next in Time Enough for Love, Starship Troopers, Farnham's Freehold, Citizen of the Galaxy. I re-read these novels because they hold my interest, move me, and teach me the truths that RAH had to offer. The art of the writing itself is enough to keep me going over and over these books. I would be very surprised if other Heinlein fans didn't find this true as well.

Not so Variable Star. The characters are simply not very interesting. What they say is not worth saying. And honestly, they are stupid. As I said, I skipped the middle of the book entirely. It didn't hold me at all. I contrast this with how captivated I felt reading many of Lazarus Long's tales in Time Enough for Love. They really were only marginally SF, but man, oh man, the quality of that writing. You care what happens to these people and what they say makes you think.

Well, at least a plot twist occurred and I began reading again there. (Notice that my missing many chapters hadn't really caused any problem in picking up at this point - kinda like tuning-in to a soap opera after 6 months and needing only one episode to fall right back into the story.)

Then the final blow. Spider defiles RAH with his anti-Americanism. Sorry, Spider, but I, too, have read what the master wrote, all of it, and I simply don't believe that you are speaking in his voice - pretty much the opposite of what I think he would have believed. I'm sure this debate will rage for some time, but for me it's over. I am deeply offended that Mr. Robinson would don Heinlein's mantle and use his status to advance his own personal politics. It's false advertsing at best and a betrayal at worst.

Heinlein was a warrior. Robinson is a pacifist and I don't find him much of writer, either. We all so wanted more RAH. We didn't get it
