Thank goodness I checked this book out of the library instead of buying it because it was absolutely awful.  I'd recommend against reading this, but if you absolutely have to, go to the library instead of the bookstore.  Eek.

From page 1, Daphne is completely unlikeable.  Her live-in boyfriend wants to propsoe to her, but she's more excited about watching TV and then, after accepting his proposal, is glad he's too tired to have sex.  She goes on to complain about how their love life is far from hot.  The book continues with her having trouble telling everyone about her engagement because she isn't very excited, and then she meet Johnathan, a rich TV producer, and becomes interested in him.

Standard chick lit.  Which is fine, as I enjoy chick lit.  The problem is how it's written.

Every character, instead of describing their appearance, is summed up in lines like, "She reminded me of Ruth on All My Children" or "He was so cute, in an Adrian Grenier from Entourage sort of way."  Mmm-hmm.  And if you haven't watched these shows, you're sort of out of the loops.  It doesn't stop there either - everything is compared to something that's on TV because Daphne works for the Museum of Television and Radio.  It's just way overdone and gets more than irritating.  I began to want the book to have more of a plot than rehasing incidents from TV.  

You feel no sympathy for Daphne.  Sure, her love life might not be as red hot as she wants it to be, but she's the one who picked her boyfriend as a partner, and she's clearly making no effort to change matters; all she wants to do is for him to leave her alone with her TV shows.  She comes across as extremely shallow and unlikeable, not caring how she's hurting him in her pursuit of another guy.  The chemistry between Daphne and the new guy, Jonathan, isn't all that convincing, and you wonder why she's so intent on destroying the relationship with Charlie, the boyfriend who may not be great in the sack but clearly loves her and is doing whatever he can for her.  From her descriptions of him he's clearly loathed - truly, HE could do better.

I couldn't read past a quarter of the way into the book, it was just that bad.  I ended up flipping through the rest of the novel to see what happened, just out of morbid curiosity.  I wasn't too impressed, but that was to be expected.

There are many more, many BETTER chick lit novels out there.  Do yourself a favor and read one of those instead
