I read this book on the strength of the author's "See no evil." Worried about a sense of deja vu, I waited five months.  That was not necessary: This book provides little sense of place or character, seeming to depend upon your having read "See no evil" for that.

If it hadn't been for "See no evil", I would have stopped reading after the first few chapters.  Although the first chapter was promising, I quickly lapsed into speed reading (just short of skimming).  Just over halfway thru, I became so disappointed, I stop reading.  However, my curiosity - inspired by the author's previous work - got the better of me, and I picked it back up and skimmed to the end (encountering nothing to cause me to read for enjoyment).

The book's genre is the spy version of "detective thriller" - the hero runs from place to place collecting information from various "colorful" sources, with various "old friends" providing critical information that would have otherwise disrupted the frenetic pace.  The author does not have the kind of  writing skills needed to pull off a book in this genre.

I expected (and desired) some exposition on Middle East politics, but it often came across as excessive and preachy (obsessive?).  Novels can provide a simplified version of a situation to reveal underlying truths, but this book provides only a simplistic version - readers of "See no evil" may feel insulted, not just disappointed.

I expected that part of the book would center on bureaucratic politics and infighting within the CIA and intelligence community, but what was here was disappointing, poorly set up and very badly rendered.

The ambiguities and uncertainties I would have expected were slight and peripheral to the main thread of the book.

Dialogue is often poorly rendered - it took effort to track which character was saying what - but this was a symptom of the bigger problems.  If you have this problem in an extended exchange involving only two characters, there is a problem with the characters themselves and with the plot point that the dialogue is attempting to advance.  But some of the exchanges were so trite, I didn't bother to make the effort.

Characters are minimally rendered.  The plot is slight.  Transitions between scenes are often jarring.  Too many of the situations strain credibility.  The ending made me feel not just cheated, but betrayed (appropriate behavior for a Case Officier, but not for an author).

Read "See no evil".  Skip this book - It could have just as easily been produced by a writer whose only experience was reading other books in this genre
