McMaster has taken upon himself the task of blaming the civilian leadership in the U.S. for the disaster in Vietnam.  How they misled and lied to the public and ignored the advice of the military.  

That is true but his deliberate slanting of the evidence to prove his point damages what is a well-documented interesting book.  General Harkins comes off in this book as a man doing the right job but who was ignored by Lodge.  In fact, although he was ignored, Harkins clearly was pollyanish in saying things were going well when they weren't.  As the Bright Shining Lie makes clear, the countryside was falling to the Viet Cong during Diem's regieme (Harkins' time) and did not suddenly happen when Diem was overthrown as McMaster seems to indicate.  

In addition, General Westmoreland continued the optimistic vein of Harkins.  He ignored the advice of his Marine commanders about sending Marines into the Khe San area and other areas the NVA and Viet Cong were strong and so suffered many losses.  Yet McMaster doesn't focus on the weakness and bad decisions of Westmoreland because the General.  

The only  military member that McMaster severely criticizes is Taylor and that is because he "sold" out to McNamara. In point of fact, LeMay who comes off relatively well in this book was a nut whose preference was to bomb North Vietnam so much we could pave the entire country and then plant a victory flag.  Some victory if you kill all the people. The JCS was not united as McMaster does admit.  

This book is well documented and covers a fascinating topic, the deliberate misleading of the American public in Vietname.  However, McMaster's failure to be objective dramatically weakens the book. 

His criticism of McNamara and Johnson is well documented.  However, in his desire to prove his main thesis and, I suspect because of his loyalty the military, caused McMaster to gloss over the failure of the JCS and Harkins/Westmoreland, and to ignore the fact that rural Vietnam was largely lost long before Diem's overthrow.  

Although not perfect, A Bright Shining Lie does a much better job of describing this sorry tale.
