Sontag represents a certain type of "intellectual" who is - thankfully - becoming increasingly rare in the world of google and broadband. As exemplified by Descartes (I think, therefore I am), this is the school of people who think that truth can be discovered solely through rumination - without doing any research, without experimentation, without any investigation of the world outside of your skull. It is pure subjectivity - gloriously self-referential and egotistic, completely self-contained and titannically self-satisfied. What Sontag's writings are about are Sontag - not the world as it is (and which can easily be fact checked) but the world as seen through the coke bottle lens of Sontag's ego and self. Sontag would hate the comparison but she is the leftist equivalent of the medieval christian mystic - the world outside of her own mind doesn't matter and facts have no weight. This is what enabled her - in one of the most egregious public acts of heartlessness in the last one hundred years - to praise the 9/11 terrorists for bravery while the World Trade Center was still smoldering and bodies were still being dragged from the debris. This was like praising the Nazi concentration camp managers for efficiency and thoroughness. Having distanced herself from humanity and decency with her warped and unbalanced intellect, the stunned response to her statements probably bewildered her completely. No matter as her crazed statements had plenty of precedents in her previous writings. She took the very cheap, easy, and elitist high road of condemning every wrong in the world - without ever offering any solutions and always, always, condemning the USA for actually trying to do something about these problems rather than just word process away safely in her study surrounded by the works of Verlaine, Rimbaud, and Genet. 
In Photography, Sontag is at the Acme of her (witch) craft. She thinks (and enough critics seemed to have agreed with her) that a well written sentence implies veracity as if the good sentence was a litmus test for truth; as if grammar and a good thesaurus conferred reliability, sanity, or common sense. It doesn't. She'll be forgotten. I think she would have appreciated that - joining the obscure writers that few people read, enjoyed, or valued. She was too elitist to have enjoyed it very much if she actually was embraced by the masses
