I've seen many reviewers argue that the use of DDT to prevent malaria deaths in the developing world is unjustified because 1) it may cause greater long-term harm to the environment, and 2) mosquitoes will eventually develop resistance to the insecticide.

One San Francisco reviewer even claimed "We have no idea of how many millions, or billions, of people globally have been impacted by its use in the forms of debilitating illnesses and death from cancer and the like." According to her, it's irresponsible to use DDT when we have no idea to what extent the negative impact, if any (although "billions of people" is a bit ridiculous), is of using it.

But there's no question what the negative impact has been of banning it: millions and millions of preventable deaths. So some environmentalists are apparently more than happy to allow an absolute--millions dead--in exchange for an unknown.

Part of the reason why it's so easy for them to trade lives for theory is that they don't give much day to day thought about malaria. It's a disease that doesn't worry people in the developed world. It happens "over there" in the third world, and if we actually get it over here, well, no worries--we get treated and fully cured with relatively affordable drugs. Who in the West actually worries day to day about dying from malaria contracted from a mosquito bite? It ranks up there with polio and typhoid. 

But what would the "ban DDT no matter what the cost" environmentalists be saying if HIV suddenly became transmittable by mosquitoes? Would they continue to argue "we have no idea how many millions of people have been impacted by DDT's use" if they were one mosquito bite away from a death sentence with no cure (as peoples of the third world don't have or can't afford a cure for malaria)?

Nope, you can bet your bottom dollar virtually every one of them would change their tune pretty quickly--especially here in San Francisco. All their objections about "long term damage to the environment" and "resistance to insecticide" would suddenly transform into a mere theory once faced with the possibility their own lives could be in mortal danger. Activists would be storming the streets demanding the return of DDT with the same vengeance they exhibit today when marching for a solution to HIV/AIDS. Because it's a different story when it's no longer someone else's life that's on the line.

And hence we would have an even clearer expression of the hypocrisy of the new environmental imperialism they impose on the third world today--the kind that makes activists feel better about themselves from the comfort of latte studios and Volvo station wagons. Every day they tell the third world "we have cures for these diseases that you don't, so it matters not to us that our environmental crusade will take away your line of defense and you die by the millions" in exchange for good conversation at Starbucks. It's an easy trade when mosquito-borne death isn't tugging at *your* arm every day.
