Skimming through this book will reveal a number of articles with interesting titles, but only one of them, entitled "A Scientific Argument for the Existence of God" was studied by this reviewer, and hence only it will be reviewed here. It regards the notion of the "fine-tuning" of various physical parameters as being "proof" for the existence of God. The tone of the article is extremely sophomoric, and it exaggerates what is really known in modern physics. 

The author gives five examples of what he calls "fine-tuning", with this "fine-tuning" supposedly defined with respect to the occurrence of "life," the latter of which is left undefined in the article. The reader though can assume an ordinary, common sense view of life, and for the purposes of this review the definition could be very liberal, i.e. merely supposing the existence of carbon molecules, or very stringent, i.e. the existence of a simple living organism, such as a paramecium. 

The first example regards what the author oddly calls the "strength" of the big bang. He states that if the "strength" of the big bang differed by one part in 10^60, then "life" would be impossible. He quotes a reference that supposedly sheds light on this statement. This reviewer has not examined this reference, but it would seem unlikely that it would be of interest from the standpoint of cosmology. If life is taken to mean carbon molecules, then this would require solving the bound state problem in quantum field theory, which has not been done in physics to this date. If life is taken to mean a paramecium, one needs to start with the big bang, evolve the universe, show the eventual appearance of carbon molecules, and then show how these and other molecules formed the paramecium (and face the formidable protein-folding problem in the process). Then one has to show how a change in the "strength" of the big bang of one part in 10^60 would not result in the eventual appearance of carbon molecules, but even if they did appear, the paramecium (or any other simple life form) would not be formed. Either way the calculation will be extraordinarily difficult. It has not been performed by the author of this article or in any research article that this reviewer is aware of. It would seem that the author, in his rush to justify his theistic biases, is willing to accept extremely weak evidence, at least from the standpoint of physics. It will do no good to quote "eminent" physicists in this regard, since they have not done these calculations explicitly, due to their extreme difficulty. Indeed, Freeman Dyson, who the author quotes in the article, has certainly done valuable work in perturbative quantum field theory (quantum electrodynamics to be exact), but he has not even come close to solving the (non-perturbative) bound-state problem in quantum field theory. The author therefore naively gives credit to the well-known physicists he quotes, without understanding the true nature and difficulty of the physical problems that must be solved before he can make the claims that he does in this article. Arguments from authority are worthless in a scientific argument, the latter of which the author has designated his article to be. 

The same commentary also applies to the author's assertion that "life" would be impossible if the strong interaction has been stronger or weaker by as little as five percent. As it stands, this is a huge claim, since calculations with the strong interaction are extremely difficult to carry out. The theory of the strong interaction is governed by quantum chromodynamics, and only approximations to this theory, such as lattice calculations, have shown promise for an understanding of the dynamics of strongly interacting particles. Once again, in his hurry to justify his theistic biases, the author uses examples that do not reflect the true status of modern physical theory. 

In the third example of "fine tuning", the author quotes work that concludes that if gravity had been stronger or weaker by one part in 10^40, then "life" would be impossible. One needs a successful theory of quantum gravity to make this claim, and such a theory has not yet reached the level of sophistication that would allow this claim to be made with confidence. 

Similar objections could be made to the other two examples of "fine tuning", but will not be done here. But in addition to his naivete about what has really been accomplished in modern physics, the author makes unproven claims about how scientists really operate during their research. The most extreme example of this is in what he calls the `prime principle of confirmation', which is supposed to give criteria for rejecting one scientific hypothesis over another. The author though does not give historical test cases in scientific research that show the viability of this principle. It is certainly not one that scientists are vocal about or self-consciously follow. In fact, the assignment of probabilities to hypotheses is only one of many ways to model the process of scientific research. Each of these has their advantages and disadvantages, and their validation is currently hotly contested, especially in the field of automated scientific discovery. 

The standard model of elementary particle physics has been fine-tuned to get the right answers, but this fine-tuning is not what the author has in mind. He wants to justify the existence of a theistic designer, but he has not given any sound, scientific arguments in this article. To justify the claims made by the author would take an army of researchers and massive computer calculations. The results would be very important in themselves, as the bound state problem and protein-folding problem are of great interest to physicists and computational biologists. The author's arguments are though extremely weak, and remind one of a piece of bread lying in a bowl full of milk: seemingly solid, but when one lifts it up for examination it falls to pieces.
