I bought this book with high hopes having read the reviews here on Amazon but was sorely dissapointed with the book.
Having read it cover to cover and nearly becoming comatose from doing so I have to say its not worth the money.
The main reasons for saying this are:
1. It takes forever to get anywhere - I was half way through the book before anything diet and exercise related was brought up.
2. The first half of the book deals with getting in touch with your feelings. He talks a lot about learning to accept your body and miraculously you'll discover a way to lose weight. My arguement with that is if I hadn't accepted that I need to lose weight then why on earth would I be reading the book in the first place?
3. His style of writing felt condescending towards the reader, I felt like I was being told that I was a special little girl who just needed guidance in a big bad world.
4. The support network that he suggests signing up to on his website costs money from what I could tell by looking at the site. I don't know if I was reading the information on the site incorrectly - which now deals with his "new" diet anyway.
5. Having tried out the exercises in the book and followed the very basic diets plans (the kind of thing I learnt about basic food types, carbs, fats, proteins when in grade school) I've not felt any different or lost any weight. The exercises seems to be so low impact that I would have to do them constantly for several hours to work up any kind of sweat or improve my fitness/weight loss.
6. The title of the book is misleading. While yes, the exercises only take 8 minutes to do he forgets to mention the time for warming up/stretching and the writing and notes that you're supposed to make to get in touch with your inner whatever it is you're trying to reach.
Overall I felt that this book was definately not worth the money. I'd rather pay for something that told me something useful within the first half of the book. However I would say that he does provide some interesting information on the metabolism.
In fact I think I've burnt more calories and lost more weight by typing this review than I lost while following the book/plan for 5 weeks.
In short, don't bother with this diet plan. 
