I am continually amazed by the reviews that show up here praising Bob Hoffman, obviously by people who never really knew him.

The fact is that Bob Hoffman did more damage than good for the entire Iron Game, even his pet sport of Olympic Style Weightlifting.

And Hoffman via Dr. Zeigler was instrumental in popularizing anabolic steriods (see article by Bill Starr, a former York employee in the current issue of Iron Man)

Hoffmans presence at AAU sanctioned bodybuilding events gave the sport a black eye by the mainstream media. The 1956 AAU Mr. Universe held in Virginia Beach, VA was a perfect example. Hoffmans actions at an event that could and should have done a lot of good for the sport had the opposite effect. Sports writers in the mainstream media critized the event and bodyuilding as a whole. Hoffmans retort was classic; "I think bodybuilding is sissified and I am trying to get it shut down." Great PR for our sport eh?

Hoffman was notorius for handpicking winners in AAU contests. Hoffman was the AAU and acted liked a mafia king. In the Virginia Beach contest, Hoffmans protege was in fourth place so Hoffman changed the judges making himself and Paul Anderson judges. This enabled Hoffmans protege to move from fourth to first. Hoffman and Anderson even had the audicity to put Olympic Weightlifter Chuck Vinci ahead of Ray Schaeffer, the then current AAU Mr. America who would go on to win the prestigious NABBA Mr. Univers a week later against better competition but with better judging. Schaeffer would end up in second place in the AAU Virginia Beach event thanks to Hoffman.

A similiar atrocity happened 9 years earlier when the AAU arranged for Steve Stanko, a York employee to win the AAU Mr. Universe over better competitors like Eric Pederson and George Eiferman. Stanko had won the AAU Mr. America a few years earlier in a similiar fashion. To his credit, Stanko was the first man to total 1,000 lbs in Olympic Weightlifting. Catch the connection?

Hoffman took on anyone who dared enter the muscle game and for any reason. His battles with Joe Weider, Dan Lurie, Rheo H. Blair and even Charles Atlas were classic. Hoffman wanted a monopoly. And Hoffman was quick to copy ev en after he criticized. For example, Weider came out with the highly successful Crash Weight Formula XR7. Hoffman debunked it without basis in issue after issue of his rag magazine for years and then finally came out with his own version. Guess what he called it? Crash Weight Gain. First attack then join. Of course Hoffmans product was more sugar than protein and didn't work as well as Weiders. 

In the early 1960's Hoffman via Dr. Zeigler introduced Anabolic Steriods to the York weightlifters. They made fantastic gains but Hoffman tried to give the credit to special Power Rack Training, a new piece of equipment that Hoffman introduced at that time. People like Bill March, Luis Riecke, Tony Garcy, Bob Bednarksi and more made fantastic gains. We now know the epidemic that has been caused with steriods thanks to Hoffman. (See current issue of Iron Man)

The people writing positive things about Hoffman are undoubtably Hoffmans relatives or people who mindlessly bought into all the bull that Hoffman perpetrated for nearly 40 years. Or perhaps they got a FREE HI PERTEEN (The way Hoffman pronounced Hi Protein) shake.

I met Hoffman back at one of the York Picnics and at the AAU Sr. Nationals and AAU Mr. America Contests that were held in York. I met him before he went senile. He seemed somewhat amiable but with an attitude and it was obvious that he did all this for his own merit. He had some interest in Olympic Weightlifting.

Terpak was a complete jerk. John Grimek on the other hand was delightful to talk to and obviously genuinely cared about the Iron Game and it's followers. He was a great champion who was unfortunately used and abused by York and Hoffman.

Fortunately, in the 1980's the York Empire fell apart. Strength & Health, Hofmans flagship rag folded in 1982. Muscular Development would have followed soon after but was bought. Powerlifting and Olympic Wightlifting  formed new federations that really cared about the sport and had real athletes in control. Likewise, the IFBB severed it's ties with the AAU after only about 3 years replacing them with the better NPC and actually had bodybuilders running the sport, and disgarding the AAU like yesterdays garbage.  AAU bodybuilding shows would then eventually go the way of carnival barkers. 

Hoffman did more damage than good for the Iron Game and for the few people who still think Hoffman was a saint and that York BBC was so powerful or that the AAU was the "legitimate" organization, I ask you, where is York BBC today? And where is the AAU today?

Bob Hoffman, York BBC, AAU, good bye and good riddance! The sport is better off without you!




