This book seriously misinterprets scripture to make you believe it is okay to malign other church leaders.  The arguments are persuasive, but based on a warped interpretation of scriptures.  I think even a non-christian should recognize that the bible doesn't teach us to publically malign our christian leaders.  If you have a disagreement, you approach them personally first and be reconciled.  Sundquist believes it is necessary to air what he sees as dirty laundry within the church for everyone to see.  This only convinces non-believers that the church is hypocritcal, because he makes it appear that way.  When in fact, we are all sinners, including Sundquist, and we need to allow for grace.  He condems grace.  I just hope he soon sees the error here.  In the meantime, I'm sure if he attended Saddleback Church he'd be welcomed, if he left the chip on his shoulder at home and engaged in some realistic search of scriptures with a leader.  As long as he was willing to admit he might be wrong in his interpretation of a scriptures, and his condemnation of every bible translation except the KJV.

Sundquist is clearly under the influence of a spirit of hate in this book.  Satan wants nothing more than for us to treat the scripture in such a way as to make it impossible to apply to our lives.  Sundquist sets a standard that is similar to the Pharisees of Jesus' time, turning the New Testament into a system of inflexible law.  Jesus was also criticized for associating with the ungodly, but He purposely did so to demonstrate how we should love.  Somehow that is lost in Sundquist's message.  Thank God Saddleback provides a place for people to deal with their addictions in a way that develops a relationship with God.  Sundquist would discommunicate these people from his church until they were reformed.  This is very contrary to all the scripture that admonishes us to care for the poor and the sick.  As a result, only the self-sufficient would be welcome to attend services.  That is contrary to what the New Testament teaches in every respect.  He seems opposed to the Great Commission and the Great Commandment.

This book is a waste of time.  I've thrown my copy in the trash, because I don't want to encourage anyone to read it.  It is a dangerous book to one's spiritual health
