Alice Randall's original concept for "The Wind Done Gone" was for it to be a parody of "Gone with the Wind" in the style of "Shamela."  I haven't read "Shamela" (or "Pamela," which it is based on), but from what I have gathered, "Pamela" is a story about a virtuous woman who scorns her employer's advances, while in "Shamela," this woman is turned into a whore who was playing her employer all along.

If Randall was trying to make a story like that, then she succeeded.  If "Gone with the Wind" was a world of strong, intelligent, good white Southerners and their stupid but kind-hearted black slaves; then "The Wind Done Gone" is a novel where those white people are shown to be morons and fools who understand little and are really controlled by those they thought they ruled (unless they're gay, like "Dreamy Gentleman" and "Beauty" - then they're nice people).  In this sense, "The Wind Done Gone" succeeds.

Unfortunately, Randall was so busy ripping down the characters of "Gone with the Wind" that she forgot to create her own.  I totally agree that Cynara/Cinnamon/Cindy is a Mary Sue.  Unfortunately, she's not a very interesting one.  She spends most of the story whining and moping about how she is so beautiful yet no one will ever accept her because she is black and she can't believe her parents betrayed her and on and on and on...  The only time she does anything is when she leaves R. and enters into an improbable menage-a-trois with a black Congressman and a black woman who reminds her of Mealy Mouth (Melanie).  By that time, I could care less.

With a boring heroine (and that's particuarly insulting, considering what a complex heroine Scarlett O'Hara was) and a story that goes nowhere, this book doesn't have much.  I didn't buy that any of the characters of "Gone with the Wind" would act as they did in this book.  The idea of Scarlett taking blame for something Cynara did, Melanie killing a slave out of anger, or Gerald having sex with Mammy is preposterous.  However, if Randall had managed to make an interesting story, I would have forgiven it.  Unfortunately, she didn't.  The only character who really benefited from any revision was Lady (Ellen O'Hara) but the revelation that she had black blood seemed to only make an unclear point.  This book is good as a curiosity, and nothing more. 
