After reading the book and comments made by few other readers. It is easy to see, while this book impresses some as  "riveting" or "breathtaking in its scop". Many of those us who are  familiar with the Arab-Israeli relationship first hand, find it also a "riveting" and breathtaking" with its scop of out of touch with realities, hypocrisy by this educated writer. Outright attempt to distort facts in the region just to drive his point across.

On his introduction, Abunimah tries to portray a picture where, Jews and Muslims have always lived in peace and harmony. He writes: (page 2)  "Dr. Hirsh (a Jew) was very kind man". And "on Jewish holidays my grandparents would send food to Dr. Hirsh". Well Mr. Abunimah, at the same time, Jews living throughout the Arab & Islamic states, and in Hebron itself, they would be lucky to get an acknowledgement of basic respect as humans from their Muslim neighbors. His grandparent were doing so to their Jewish neighbors, while Muslims highest religious authority, Haj Al Husseiny, the Mufti of Jerusalem had met Hitler (28 November, 1941) to put the Nazis holocaust against Jews in Palestine into action.  

Despite Israel's clear intention, cooperation (camp David 2000) and full withdrawal from Gaza in August 2005, to allow Pals self rule,  Abunimah clearly misrepresent these fact to suggest (page 12) Israel never had any intention to allow a Palestinian state.  

Furthermore, he claims (page 13) that "they (Palestinians) are unlikely to forget about their homes and agree to resettle elsewhere with a new identity". Well Mr. Abunimah, according to your own admission, your own parents did exactly that, and seem to have done quite well, sending their son to Princeton University. The same is true for hundreds of thousands other Palestinians living in the west (and Jordan) as full citizens

Again, he repeats the example of Switzerland, Belgium, India and other bi-national states as an example for Israel to follow. Have you noticed, NONE of them is an Islamic-majority states, where such bi-national provision have even exist. There are none.

He goes on and theorizes that under his bi-national condition, (page 17), Hamas will live in peace and harmony side by side with Jews. Unless he failed to read Hamas's own 1988 Charter (Articles 6, 7, 11 & 13).  Some of which are quotes right from the Holy Islamic scriptures, ordering Muslims to kill Jews where ever they find them.

His distortion of UN resolution 242 is the most glaring and conspicuous one. He writes (page 25) "inadmissibility of the acquisition of territories by war  and the need to work for a just and lasting peace in which every state in the area in live in security" he adds "In exchange for Israeli withdrawal from THE occupied territories".

Here is the exact text of that Resolution
1. (i) Withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict;
(ii) Termination of all claims or states of belligerency and respect for and acknowledgement of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every State in the area and their right to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force;

In (i) the word "The" intentionally and deliberately was omitted by the drafters of the resolution itself. Yet, through cleaver word-game, Abunimah misleads readers to believe otherwise.

His excessive quotation from Israeli scholars (pages 85-87) to add credibility to his deluded perception of an end of Israel as we know it today, is more then intellectual dishonesty. [...] No rational scholar in any country will write a credible research against the very principals of his own country, unless he is being quoted out out of context, as Abunimah seem to be doing. 

Chapter 4: A united Democratic State in Palestine-Israel
He opens up this chapter with "what if?" (page 105) Pals and Israelis live in one state happily ever after. 
The question begs. What if the author can NOT substantiate his lofty theory, even with a single example, where Jews (or other non-Muslims) have lived in peace and harmony with Muslim dominated states throughput the entire ME for past 1350 years. Free to practice their religion. Free to express their opinion. Free of degrading and humiliating Dihimmi system of apartheid.

What if, Jews, Druzs, Bahai'is and Christian citizens of Israel look around, in Iraq, Gaza, Lebanon and elsewhere to witness how Arab & Muslims settle their political differences through murder and mayhem. To realize what is in store for them once they become minorities under bi-national conditions. 
What if Muslims in the new state will decide to follow the foot steps of other Muslims in France, and elsewhere and demand the application of Sharia law in the country.  

Here is another diatribe from this educated man. He offers (page 110) to copy the texts of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in N. Ireland, and apply it to the newly created Israeli-Palestine state. 
3. "The state, recognizing the distinctive identities of the national communities". Etc.
Consider these. In 600 AD, there were countless cultural, different languages by different communities in existance throughout the ME & Gulf region. 100 years later, their respective cultural, languages and 6000 years of  histories were replaced by Islam and the language of Arabic, all gone. People were robbed of their own identities, replaced with Arab names, and a religious dogma forced upon them against their wish. 
Once the Muslims population reached 51% in the new state, Jews and other non-Muslim minorities would end up with  same fate.

Chapter Five: learning From South Africa.
I believe it was Joseph Gobbles, the Nazi propaganda chief whom during WWII said it succinctly. "A lie, if you repeat it often enough, sooner or later, people will believe it as the truth."
In this chapter the author spends 26 pages talking about the reconciliation between the whites & the blacks. 
In reality, we all know that South Africa conjure up an image of Apartheid. His assumption is, if he wraps the the "S. Africa" noose around Israel, often enough. Soon or later people will associate Israel as as apartheid and racist state. Otherwise, why write a whole chapter about another country which has next to nothing in common with Israel, Palestine, nor the Jews or Muslims. 

A country which has a Judge serving in its Supreme Court, a member of cabinet, and 10 representatives from its minority segment, it can not be labels as Apartheid state as Abunimah tries to plaster that image on the Jewish majority state of Israel.

In summery, I would say this is a poorly researched book, with little resemblance to reality. He fails to recognize the deep and insurmountable divisions between not only the Israelis & the Palestinians. But unfortunately between Jews & Muslims going back since the dawn of Islam. 

Israel is already a multi-national state. A melting spot for people from many different countries, and religions. Israel has already proved that under its current population mix, it will remain as open, and democratic state. Where respect for freedom and democratic values rain supreme. A place where no one is above the law.

This is yet another cleaver and insidious attempt by another Arab intellectual to cause the eventual subjugation or removal of the Jews from the region - all wrapped in a Princetonian eloquent language, to mislead those unfamiliar or otherwise uninitiated readers into believing in his scheme of illusive panacea
