I bought this book thinking that there was some secret "neural" or "linguistic" programming (like a certain set of instructions) I could follow to gain some sort of advantage in life, and what I got was just a lot of the same self-help stuff that seems to have been already covered by many others.  The "technology" is really just learning how to think of things differently; particularly negative things that drag you down.

There are also some ideas related to communications and establishing repoir with others that could come in handy.

That said, precious little in this book struck me as being "new".  And to add bewilderment to my dissappointment there were also two particularly logic defying ideas that form the foundation of this "technology".

First, "Every behavior is useful in some context".   Hmmm, this was written in 1994.  Did having a bunch of fanatics fly airliners into the World Trade Center maybe cause this presupposition to come into question?

Second, "If one person can do something, anyone can learn to do it."  

That's right.  One person figured out that mass equals energy times the speed of light squared, and so anyone could learn to figure out the profound principles that govern our universe.  If one person can design a microprocessor chip, anyone can learn to.  If one person can compose a recording like "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts" or "Pet Sounds", then anyone can learn to.  If one person can carve a statue of David out of marble (who did that again?), anyone can learn to!

I could be a nuclear physicist, a computer engineering genious, a  classical music composer, an opera star, a nobel prize winning economist --you name it -- simply because someone else did!   Brilliant. 

Well, I gotta cut this short because today I'm writing a bestselling novel, recording the next great love song, and designing an ion-propulsion engine for space travel.  After all, one person has done those things.  I can learn to do them too. 

Seriously, I gave this book two stars instead of one because if the reader has geniunely never been introduced to some of the thought pattern changing techniques in this book, then he or she could actually benefit from reading it.  I could probably stand a little more "inner alignment" myself.  
