I know that this was a memoir, but at one chapter, the title is definately misleading, and many of the goals and events received highly biased coverage.

Ms. Zia begins with a survey of history of how Asians were treated in America.  While I agree that the treatement was not ideal and certainly horrific by today's standards, there is absolutely no historical context here.  Unfortunately, Blacks were treated MUCH worse.  Catholics were vilified far before Asians were, and for much longer.  The way she presents things, you would only think that Asians were getting the short end of the stick.

She also harps on the lack of positive images of Asians in the media.  She self selects a small sampling, while there has been an increasingly large number of positive Asian role models in American culture.  Do the Italians whine when most Italian characters in media culture are mobsters?  She even imagines slights where they don't exist - for example, Sulu in Star Trek.  He was hard working to be sure (not that there is anything wrong with that), but as any fan of the series will tell you, he DID have a swashbuckling side to him.  If there is anyone who was emotionless and hard working, that would have been Spock, played by a white.  Besides, Sulu eventually made captain of the best vessel in the fleet.  So much for a negative image.

She gets into the issue of ethnic casting, focusing on Miss Saigon.  Well, it works both ways.  If only Asians can portray Asians, then Asians shouldn't portray whites either.  Too bad Lucy Liu.  Her character in Charlie's Angels was WHITE in the series, but was made half-Asian in the movies.  Opps, Lucy isn't even half Asian.

I would like to see Helen come over here to Asia to complain about the negative images of foreigners.  How many negative images of foreigners exist in Hong Kong and Japanese movies?  There was an advertising campaign here in Taiwan where a company had three white men in jail costumes after being arrested.  Foreigners are constantly portrayed by media outlets in several Asian countries in a negative light.  Why can't you get on your soapbox about that?

She comments on how many Asians are complemented on their English even if they have been in the U.S. their whole life.  Well, how many people who look white in Asia have been here their whole lives, but are still referred to as foreigners?  It works both ways Ms. Zia. 

She also gets into her homosexuality.  What does THAT have to do with Asian American Dreams?  Like most Americans, those of Asian descent are opposed to homosexuality.  

Finally, there is the notion of hyphenated Americanism (though she technically doesn't succomb to it because the omits the hyphen.)  She wants Asians to be treated as equals in America.  I have no problem with that.  I would like to see the same thing.  However, when you put your ethnic homeland BEFORE American in what you call yourself, how do you think you will ever be accepted as truly American
