As with many of Chomsky's books over the last 15 years, Imperial Ambitions is a collection of transcribed 'conversations' with his longstanding interlocutor, David Barsamian, rather than a sustained work of political analysis. Both the form and the content illustrate one of the conundrums about this singular figure in the world of ideas. Chomsky occupies an important place in the history of American political campaigning, but no place at all in the study of political history. His advocates acknowledge this, while complaining of the injustice. (John Summers, who teaches social studies at Harvard, thunders: 'Chomsky is one of the most widely read political intellectuals in the world. Academic history pretends he does not exist.') Chomsky's latest book exemplifies the weaknesses that infuriate those academic historians. 

Though he apparently denies it, Chomsky has advanced since his earliest writings a comparison of the US to Nazi Germany, and this conceit runs through Imperial Ambitions as it does the rest of Chomsky's oeuvre. Chomsky declares, for example, that the invasion of Iraq "is the crime for which the Nazis were hanged at Nuremberg, the act of aggression". You could have plausibly, though not necessarily correctly, argued a prudential case against the Iraq War. You could have argued, against the evidence of the erosion of the policy of containment, that coercive inspections and diplomatic pressure might have tempered a gangster regime and enhanced the prospects for political reform. But to depict Iraq as the victim of 'the crime for which the Nazis were hanged' is to place a casuistical stress on a doctrine of sovereignty that real progressives - statesmen such as Tony Blair and Bernard Kouchner - have understood as a defence of quietism and reaction. Chomsky is at least consistent. During the Bosnian catastrophe Chomsky was asked by Barsamian in another of these insubstantial volumes of interviews - What Uncle Sam Really Wants, 1994 - whether Serb encampments outside Sarajevo should have been bombed. Chomsky responded with a fantastically tortuous answer that concluded, 'It's not so simple.' Douglas Hurd and John Major themselves could scarcely have come up with a feebler counsel of inaction.

It is not merely the prescriptions in Imperial Ambitions that are perplexing. Chomsky is the master of the bold historical declamation to which there is a lot less than meets the eye. No responsible historian, even in this stream-of-consciousness format, could risk his reputation with such judgements as, 'The Cuban missile crisis was largely a result of a major campaign of international terrorism aimed at overthrowing Castro - what's now called regime change, which spurred Cuba to bring in Russian missiles as a defensive measure.' One wonders what Chomsky makes of the historical evidence that Castro scared Khrushchev witless by urging him to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike against the United States (on 26 October 1962 Castro sent a cable to Khrushchev urging such an 'act of legitimate defence, however harsh and terrible the solution would be').

Chomsky adopts a similar practice with recent events too. Extraordinarily, he claims the British Government in 2003 mounted an inquiry into the BBC because the corporation wasn't compliant enough in reporting the news as the Government wanted it presented. Chomsky concludes: "The very fact that the inquiry took place is a function of the very low commitment to freedom of speech in England."

Chomsky's casual insults against entire nationalities are not novel (in his hagiography of Chomsky, Robert Barsky quotes his hero's reflections on 'the highly parochial and remarkably illiterate culture' of, as it happens, France). But what may surprise some readers, certainly in the UK, is that Chomsky is here referring to the Hutton Inquiry. The inquiry was established not to regulate public-service broadcasting, but - according to its own remit - 'urgently to conduct an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr [David] Kelly', the scientist whose tragic suicide caused the gravest of political crises for Tony Blair. The restrictiveness of its remit was actually criticised by Opposition politicians, who felt it was thereby allowing the Prime Minister to elude accountability.

Chomsky's popularity as a public intellectual is immense, and his books are well represented in the politics and history departments of any substantial bookshop in the UK or North America. Why this should be is a matter of some wonderment, but anecdotal evidence suggests that a large proportion of Chomsky's audience comprises those of college age. There will surely be many readers of this book across university campuses who will read Chomsky's description of the British government's nefarious designs on the right to free expression with incredulity and righteous anger. At least they will be halfway to a considered appreciation of Imperial Ambitions, for which incredulity is the appropriate response. 
