     Aw, Vince, promises promises.  He promised to give us an insider's look at the glamorous world of jet setting professional tennis stars as well as an in depth look at what it takes to be a top player.  He delivered a double fault.  Break Point is more of a running head commentary of a man who comes off as borderline manic-depressive.  He wins a few matches, loses more, he's lowerer than a snail, then he's full of hope with feathers that he can turn it all round with preserverence.  We as readers get it, we as tennis fan sympathize but in Vince's books are sympathy wears then fast as we encounter the same grousing page after page with little if any real insight.  This kind of narration dominates the book though, on a few occasions, Vince takes a look at his fellow players.  He gets a little "catty" in regard to James Blake and he disses a few others but doesn't give much in the way of insider information to give us a true tell all (Micheal Mewhaw he's not).  Heck, Spadea even admits quite a few times that he is not buddy buddy with any other players and rarely socializes with the other guys.  When he does speak about attending a party here or there he makes a point of letting us know he doesn't stay long, and though he protests that he is not judgemental, he comes down rather hard on other players who are not as chaste in the area of romance as he is.  
     Spadea does talk alot about women in his book.  He even gives us a hilarious, though not meant to be, analysis of how to sucessfully woe women.  He is, however, a tease.  Spadea talks of meeting up with "hot" women and even taking them back to his hotel, but he quickly begs off after a little making out and sends the women back where they come from.  He is, in essence, a tease to these women who offer their sexual favors so willingly (at least he protrays them this way.
    The book would be a total loss, not worth a single star, except that it does offer the reader a view of a tennis family and Spadea is his most honest and most empathetic in describing his relationship with his father.  
    It is too bad Vince spends more time on "rapping" and "whining" instead of giving us the human up close details we crave about the professional tennis players we admire from a distance
