As a follow-on to Devils On The Deep Blue Sea, I decided to read this book...  Cruise Ship Blues - The Underside of the Cruise Industry by Ross A. Klein.  While I expected a bit more muckraking than Devils, this was seemingly just one man's personal vendetta against the cruise industry.  This one didn't sit well with me...

Contents: The Inaugural Sail - An Introduction To The Cruise Industry; Onboard the Floating Resort; The Myth of the All-Inclusive Vacation; Beyond the Muster Drill; "Save The Waves" - Sounds Good, But..., Below the Passenger Deck; Everything Would Run Fine... But Passengers Keep Getting In The Way; What Can Be Done?; Mishaps At Sea; Endnotes; Index; About the Author

Klein figures he's qualified to write this because he's taken over 30 cruises spending over 300 days at sea, and he's got degrees in social work.  Fine...  But what follows is a litany of facts and figures to prove his points that the cruise industry is rotten to the core.  For instance, the chapter about the all-inclusive vacation starts out with the premise that a cruise is marketed as a single cost vacation, but that you are nailed with additional charges and opportunities to spend at every turn.  He figures this is the cruise industry's fault because people don't know that they are only looking at a fraction of the cost of the cruise in the sticker price.  As someone who has done a fair amount of cruising himself, I say "so?".  Yes, it'd be nice to get free internet onboard, but you don't.  Live with it.  It'd be nice to get free drinks, but you don't.  Live with it.  If you make the mistake of not understanding this, it's your fault.  And every chapter backs up his points with endless examples of all the failings from about 1990 on...  accidents, crew crimes, etc.  This is not to say that there aren't serious problems.  Staff hired for cruises in many cases are nearly slaves considering how hard they are worked and how little they are paid.  But Klein's way of presenting all this seems more self-serving than helpful.

I thought the book's viewpoint was summed up well in an incident at the end of chapter six.  He recounts an incident on a cruise where the music at the bar was too loud, and a number of passengers repeatedly asked for it to be adjusted or changed.  He spoke to the supervisors, onboard management, wrote the company's CEO, and then contacted the parent company's CEO.  This ended with his travel agent being told that he and his partner are no longer welcome aboard this cruise line.  You could take the position that the company should have been more accommodating, but this sort of escalating behavior for something relatively small usually points to some underlying issues with the complainer, in my opinion...

I learned quite a bit from Devils, and felt that both sides of the issues were fairly presented.  In Cruise Ship Blues, I was subjected to a one man crusade against personal perceived wrongs, and it was hard to separate the content from the delivery.  Bottom line...  there are better books that cover the industry problems, and I'd almost go on a cruise again just to spite this writer..
