Alright.  Here we go.  Let me first start by saying, I LOVE Neil LaBute and his writing.  He's hard, gritty, and exposes all that deep, personal stuff that our bottled up society tries so desperatly to hide.  I, myself, have become inspired many times to write my own works after reading his shows.  I would consider him, as well do many of my colleges, to be one of the greatest examples of a contemporary theatre playwright. 

But he kinda missed the boat with this one.

Sure, it was a good idea.  But just because it was a good idea doesn't mean it goes anywhere.  Much like this play.  It goes nowhere.  In fact, it never starts.  It's just kinda like that dumb horse that forgets to run after the gun is fired.  We just see some characters enter, talk about pointless stuff, and they leave.  It really doesn't pick up until the last few chapters, but even then it isn't satisfying enough to make up for the whole other eighty something pages you had to dredge through just to get to that point.

And maybe that's what he wanted.  Nothing characters with no depth and a serious lack of direction, making their distance from there, quite a long and arduous task, especially for characters of their caliber, or lack of it.  The mere thought of any sort of positive advancement in their lives would cause any one of them to either give up a go drink a 40 or send them into a depression so deep that suicide is the only comfort.  So those characters sit there, twiddling their thumbs, waiting in their static lives for something to come along a give them a Second of Pleasure (read that one, it's great!).  Shoot, I bet if someone were to burp it would give them the most action they'd ever seen.

So, once again, I'm sorry Neil LaBute, but this one just wasn't your best work.  I, being a young playwright myself, have turned a lot of bad work.  And some good stuff too.  Much like a lot of his other works.

I would highly recommend The Shape of Things (my personal favorite), The Mercy Seat, Seconds of Pleasure, and Bash.  All are amazing testaments to the shining and shocking brilliance that is Neil LaBute
