Briefly, the authors claim that the Egyptian  Book of the Dead contains information concerning a catastrophe that happened in 9792 BC, when the earth stopped its rotation and started to rotate in the opposite direction, causing the tidal wave that swamped Atlantis. The knowledge was carried to Egypt, where the Atlantean kings became the gods of Egyptian mythology. The knowledge of the catastrophe, and how to predict its future arrival, was encoded into the texts which were included in the collection known as  "The Book of Coming Forth by Day" (the Book of the Dead), but it was primarily guarded for posterity in The Labyrinth, which was purpose-built by the Atlantean descendants as an astronomical observatory. The authors claim that the Labyrinth was not destroyed, as claimed by the Egyptologists, but lies buried at a location they discovered by laying a sky-map over a map of Egypt, (with Giza as the belt of Orion), and projecting the Hyades star-group (known as "the labyrinth") onto the ground. 

They also discovered that there was a retrograde loop of Venus in the year 9792 BC, that matches another one in 2012, and after finding it, discovered that the phenomenon was encoded into the Book of the Dead, as an astronomical signal that the catastrophe is at hand...so the forthcoming loop signifies a coming Atlantis-like flood in 2012!

However, their claims don't hold up to investigation! When the constellation of Orion is overlaid on a map of the Giza pyramids, the Hyades are not even in the same direction as the pyramid at Hawara, where the authors say the Labyrinth building is located.

What is more, there are actually 12 retrograde loops of Venus over the Orion constellation, between 1924 and 2012, due to the fact that a loop happens in a different place around the horizon over a  period of 8 years, forming a pentagram if the points are joined up...but the start-point of the pentagram moves by about 2.4 degrees each revolution. So, when the 12 loops are compared to the one in 9792 BC, it turns out that the most accurate repetition of the 9792 BC loop is the one that occurred in 1948...with no Atlantis cataclysm just after it!

These facts destroy the whole thesis of the book!

For the full review, with pictures, links and reply from the authors, go to the diagnosis2012 websit
