John Hagee has got to be one of the most ignorant, uneducated bumpkins ever to have been published in this country. "Jerusalem Countdown" reads like a last-minute book report slapped together by a 15 year old simpleton. Its horribly written pages are jam-packed with blatantly false (and of course, un-cited) historical assertions, certifiable paranoia, war-mongering, religious bias (compares Catholicism with Satanism and paganism) and worst of all, a false gospel supported by the most moronic Biblical exegesis I've heard since David Koresh was holed up with the Branch Davidians at Waco. Hagee believes that Jews do not need to accept Christ to be saved and that we must unconditionally support Israel to the point of making war on its enemies, specifically Iran. This book would be laughable if this modern-day Judaizer didn't have the ear of Presidents and the loyalty of millions of credulous followers. 

To give a few examples of the level of "scholarship" in this book, on pg 65 he says that 1 million Jews were living in Israel at the time of the crucifixion. On pg 68 he says that 1.1 million Jews were killed during the siege of Jerusalem a few decades later. Did more Jews than existed in the whole land of Israel somehow crowd into the city of Jerusalem knowing that they would be more easily slaughtered there? On pg 69, Hagee writes that "Hellenistic Christians" abandoned the Jewish Christians during the seige, thereby bringing about the permanent separation of Gentile and Jewish followers of Christ. His history is just not true. Leaving aside his unintelligible statement about "causing a separation", the records tell us simply that Christians left Jerusalem for Pella during the seige. In any case, Hagee must have been confused when he wrote that, because a few pages later (72), he says that it was the Edict of Milan in the year 313 which caused the separation of Jew and Christian. Since I'm at a loss as to how the legalization of Christianity could cause a Jewish/Christian rift that in reality existed since the time of the Apostles, I'll just go on to quote his hilarious statement that because of the Edict, the "Roman Church grew in power until it ruled most of the known world through Papal States." Another funny one was when he quoted the early Church Fathers as calling the Jews "shylocks" (pg 72). Since that word was only coined by Shakespeare some 1200 years or so after the Church Fathers, I was glad to see a rare citation next to the quote. Unfortunately, Hagee's source for the quote was one of his own books! He also says (pg 78) that Martin Luther died two days after writing his famous tract against the Jews, presumably as punishment from God for daring to speak against His "Chosen People". In reality, Luther died 3 years after the publication of "On the Jews and their Lies". Hagee claims that the Catholic Church and Hitler "conspired" to exterminate the Jews. The Pope not only publicly condemned Nazism but saved somewhere around 800,000 Jews from death, according to Jewish historians. The Pope's intercession for the Jews was so great that the Chief Rabbi of Rome converted to Catholicism after the war and took the Pope's name as his own. Hagee claims that the name of the city of Moscow is derived from Hebrew (pg 104), and that Russia will invade Israel because it needs a warm water port and access to oil. There are plenty of warm water ports a lot closer than Israel, and it was just reported that Russia has the largest oil reserves in the world, even larger than Saudi Arabia. Hagee also dishonestly leaves the impression that Russia is still an officially atheistic nation, the better to shoehorn it into his warped eschatology, which he incompetently and incompletely cribbed from "The Late, Great Planet Earth" anyway. The list goes on and on. 

Of course, the main problem is not Hagee's demonstrable historical ignorance but his warped theological ideas. I don't even know why Hagee is a Christian minister, except perhaps he best serves his Israeli masters through his influence over us stupid goyim. Hagee delights in calling Jesus Christ a "prominent Jewish rabbi from Nazareth." He says that Jesus was not a Christian (pg 66). Hagee, like the first century Judaizers condemned by Paul, Peter and every single early Christian of authority, believes that the Old Covenant is still in effect. This belief is a contradiction of basic Christianity and it is a testament to the theological ignorance of his followers that he has not been cast from the pulpit in disgrace. I guess when you live in a country where anyone can start his own "church", any half-baked theological concept can get off the ground, especially with enough Israeli shekels. (Hagee's church is entitled "evangelical nondenominational", two of the most meaningless and disingenuous terms in current parlance. In practice, that means that Hagee runs a personality cult that is answerable to no denominational authority, except perhaps the Republican Party or the Israeli embassy. He describes Jesus as an "angry, radical right-winger"). Hagee ignores the fact that the Old Covenant was conditional (DT 30:15-20) and despite frequent forgiveness by God, the Hebrews constantly rejected God's mercy, culminating in the crucifixion of the Savior. Jesus said that anyone who rejects Him rejects the one who sent Him. (LK 10:16) Hagee simply twists and misrepresents Scripture to such a degree that it's very difficult to ascribe a charitable explanation for his exegesis. He has powerful financial supporters he has to satisfy, the Gospel be damned. The entire New Testament proclaims the end of the Old Covenant and its replacement by a better way (2 Cor 3:7-11)(Heb 7:18-19). Hagee describes that Christian message as "anti-Semitism". To cite all the New Testament verses (as well as Old Testament foreshadowing) would fill up this entire page. Suffice it to say, Jesus Christ said, "I am the way, the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me." (JN 14:6) John Hagee would probably report Him to the Anti-Defamation League
