This book is a silly attempt to try and prove that a book, (the Bible) which is actually a compilation of stories, fables, letters, and poems, written over hundreds of years, was some how divinely inspired.  There are  numerous problems with this theory of Bible Codes.  First of all, there are  no original copies of Old Testament manuscripts to use for such an endeavor  so the author is therefore using copies of copies of copies to find his  codes.  In addition, vowels did not exist in ancient Hebrew, therefore  finding words that seem improbable in English are much more probable in  Hebrew. For instance, Jeffrey claims that the death of Princess Diana can  be found through the codes.  In Hebrew, &quot;Princess&quot; is spelled  with only 3 letters.  In fact, practically every word that Bible Coders  have searched for are made up of very few letters once they are translated  to ancient Hebrew. How hard is it to find &quot;significant&quot; words  that consist of only three or four letters, in a text the size of the  Bible?  In addition, there is no limit on the space of the intervals that  Jeffrey's uses. In one case the interval between letters is 3191.  So we  have an enormous text, no limit on the number of intervals, a language made  up of very short words, and connections are allowed to be made backward or  forward. Given this loose criteria, it would be less probable to not find  numerous &quot;hidden messages.&quot;  Using this criteria, hidden messages  could be found in any book. In fact, numerous hidden messages have been  found in &quot;Moby Dick&quot; and &quot;War and Peace,&quot; but I guess  it is a possibility that those books were divinely inspired as well. After  reading this book, I highly recommend that you counter balance it with a  book that encourages critical thinking and skepticism such as Richard  Dawkins' &quot;Unweaving the Rainbow,&quot; Carl Sagan's &quot;The Demon  Haunted World,&quot; or Michael Shermer's &quot;Why People Believe Weird  Things.&quot
