This is much more like a talk between a Christian follower with a mimic Buddhist, anything but a talk between Jesus and Buddha as it is claimed to be. Such an attempt is not wise. It is certainly painting a negative image on Buddha while not doing Jesus any good because ignorant criticism on Buddhism invites contempt on Christians. Dr. Z.'s devotion is not necessarily perfect Christian. His knowledge about Buddhism does not even touch even the most basic elementary level. According to Buddhism, reincarnation, a karmic process of owing and paying, is one painful fact of all the sentient beings suffer in the 6 realms of reincarnation, not the purpose of Buddhism, not even Buddha's theory. 

In the age when every religion can claim itself to be superior to others, their God is more powerful or superior than other God? What should we do? Well, for one thing I respect Buddha a lot. Buddha said for every doctrine of all the religions, including Buddhism itself, one must exercise his best judgment before accepting and following it. Fair? I believe most people should think it is a fair law. To me, every one who appreciates Jesus after exercising his best judgment should also appreciate Buddha or Buddhism, if he is exposed to Buddhism sufficiently. 

Some Christians believe Buddha is a human being while Jesus is a divine being. Well, if we use our flesh eyes to look at both Jesus and Buddha, they both were human being with a human body and human flesh. If we can look at them with our wisdom eyes, they both are divine, well superior to our human beings. Now, many Christians may disagree, Jesus has a lot supernatural capabilities while Buddha does not. Well, this is because most Christians have not been well informed or simply disbelieve the Buddha's count-parts. Buddha showed many of these capabilities in much more incredible scale and nature, even many Buddhists are able to do the same since ancient time to nowadays. This is only a matter of believe-it-or-not. On the other hand, Buddha purposely downplayed these capabilities and even reprimanded any focusing on these capabilities from some of his followers. According to Buddha, the supernatural capabilities are not judgmental criteria of good and evil or divine and non-divine as devils may have the same capabilities. Buddha even said every sentient being is able to possess the same power through correct practicing. However, they have nothing to do with liberation. Liberation starts with a right view, right belief and right thinking. There are many ways (typically 84000) leading to liberation. Some ways emphasize on one's own efforts. There are many, however, emphasize on the helps and rescues from Buddha, particularly like Pureland (biggest Buddhist school in Chinese Buddhism) and Tibetan Buddhism. There are 8 mahayana schools (the Greater Vessels) and 2 theraveda schools (hinaya, the Smaller Vessels). All 8 mahayana schools accept Pureland practice though some Buddhists prefer their own efforts. Dr. Z.'s saying that "Buddhism is based on one's own effort" is just his partial observation on the theraveda parts in the Buddhism where Buddha focused mainly on explaining the principle of darma. Dr. Z's conclusion about "no-self" is clearly lacking the correct understanding. It is a big topical that I can not exhaust in this review.

In conclusion, I don't feel appropriate at all for Dr. Z's understanding about Buddhism. It is close to ignorance. Any one who likes to do the comparative study on Buddhism, should at least at the minimum scale, read some typical sutras from all 3 major schools, the Small Vessel, the Greater Vessel, the Diamond Vessel, not just dabbing lightly on the Smaller Vessel alone. Attention must be paid to the volume of Buddha's sutras which is 100 times larger than the Bible and covering much wider range for the issues and problems concerning liberation. 
