It would be easy to rubbish this book. Even Fleming fans draw back from it a little because it is not really one of the series. It stands apart to some extent as a kind of old fashioned adventure story. It is easy to see why it was chosen to be the first to be filmed rather than Casino Royale - the first in the series. Before `The Spy Who Came in from the Cold" they were doubtful of the appeal of a spy story to a mass cinema audience and hedged their bets by filming the one they felt to be most `mainstream' Once they had picked Dr No the film makers threw away the order of the books and the character development that runs through the series from the vulnerability Bond displayed at the beginning to his nearly total disintegration near the end. The impossibility of the series - that Bond could actually have survived so long when he was a bordering 40 bungler with a fatal flaw in the libido department - is also sidestepped by the films making him out to be a totally different character; a superhero with an impressive range of skills and gadgets that always work! The films are impossible for a different reason; in an age of information technology and universal surveillance with information a salable commodity Bond would only have lasted as long as one assignment before his cover was well and truly blown and he was reduced to appearances on Jerry Springer to supplement his Government Pension. Had the Bond of the books been real he would have been routinely shot by a hired hit man using a telescopic gun sight and nothing more technically advanced than that! 

	I have picked Dr No because it is widely regarded as untypical and yet it was the first I read - although I read it before seeing the film. I found the prose stark and simple. Fleming's habit of saying `Bond said' at every utterance reminded me of Janet and John books. But I was captivated by some of his description that seemed to me - at the age of 13 - to be striking and original. I loved the idea of the month of March coming in `like a rattlesnake' or a steel band sounding like `a giant spider dancing on a xylophone' and I was more forgiving then of some of the excesses. Yet I found his stereotyping of Jamaican Quarrel ridiculous "Quick Boss! Dey's a commin'!" - surely it must have been offensive! I was quick to notice that it was not carried over into the film. Although I had  uncomfortable moments when I thought the camera pointed up one or two visual gags - on Quarrel's facial expression at seeing a crab pass close by his face for example. Fleming lays this kind of thing with a trowel. Generally the writing is not just competent, it is stylishly compelling. Fleming is easy to read compared for example to Stephen King. Fleming is the ideal airport author because Bond books are not that long and you can get well into them before your flight is over - perhaps even finish them on a long transatlantic flight; something that must have contributed to the sales. Fleming is undemanding. And he does make one want to know what is going to happen. His characterisation is spartan but this may be a strength in this kind of fiction as male readers will want Bond to be as lightly drawn as possible so that they can easily identify with him while female readers will have their own idea of what Bond looks like. 

As for the women - it is possibly not entirely fair to dismiss them as fantasy figures! 

I must admit that when I read Dr No for the first time I found Honeychild Rider an interesting role model! The idea of ducking out of school to live by myself in a ruined house, educating myself with an encyclopaedia and assassinating the local sex pests with black widow spiders appealed to my Gothic sensibilities! Had I written the book I would just have given Honey more to do! She obviously had plenty of spirit and was street wise, athletic and should have been pretty good in the jungle warfare department too I would have thought! She is potentially such a good female adventure heroine that it is a disappointment that once Bond turns up her own story is put on hold - so to speak. Of course we might miss this on first reading because we have not seen things from her point of view. But on second reading it becomes a considerable weakness because when she appears we think "Oh yes! She's the woman with the black widow spider and the tough upbringing who goes diving for shells and - wait a minute! Hey! When do we get to see some of that?" By the end of the book she is reduced to polishing the family silver and cooking Bond's supper! By the next book Bond has thrown her over. Her life is ended as far as the reader is concerned. She is relegated to a footnote in Bond's endlessly repeating cycle of `kiss kiss bang bang' as it has been felicitously described! 

	In fact Honey is not a typical `Bond Woman' for another reason. She has no relevance to the plot. She is not a `McGuffin' - which the others tend to be. She is not the villain's mistress or the victim of the villain's machinations. She just wanders on, titillates and vanishes. Even the bit of hokum about her sailing up to the beach without lowering her sail and thus showing up on Dr No's radar is only the slightest excuse. She is not even with Bond very much except as window dressing and she might be dead for all we know. Dr No has her tied down in the path of the dreaded killer crabs - and she knows enough about crabs to just go to sleep until they have crawled over her. This book's obsession with wildlife as a matter of execution is another unusual feature. Besides the crab and the black widow; Bond is nearly stung to death by a centipede and almost eaten by a giant squid and Dr No is finally despatched under a pile of seagull droppings! Bond has to crawl through a cage of deadly spiders and then there is the swamp where all three adventurers risk being nibbled to death by all manner of insects and leaches! 

	The name `Honey' seems to indicate Fleming's wish to sweeten a bitter pill. He does tend to dwell on the dirty and unsavoury in this story. There is an interesting sidelight that one of his associates cast on this in that when at a beach party a woman he was interested in went behind a rock to urinate Fleming was so shocked that he shunned her from then on! Could this novel - and some of his other literary excesses be an attempted move into cathartic anti-script? There is also the detail of Honey's broken nose. I found it hard to believe that a doctor could not have set it better than he did. Then there is her ambition to make enough money so that she can get her nose fixed and become a `call-girl'. This seems to be Fleming's logic - not hers. Why could she not want to study oceanography or become a tour guide or go into business for herself? The casual way this career idea is introduced does not stand up to examination. Here is a woman who was raped and felt so violated that she took her revenge by murdering her  attacker - who also broke her nose when she tried to resist him! It makes no sense and ignores the deeper damage that rape victims feel that she thinks that all she needs to do is fix the physical damage that the man had done to her and then happily take her place as a willing participant in the institutionalised rape she will find in the sex industry! People do make irrational decisions but this is too casual. It would have been ironic and worth exploring in a story where a woman indeed went down that route. This however implies that it was a conscious choice made out of childhood innocense - and of course sets Bond up as the man who rescues her from her own folly! The book is full of such cringe-worthy moments as this! 

The English novelist Kingsly Amis, in his improbably apologetic critique of his hero fails to see why Fleming really did not like women. He points to the affectionate little asides that pepper Fleming's description as if these somehow makes it alright to portray women in such a shallow way. It is fairly obvious that Fleming painted himself into a corner by not giving Bond a female sidekick when he sends him off to his `mysterious island' so he washes one up on to the beach like a piece of driftwood! Then he has to get rid of Quarrel so he has him wiped out by a flamethrower! This is what makes Dr No the most sexless of all the books. It is also perhaps the most revealing. There is an old tradition of this kind of fiction where the characters were exclusively male and the females were merely incidental. Was Fleming perhaps letting us know that he would rather not include women at all
