This is my first Jack Reacher novel and it will be my last. I had heard so many good things about this series that I held out hope that it would at least be tolerable. It isn't. The many positive reviews of this book are simply more evidence of the dumbing down of America generally and the dumbing down of mystery/thriller fiction specifically.

This story is boring, way too long and completely predictable. Here's a partial spoiler that I have to discuss. The story is predciated on a wife being unable to take her child, move to another state and file divorce proceedings in the second state. Childs believes this is illegal in the US despite the fact that it happens hundreds of time a day. A spouse who moves to another state has violated no law and is completely free to file for divorce in the new state. If you are aware of this, Childs' ignorance will grate on you for the remainder of the book.

Childs' concept of white/Hispanic race relations in the US is bizarre to say the least. If you have actually lived in areas of California, Texas, Arizona or New Mexico where whites and Hispanics freely mingle and often cannot even be identified as white or Hispanic, you will cringe at Childs' heavy handed, and incorrect, approach to this topic. Childs tries hard to be politically correct but he is so politically ignorant of US race relations that his approach simply annoys.

There are so many things wrong with Childs' writing in general that it's very difficult to know where to start. I'll start with the character of Jack Reacher. He is without class, conscience, heart or soul. There are innumerable examples of his thuggishness and lack of character but I'll show you one: In chapter 15 Reacher is talking to the mother in law of the woman he is trying to help. The mother in law has engaged in the horrible crime of disapproving of her son's wife and not being interested in her granddaughter. So how does Reacher deal with this elderly woman who has the temerity to dislike another human being? This is how:  "I'm going to come back down here and break your spine. I'm going to stand you up and snap it like a rotten twig." This is what Reacher says to an elderly woman who has committed no crime. If you think this is acceptable behavior for anyone, you are sick and twisted. If you think it is admirable behavior for a hero of a mystery novel, you are completely deranged, as is Reacher. If you voluntarily read books featuring this type of character, you need to learn something about character and morality.

The character of Reacher is completely simplistic and unrealistic. He's just a big guy who bullies his way through life because he is big. Despite the occasional insight that is needed to solve the crime, he shows no signs of intellect. Literary quotes are thrown out at random in odd situations, but there is no indication that Reacher ever read anything in his life nor has any interest in reading now. I get the feeling that Childs has a quote book on his desk that he pulls out when he thinks he needs to add some intellect to Reacher, but the quotes are usually not well fitted to the situation.

Reacher has no interpersonal skills. He hits on a lesbian in Echo Burning. He is apparently a loner because he was in the military. Why that should be, is not explained, nor is it logical. He apparently travels around from place to place because he did that in the military. Again, no rational explanation is established and it is unlikely one exists. Reacher has no hopes, no dreams, no wants, and no desires, other than the occasional desire to beat up old ladies and small guys. In short his character has no grounding in any type of reality.

As for his writing skills, Childs sits comfortably in the average range of contemporary mystery writers, and that is not a compliment. In this book he drones on endlessly about the heat. He drones on endlessly about the long drives in west Texas. You could die of boredom on those drives, or from reading this book. He spends way too much time explaining scenes that add nothing to the story line or the atmosphere. As one other reviewer has noted, if you were to leave out the phrase "Reacher said nothing" or variations thereof, you would lose a sizable portion of the book. Why does Reacher say nothing so often? Because he's an imbecile most likely. There certainly is no indication that he's thinking anything when he's refusing to talk. Childs could have given us insight into Reacher's thoughts but 90% of the time does not, most likely because there is nothing going on in Reacher's head.

For people looking for this type of mystery hero, I suggest you check out John McDonald's Travis McGee series. Aside from the fact that McDonald is a literary giant next to Lee Childs, the McGee stories are genuinely interesting and the mysteries genuinely challenging. Everything is not black and white in McGee's world, unlike the fantasy world Reacher lives in. As for McGee himself, he has the attributes of a real human being. He has a heart, a soul, and is genuinely bright. McGee is also a very big guy, but unlike Reacher, takes no joy in bullying people.
