Well in my opinion, there is no longer any doubt that some things appear to be flying in our skies, and some people have had some unusual experiences (mostly disturbing, but some apparrently enlightening), but the question is, is it all as it seems?  The fact of the matter is, various military branches from around the globe have real hardware that could easily fool us.  Holographic projections can and are used to place images within our skys (this is related to controversial theories surrounding the 911 events); there are devices that can manipulate brain waves and neuronal excitation to have people hallucinate any scenario; advanced, drug manipulated hypnotic techniques can control memories and behaviour; implants have been around for decades and have even gone mainstream now (Verichip).  I'm not saying that other lifeforms don't exist in the Universe (far from it), and perhaps there are a number of entities here on Earth carrying out agendas, but this idea that there are little, menacing Greys abducting us for various sinister reasons without immense COLLUSION seems suspect.  It smells of classic fear mongering that the elite love to push on us.  Historically, there's been the Barbarians, Huns, Mongols,  Pagans, Jews, Christians, Vikings, black Natives, Cannabals, red Natives, Mexicans, Germans, Nazis, Communists, now the Arabs and the next logical conclusion is some evil force off planet because they have used all the boogey men on Earth.  Even President Reagan set us up for this scenario in an infamous speech in the late 80's.  The fact is that with known technology (not including whatever they may have that has not been leaked), they could quite easily pull the hoax off.  Even genetic manipulation and cloning is much further advanced and PRACTICED (albeit "underground") than most people can fathom.  What has become another fact is the major extent to which the UFO community has been infiltrated and compromised, of which Strieber has been front and centre at various times.  My belief is that Strieber is part of this fear mongering campaign, sponsored by the elite and carried out by various military and government groups.  In this book, his "hard-evidence" is flimsey and suspicious.  For example, why wouldn't super advanced Aliens using implants design them such that they are entirely organic and of shapes that mimic human tissue (thus not showing up on any X-ray, MRI, CT, etc)?  And design them such that they quickly break down when removed from the body?  Surely, this would be child's play for Alien scientists?  Why no major discussion or mention of the human military, or NAZI connection with abductions?  There seems to be a growing number of victims who are recalling strange "fragments" of memories that are slipping through various memory covers.  Why are they mentioning cooperation of human doctors and nurses with the Greys?  Why are they mentioning swastikas and other known military insignias on uniforms?  Why are some speaking English, others German?  Why is there a connection with deep, underground bases and specifically Antartica?  These are things Strieber never mentions, which I find curious.  My point is, things are happening, but it has become nearly impossible to ascertain what, and Strieber's books seem to cloud the issues and possibly even advance certain agendas.      
