This is the first book by Shaara I have read. And, if his other works are like this, it is also the last.  

On the cover, J. Persico is quoted as saying Shaara makes "literature read like history and history read like literature."  He goes on to claim that Shaara brings the war to "pulsating life."  I have even read a review that claimed this book was better than Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front.  

I must have been reading a different book.  The first chapter, The Replacement, is a great short story.  After reading it, I had hight expectations for the book.  Unfortunately, it falls apart after that great beginning and it is a dull affair that completely lacks any sense of a coherent narrative from a literary point of view.  And, the history reads like an 8th grade textbook. 

His narrative style is unable to give life to people that actually lived.  They are flatly presented and there is no sense of really caring about what happens to them.  

After the dislocated short story of the first chapter, the book delves into a long-winded story of the flying aces, interspersed with summaries of historic events that do little more than ruin the flow of the story.  It frequently feels like the book is written for people who are unwilling to read a real history book.

Shaara doesn't even begin dealing with the trench warfare of the war until the 1918's, when the Americans arrive, focusing, as I noted before, primarily on the air war that occurred in the first years of the war. I should point out that the air war would be interesting reading in a book of its own.  Here, however, it seems more to reflect that the author did not deem the ground warfare fought by non-Americans worthy of a story. Or was too lazy to research the events enough to write about the ground war from the British or French perspective. 

And, I have no particularly problem with him focusing on the American perspective on the war, but then why bother with writing anything prior to our entry?  I suppose a smaller book doesn't sell as well.

For those interested in historical fiction, I would recommend Bernard Cornwall's work.  And, perhaps, Shaara can learn a bit from him
