I first want to say that Piper's passion for the supremacy of Christ is contagious. I have personally benefited from his ability to bring the church's focus to what matters most: The supremacy of Christ and the glory of God among the nations. 

However, I would like to express my disappointment with this book. I bought the book because I was very interested to hear how Piper would respond to the "hard sayings" of our Lord. I was very dismayed by his exposition and application of one particular demand of Jesus (Matt. 5:38-48/ Demands #28-34, 43,44). I feel that his failure to uphold what is absolutely essential to discipleship cannot be overlooked. I want to challenge Piper, as well as his avid readers and fans, to rethink their understanding of Jesus' "demand" to the church to love enemy/neighbor as he loved them. 

The reason I specify "the church" is very key indeed. You see... I understand what Piper was intending to say with his title "What Jesus Demands from the World." But I feel that this reflects his misunderstanding... or perhaps confusion with Jesus' demand to his FOLLOWERS to respond with the sacrificial "non-sense" love of God in every situation. It seems that he makes no distinction between the kingdoms of the world vs. the Kingdom of God. Are we not to call people out of the kingdoms of the world to which Satan manipulates and into the Kingdom of God which cannot be thwarted? 

Piper mixes much and in the end he only makes comfortable the conscience of the "American Christian." He attempts to point out the radical commands of Christ... then he makes his claims "natural" by confusing the call of the Christian and the purpose of the worldly kingdoms. Of course Jesus would never "demand" that someone like Pilate lay down his arms and "turn the other cheek." That's because Pilate was playing his role in the kingdoms of the world (Rom. 13:1-7). Pilate was not a disciple in the garden who pulled out his sword to wack at someone's head. But if he was a disciple and he had done this... he would have been scolded along with Peter. 

The same would apply to the awful emperor Nero. We never hear Peter or Paul rebuke Nero for not living like Christ. And they did not change their interpretations of Jesus' hard sayings because they saw that worldly governments could never abide by these commands. They were not confused to the point of mixing the role of the church and the role of the worldly kingdoms. Romans 12 describes the role of the church vs. the role of the worldly kingdoms in Rom. 13. Only those who know Christ are expected to walk as he did (1 Jn. 2:6). 

Jesus said the "world" will know we are his disciples by his non-sense love (Jn. 13:34-35). Not by our commitment to calvinism or our love for democracy. Human wisdom leads us to believe there are "personal" enemies and there are "mortal" enemies. Jesus said there are just enemies. How can we confuse this? The point is very clear. When Jesus said love your enemies... he meant we are not to forcefully resist them... and certainly NOT to kill them. Jesus said we are not to "resist" an evil person (Matt.5:39). In Greek... the word for resistance is speaking of armed revolt or defense. We are not at a loss to understand how we apply this Kingdom principle. Jesus modeled it for us. When we make exceptions to this kind of love or hint at other "love acts"... we mock our Lord's example. I am afraid Piper said a lot of good to end up saying nothing at all.

I am not talking about "pacifism." I am not talking about living up in the hills somewhere or joining an Amish community in the secluded country side of Pennsylvania. I'm also not talking about the "Third Way" of a Mr. Walter Wink who presents Jesus' ways of love like those of Ghandi or the promiscuous civil rights leader Martin Luther King. I am talking about letting Christ live his life through us in every situation while being motivated by love of God and man! I wouldn't even call it "non-resistance." I would call it resisting with Christ's love that makes no sense to the world... yet... it is overcoming evil and confounding those who mean us harm. (For we know this love does no harm to its neighbor according to Rom. 13:10) Now that... is truly radical! 

We must take more seriously Christ's person and work. This is absolutely essential to our faith. When we ignore kingdom principles (or change them) we cease to be in the world and establish ourselves as permanant citizens. At this point...we lose our distinct identity and we deny our true citizenship (Phil. 3:20). The church should have no fear of taking Jesus "more absolutely" than he intended (p.238). Quiet honestly, how do you get more absolute in love than in the example of Christ himself? And we are called to do the same.

Finally, I would like to comment on Piper's usage of "allegiance." We do not share an allegiance in "two directions" (p.325.) Jesus never said anything of the kind. Is Jesus condoning pledging allegiance to some other King or power? By no means! Submission and support do not mean the same. We understand our relationship to the world around us by our allegiance to Christ alone! I'm so tired of Christians using "give to Caesar what is Caesar's" as if it gives them a right of passage into anything and everything political. Especially in this "Christian nation."

Respectfully I ask, "Mr. Piper, do you think your definition of love is as radical as Christ's?" We should follow the love acts of Christ. Perhaps, then we will see the foolishness and absolute absurdity in suggesting that there are "other love acts."

Piper can tell people the right way to live is to love like Christ. That he did very well throughout most of his book. But when we say there are exceptions or even hint at that... we are no different than any other religion in this world that offers nice little adages and a set of morals to live by. As with Laodicea, soon the day of comfort will be over. "Christians" will then be given the opportunity to join with the kingdoms of the world forever in hell or suffer with Christ and enjoy victory forever in the Kingdom. 

My readings of the book of Revelation confirm my vision as being biblically sound. Let the separating of the sheep from the goats begin. May all who belong to Christ come out of the great harlot who has seduced his bride with maddening wine (Rev. 18)!
