This book is one long whine. While I always enjoyed Bob Colacello's column in "Interview", this book, completed after Andys death (naturally), is a case of someone who, while they've outgrown their job, resents the fact that they're still there. Colacello started out worshipping Warhol, then, as often happens, began to feel he wasn't getting quite the recognition he deserved, at the same time forgetting why anyone knew who he was in the first place. Maybe the label "disgruntled employee" is too pat. But, for all his acknowledged ability to manipulate people to do things for him, it was Andy who retained the fame that many around him coveted.  Bob C. sounds like any employee of any company who complains incessently about how his boss doesn't appreciate him. The little man who feels he'll make a better big man than the big man himself, but, remains in the shadows, un-acknowledged. Wanna-be's can get ugly, but his remarks against Warhol, while hardly slanderous, are more of the nit-picking variety, revealing fairly transparent resentments right below the surface. While there are certainly two sides to every story, I always find it fairly loathsome when someone decides to cry of the injustices against them by one who can no longer reply to the accusations. Especially when said injustices are so trivial, but manage to make up a book the size of Gone With The Wind , with money, OF COURSE, just being an afterthought to the cathartic process. I also found the title, "Holy Terror", a trifle exaggerated, but I guess the alternative title of maybe "Complex Famous Artist With Contradictory Personality Flaws Just Like Everyone Else" would have been too long, not to mention that it probably would have sold less books. I certainly would'nt want my eulogy to be an exposed inventory of all the products I have in my bathroom (or BEDROOM!!), yet, the only thing Colacello can conclude his memoir with is a list of the contents of Warhols bathroom beauty products,(if he detested Andy so much, what was he doing in his bathroom, after his death??) patronizingly suggesting that these were the props that poor, shallow Andy needed daily to face the world. (Imagine image-obsessed America WITHOUT all our props...YIKES!!!)This book says more about Colacello (if anyone cared) than it ever could about Andy. If you want a perhaps more balanced view of that time period and its events, read "The Andy Warhol Diaries."  ANDYS honesty might surprise you
