I have read this book (and its companion volume) a couple of times, and to be honest I am not a fan.  Many of Jan Fennell's suggestions are useful, but none are original. 

Ms Fennell's method is based on the idea of using the non-violent language of the wolf pack to put your dog in his rightful subordinate place, and therefore gain his understanding and cooperation.  Alpha wolves eat first - so Ms Fennell has the dog owner eat dinner before his dog.  Alpha wolves take the pack out hunting - so we are bid to walk our dogs daily.  Alpha wolves aren't demonstrative - so we are told to ignore our dogs for five minutes each time we arrive home from work.

These suggestions are sensible, but they are hardly revolutionary.  Maintaining dominant status by behaving like an "alpha" wolf is a technique that has been championed by many other authors - the only difference is that Ms Fennell gives this process the cutesy name of "Amichien bonding".  The technique is a good one for restoring a relationship with a dog that has been spoiled or confused in the past by weak or misinformed owners. Its success lies not only in the owner mimicking canine behaviour, but also in the institution of house rules and a predictable daily routine for the dog.  

So what is wrong with this book?  The first fatal flaw is the unrealistic simplicity of the method.  Ms Fennell seems to believe that all canine behavioural problems are caused by the dog wishing to be alpha.  It is certainly true that a dog with a misplaced sense of his own importance will probably become a problem dog.  However, dogs can also behave badly for a plethora of other reasons - poor training, learned fear, boredom, health issues, confusion and inherent high prey drive, to name just a few.  Ms Fennell's insistence that all canine problems are dominance problems that can be cured by "Amichien bonding" is unfortunately just not realistic.   
  
For a professional dog trainer, Ms Fennel also displays a rather disturbing lack of knowledge about several dog breeds.  At one point she states that it may be impossible to fully train Bull Terriers "and dogs of this type" due to their inherent "savage natures"!  One gets the impression that she has been unable to train this type of dog herself and holds a grudge about it.  Whatever the reason, I find it somewhat disingenuous of her to ignore the fact that other trainers have managed to train these breeds to very high standards, and blame her own failure to do so on the dogs instead of on her own methods.

In short?  If you know very little about dog behaviour and have a mildly pushy dog, then this book isn't a bad buy.  Certainly, applying the "Amichien bonding" advice won't hurt.  It is the same type of programme as recommended by dog behaviourists the world over (you can get much of the same information for free on the internet, from Shirley Chong's website for example).  

However, Ms Fennell's book is not a comprehensive guide to solving every dog's problems.  If your dog has moderate to serious behavioural problems, save your money and book a consultation with a professional behaviourist.  Your dog will thank you for it.


