If you are looking for a serious discussion of 1,000 classic films, perhaps as a starting point for your own voyage of discovery, this book is a total waste of money. Spend your money on "1001 Films You Must See Before You Die" and Roger Ebert's Great Movies series instead.

Here are some of the reasons why I do not like this book:

1--The reviews begin in 1931, which means that the book completely ignores the silent era. No book pretending to discuss the 1,000 greatest movies ever made can ignore that era. How can you ignore the best work of Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, and Harold Lloyd? How can you ignore the work of David Wark Griffith, such as "Birth of a Nation" and "Intolerance"? How can you ignore Eisenstein's "Battleship Potemkin" or Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan Of Arc," which many would rank among the 10 greatest films of all time?

2--The book covers only films that were reviewed in the New York Times. Thus it is limited in its scope. It ignores a large body of great films that were not reviewed in the Times for whatever reason.

3--The reviews were all written under deadline pressure, with little time for reflection and perspective. In the days before television, when the newspaper business was very competitive, many large papers published multiple editions each day, and deadline pressure was very tight. I was a newspaper reporter in my early days, and I know what it was like.

In addition, these reviews were written on typewriters, not computers. There was little opportunity for revision. The way that the page came out of your typewriter the first time around was the way that the review appeared in print.

It's only fair to point out that many of today's newspaper-based film critics, such as Roger Ebert, are able to write thoughtful reviews under deadline pressure. However, I suspect that they have more resources available to them, and more options as well, than the critics who wrote most of the reviews in this book.

The bottom line is that in most cases, the thoughtfulness and reflection are not there. Most of the reviews seem to be geared toward answering the reader's simple question, "Is the movie any good?" The reviews are more akin to Ebert and Roeper's "thumbs up" and "thumbs down" television reviews than to the far more thoughtful ones that Ebert writes for his newspaper. Any serious discussion of 1,000 great films deserves much better than that.
