The premise behind this book is that by following the techniques advocated by the "Fools," you can pick stocks on your own and do better than the market as a whole and better than most professional mutual fund managers.

Think about it.  If this premise were true, then most of the professional mutual fund managers would be out of a job, replaced by anyone that could follow the "Fools" advice.

The book is principally a big advertisement for the Motley Fool's web-site (www.fool.com) and much of the content it references isn't even there any more.

For instance, the book references real world stock portfolios called the Rule-Breaker and Rule-Maker which you can supposedly see and follow for free on their web-site.  If you search google, you'll find a page on their web-site announcing that both have been discontinued.  I'm guessing it wasn't because of their stellar performance.  Fortunately, you can still *buy* the Motley Fool Rule Breakers Newsletter for $199.00 per year.  Whew!

The book also announces the creation of a new stock index, which the book calls the "NOW 50," but which the Fools renamed "Fool 50" after the book was published.  Today, if you go www.fool.com's stock index section, you'll find no reference to the index.  You can still find links to the old pages if you search google (fool.com "fool 50"), but not if you search on fool.com.  An index that lasted no more than 3 years!  Amazing!

Perhaps the best critique of the Fools is in Investing for Dummies (Fourth Edition) on pages 382-383:  "[O]nly one of their seven portfolios has actually performed better than the market averages--two of their portfolios were shuttered after poor performance (one of which plunged 50 percent during its short six-month existence)."  Fools indeed!

By the way:  "Investing for Dummies" is a great book full of sound investment advice.  Make sure you get the latest editions (the Fourth was just released and the Third is still on many store shelves) The companion title "Personal Finance for Dummies" is also full of advice worth hundreds of times its cover price.
