		This amusing exercise in literary invention and clever psycho-babble portrays Jefferson as the original neocon who had the wisdom and foresight to establish useful precedents for today's neoconservatives.

	Hitchens, a prominent neocon flack who is clearly obsessed with sex and race, offers a confusing portrait of Jefferson that clearly reflects the artist more than the subject.  Think of a Picasso painting;  the technique would be instantly recognized even if the subject is a mystery.  Hitchens devotes almost eight pages to Jefferson's relationship with Sally Hemings.  Why?  He doesn't offer a shred of evidence that Hemings contributed anything to the historical accomplishments of Jefferson, except in the form of several children who duly received special dispensation from Jefferson.  

	But he goes into great speculation about how the Declaration of Independence is based on Saxon/German principles transplanted to America.  My, my, what an original reason for the American War of Independence.  It all originates in ancient Germanic feuds between Hanover (King George's ancestors) and Saxony.  Take that!!  all you Angles, Jutes, Normams, Welsh, Celts, Norwegians, Danes and other assorted invaders, raiders, traders and natives who made The Glorious Revolution of 1688.

	His concludes "history is a tragedy and not a morality tale."  Wrong.  History is the uneven progress of humans toward personal freedom, a process magnificently exemplified by Jefferson who used the principles and often the words of the Glorious Revolution to articulate a major leap forward in democracy.  Instead, this book is an example of propaganda intended to make basic values sound like the sole property of one specific faction, and in this case it's a masterful hijack of the Jefferson legend for the neocon cause.

	Hitchens is an often acerbic and perceptive critic of fuzzy logic and hypocrisy;  but, this book is a case of a man who refuses to see but nonetheless wants to lead the blind by attempting to cram history into the folly of modern neocon thought.  History is not a series of events frozen in the stone statues of dead heroes, which is the essence of neocon nonsense;  it is an alive and evolving process as fully complex and unpredictable as any chaos in nature.

	It's a feeble effort by an often brilliant and perceptive analyst of American thought and attitude.  His folly began with his claim the American Revolution "was thus emphatically for export".  Oh?  George Washington thought the opposite, that others were welcome to copy but it was not to be force fed to anyone.  It's Republicans, since the 1860s, who believe the American Revolution is emphatically for export and thus deserves to be cannon blasted into policies of less enlightened nations.

	In his introduction, Hitchens recognizes everything in life contains contradictions or paradoxes and adds, "Jefferson was a contradiction, and this will be found at every step of the narrative that goes to make up his life."  

	True enough.  But there are also great principles in life, and Jefferson is one of the rare individuals in history who recognized and advanced the great principle of personal freedom.  In today's clash of civilisations that idea is worth understanding;  unfortunately, Hitchens becomes so wrapped up in the contradictions of Jefferson's sex life that he loses sight of Jefferson's crowning achievement.

	It makes the book interesting but irrelevant.



