This book attempts to expose the hidden history of the "Good War" however it fails to do this in multiple ways. First it pretends to present new data, yet most of the information that Mickey Z uses has been in the public domain for 20-30 years, anybody with access to a public library could have read about it.

Instead of getting rid of the myths he is guilt of repeating them instead whenever they agree with his political angle. His first point is that people think that America entered the war to stop the Holocaust, yet I have never heard anybody suggest this, people think America entered the war because of Pearl Harbor.

Talking of Pearl Harbor, he repeats the myth that the US knew that the attack was about to happen without explaining why? He tries to use an incident 4 years earlier in China to explain that the attack was going to happen yet does not address the view of the US military at the time that Pearl would only be attacked after the Philippines and/or Hong Kong.

Which brings up an important point, Mickey uses a considerable amount of information that was not available to the decision makers of the day to criticise their choices. They knew they were going up against the Japanese empire someday but not when or where.

Another piece of new information that he spends some pages on is that during the war that US did some things to Asian us citizens that to modern eyes are appalling yet he does not say why it was out of context for the time and how this is new information? Taking decisions taken many years ago and critising them on the basis of current morality is not the sign of a good historian.

Mickey also lets his arguments wander about the time line, it's supposed to be 1939-1945 yet actually his essays cover 1919 to the current time. He repeats the old myths about Dresden, they only made china dolls etc etc etc, and here he finally has his chance to introduce new data, the Dresden city records for the era became open for the first time after the fall of the Berlin wall. But he doesn't he just repeats the old myths '100,000" dead, nobody knows etc.  

Later he repeats the myth that 900,000 died in US POW camps, yet that figures from one source (Bacque) have been compressively shown to be false.

This is just the myths in the first half of the book; the second half is just more of the same. Strangely this book tends to support the idea that the war was a "good war' by showing that though many "bad' things happened they were reasonable within the context of a global war. Some GI's raped, some killed prisoners but in general neither of these things happened. 

So the book fails in its aim, the back cover says Mickey Z is a self-educated historian, on the basis of this book, he has a long way to go before he is a good self-educated historian
