This book is not at all definitive. DON'T TELL MAMA from Viking or FROM THE MARGIN from Purdue U Press are better represenations of the top Italian American authors. Authors like Daniela Gioseffi, Ben Morreale, Gioia Timpanelli or Maria Mazziotti belong here more than some who are represented. And, Tonelli, a jerk about the Mafia stereotype and a fan of the horrible defamatory Sopranos ought to be tarred and feathered and ousted from his own community for representing the over glut of Mafia stories perpetuated by a myth that refuses to recognize the most important fact about Italian American culture; There is no more percentage of organized crime among Italian Americans than any other ethnic group. less. than .01 % of Italian Americans are involved in organized crime and there is no big international Mafia cartel of Italians involved in crime. That was a myth perpetuated by certain powers to make a scape goat for syndicated crime. The S &amp; L scandal of white collar crime on Wall St. and the Enron, Anderson debacle are still the greatest crimes of theivery committed in the history of the world. Hollywood and television have deliberately tried to scapegoat Italians to keep the eye off the real international criminals, and Tonelli should know better than to represent this theme at all. He is a fool for falling for this social engineering and it mars his book horribly, along with the fact that he leaves some of the best writers of all out. Other books on this subject have done a better job, and how can the reviewer from BOOK LIST get away with such nonsense, by saying the culture that produced Michaelangelo, which is the mainland Italian culture, did not produce a Shakespeare? Where has that reader been that he hasn't heard of Dante, the predated, rival of Shakespeare and the great world writer of Italian literature and culture--a different matter than Italian American immigrant culture. Tonelli and his misguided reveiwers show their ignorance. though Tonelli does well to include Mario Puzo's THE FORTUNATE PILGRIM mistitled in the first media review above. It is Puzo's best and truest book --much better than The Godfather, according to Puzo and all his literary critics, too. So read it instead while we send Tonelli back to the drawing boards to do a better job of representing his culture.  He's an upstart who really doesn't know how to edit a good book on his subject. And his professional reviewers at top make  factual mistakes and don't really know the subject well enough to write a true reveiw
