I am embarrased to say it, but I've read this book at least 10 times.  The nightmare began some 8 years ago when at the urging of a "friend" I entered rehab for what would become the first of many such "treatments". The indoctrination process began immediately. "The first 163 pages will save your ..." was just one of the things I was told by some washed up alcoholic who once resorted to drinking Sterno while living homeless in some ravine.  It never stopped. Go to enough AA meetings and you'll hear the same things over and over and over...you get the idea. How quickly we (newcomers) were brainwashed. For me there was always an uneasy feeling. It was creepy to hear those who were only days out of rehab sound off parroting the same sentiments and cliches of their sponsors. An ominous warning I should have paid attention to.  
Years later I realize that I was one of the unfortunate souls that was swept away into a religious cult with the help of counselors, social workers, 12 steppers and even doctors. I became sicker, despondent and my drinking and using worsened.  My sanity was replaced with the belief that I was powerless and my only hope was within "the Program". There's a good reason they call it your "Program". I became a 12 step automaton immersing myself deeper into the religiousity of AA with each successive relapse. I did it all. A meeting every day, working the steps, attending step studies, service work, conventions, retreats...you name it-I did it. I surrendered common sense and reason and followed the direction of 12 step fruitcakes.
If you are newly sober and looking for help look elsewhere. This book is a waste of time and may even be hazardous to your health. If it's a support group you think you need go to a Life Ring meeting or better yet stay home and read Rational Recovery or one of Ellis' books. Do not go to  12 step meetings. I haven't been to an AA meeting in close to 2 years and I am finally sober and happy. Go figure.
Stay away from 12 steppers. It took me years to come to this realization and that is this - Members of Alcoholics Anonymous are more concerned with AA than they are with helping people stay sober. Just take a look at the numbers. The vast majority of recovered addicts/alcoholics recover without 12 step involvement. AA and its evil spawn NA have hurt more people than they have helped.
