   In the world of songwriting, there are artists and craftsmen. The artist will produce for you a work of originality that no one else has ever done quite the same way before, that will touch you in some unique way and that will stay with you. The craftsman will give you a serviceable reproduction of something but it will lack anything special and will have the lifespan of a fruit fly. Jason Blume is a craftsman. He makes his living by studying "the market" and basically rewriting other people's songs. Ideas are difficult things. Not everyone has great ideas, so some take the road Jason Blume has taken. He's apparently feeding his family by being a craftsman, so there's nothing wrong with that. We need bricklayers as much as we need architects. I'm just letting you know what you're getting into here. If you want to learn how to design a beautiful building, you don't study with the bricklayer. This guy ain't no talented songwriter but he is living proof that you apparently don't have to have talent to make money in the music biz these days. I'm sure that gives hope to a lot of untalented people, which is probably why this book has gotten such good reviews. He's strictly a bubblegum pop writer, so if that's the direction you want to go in, maybe you'll get something out of this book. Just remember that bubblegum loses its flavor really fast. If you're really serious about this, if it's something that burns within you and you want a real career as a songwriter, you should shop around for a better book. This one will only make you feel that you're in the wrong business.
   This book is littered with quotes from music biz insiders that are far more insightful than anything Jason Blume has to say. And the interesting thing is, they mostly contradict his thoughts about what make a great song and a great songwriter. For example, here's what one producer had to say: 

"The great writers of this century are all originals. You will find that the vast majority of their work was not 'commercial' until after it was successful."

 Contrast that with Jason Blume's advice:  you'll get nowhere unless you learn to mimic what's already successful. Time and again, musicians, producers and execs are quoted in the book as saying you need to be yourself and be original. It's hard to understand what these quotes are doing in this book because Jason Blume has no idea what constitutes originality and probably doesn't want to know because he makes his living by writing sound-alike junk that is designed to appeal to the lowest common demoninator and to copy the other crap that's on the radio. I laughed out loud when I read this but here are some lyrics that Jason Blume, believe it or not, describes as "a completely new approach" and "truly novel":

It's getting hot in herre
So take off all your clothes

I'm not kidding! He thinks this is great, fresh, original songwriting! If this is your idea of brilliant lyrics, I feel sorry for you. He gives lip service to "originality" but then shows his hand with the examples of what he thinks constitutes the good stuff. In another example, he pats himself on the back for having the brilliant idea of writing a "dear diary" song for Britney Spears. He actually thinks that's an original idea that's never been done before! And he doesn't even pull it off well. It's typical junk pop lyrics that only a 13 year old with her first crush could possibly be moved by. Blume comes across as someone who would gladly jump on any musical bandwagon that comes along. He's never met a hit song he didn't like because if it's a hit, it must be good. He's the happy lap dog of a cynical system that is destroying the music business and making it hard for real talent to be heard. If that sounds ridiculous to you, you're either: a) not old enough to remember when the music/radio business was controlled by the demands of the audience to hear good music, not by greedy, shortsighted corporations who care more about their shareholders than their audience, b) you just have terrible taste in music and you LIKE what you hear on the radio, or c) you don't really care about music, just money. It's sad that there are people (just read these reviews) who think they can read a book like this and follow its advice all the way to fame and riches. Forget about it. In fact, I wonder how well Jason Blume is doing now that Britney and boy bands are over. That's probably why he's writing books and teaching classes now.
   I gave this book two stars because there is some useful information about the way things work in the music business today. If you still want to get involved with it after reading this, good luck to you
