Before you buy this book or any of the videos please be aware that although there is a small group of Harb fanatics, these books and videos preach a method of learning to ski which is out of the mainstream of current modern skiing. 

Harb's competition is of course the PSIA (Professional Ski Instructors of America) If you go to any Ski Area, the vast majority of Instructors will be PSIA members and trained in modern skiing technique as taught by the PSIA. The techniques taught by PSIA represent the very best ideas and approaches that the tens of thousands of PSIA ski instuctors have found and developed. PSIA will gladly explore and incorporate any ideas that work. On the other hand, in order to justify why people should spend money on his books, videos, and clinics, Harb needs to present 'new' or 'different' techniques from what is taught by PSIA - he needs to implicitly criticize the PSIA and its methods and claim his system is superior. But think about it, you have a national organization in PSIA with tens of thousands of members all working to develop the best methods for learning to ski - and then you have Harb claiming they are all wrong and he is right. Sure. 

In an effort to be unique, many of the 'techniques' that Harb puts forwards are actually quite unsound. For example, Harb recommends lifting the inside ski and tipping it to initiate turns. In general you are better off keeping both skis on the ground, lifting one ski can put you off balance and reduces your stability. Lifting one ski can also cause you to shift your weight up hill to compensate and that is exactly what you do not want to be doing at turn initiation. Lifting the inside ski is a 'gimmick' and an unsound one at that. If doing it 'seems' to help your skiing, it is probably because there are other problems with your alighnment or technique and lifting the inside ski 'compensates' for those issues. Of course, instead of compensation one would be better off fixing the cause of the problem and becoming a more sound skier. 

If you want my advice, if you are still learning to ski don't bother with Harb and his PTMS system. If you are already an expert you may find an idea here or there that you can play with, but I wouldn't base my basic skiing style on Harb's gimmicks. 

A much better book on Skiing is Mark Ellings "The Expert Skier." Elling teaches accepted modern skiing techiniques that are sound and effective. 

I expect the Harb Fanatics will attack this review, but don't buy their hype
