Have you heard?  Many Christians are seeking authentic Christian church life.  And they are leaving the institutional church (i.e. the religious buildings, empty pagan rituals, professional staff members, etc.) to experience it!  

This I applaud.  Many Christians would do well to read "Pagan Christianity" by Frank Viola.  The institutional church is not the model given to us by the apostles.  And please know... I grew up a Southern Baptist and was on the ministerial staff for 6 years.  This conclusion was not all that easy to embrace.  However, I did discover it to be true.  Most truth loving people recognize the institutional church doesn't bring the results we see in the book of Acts. (e.g. read "Church Planting Movements" by David Garrison, published by the International Mission Board)  Yet, many are not willing to leave the comfortable confines of the man-centered institution to discover real ekklesia.

So... why did I rate this book so poorly if I am a part of a "house church" myself?  Because this book dishes out church in homes like it was fast-food!  Tony and Felicity Dale seem like wonderful people who have seen some great things happen in homes, but it would seem their method of starting churches is not founded in the N.T.

First, they use a proof-text (Matt.18:20) to establish the existence of a church.  A true church is a group of believers in a particular locality who have joined together in community for the purpose of gathering around Jesus Christ. (e.g. read "The Normal Christian Church Life") 
A church is not just getting a couple of Christians together and doing a bible study or singing some songs. This idea is a really popular strand of "house church" that has many rushing out prematurely to do this.  These people have no real solid foundation and knowledge of the roles and workings of an apostle(church planter), prophet, pastor/teacher, etc.  In chapter 10 "IT'S OK TO START A CHURCH," the Dales encourage you to nonchalantly go out and find someone who will allow Christians to meet in their home and walla!  You will have a "house church".  Question: is this the model in Acts?  Go read it.

The Dales even admit from their experience that the life of many a "house church" does not last very long.  Why?? I believe it is because "Simply Church" is so simple it is not biblical.  If you believe that the church gathering in homes apart from the religious systems of man is what Christ and the apostles intended, then you must believe there is an order to things.  (e.g. Eph. 4:11)  

However, if you believe church is a "cell group" or some other kind of alternative fellowship to the insitutional church... I imagine you can do whatever you want.  And many do.  Unfortunately, these "house churches" usually do not last.  Why would you want to trade one wrong practice (the institutional church) for another (house church as alternative)?  It is not an alternative.  It is the model given by the apostles to the community of saints.  We must be careful we do not trade one man-centered institution that meets in a building for another man-centered instituion that meets in a home!

Remember-- Real Christian church life comes by gathering around Jesus Christ in the order of the New Testament.  T. Austin Sparks puts it this way, "The church is measured by Christ: more Christ, more church; less Christ, less church."  The simplicity is found in gathering around Christ with a New Testament understanding of who we are and how we are to function within a local community of believers.  A biblical "New Testament" church comes about by a group of believers gathering around Christ the Head of the body.  

The journey that you embark on in a true church... I believe can be represented in a picture.  It is a picture of believers hand-in-hand circled around the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords.  This community is singing, encouraging, rebuking, correcting, and edifying for the worship of the one in the center:  Jesus Christ, the lamb who was slain! 
Don't get hung up on mimicking the "first-century style" of church... be consumed with Christ!  Place him in the center.  In time... you will discover your church life is authentic.

I highly recommend you read the writings of Frank Viola if you are interested in gathering around Jesus and experiencing the freedom of the first-century church.  His book set is very helpful for those who seek to model Christianity in Acts.  He references his claims to Scripture.

Frank Viola's set:
1. "Rethinking the Wineskin: The Practice of the N.T. Church"
2. "Who is Your Covering: A Fresh Look at Leadership, Authority, & Accountabiltiy"
3. "Pagan Christianity: The Origins of Our Modern Church Practices"
4. "SO YOU WANT TO START A HOUSE CHURCH?: First-Century Styled Church Planting For Today"
5. "From Nazareth to Patmos: The Saga of the N.T. Church"

I also recommend reading:
"Paul's Idea of Community: The Early House Churches in their Cultural Setting" by Robert Banks
"The Normal Christian Church Life" by Watchman Nee
"Life Together: The Classic Exploration of Faith in Community" by Dietrich Bonhoeffer
"God's Ultimate Passion" by Frank Viola
"The Untold Story of the New Testament Church" by Frank Viola
* "The Release of the Spirit" by Watchman Nee
