I had been looking forward to reading this book. First of all, I do believe that the HSP trait is a distinguishable trait. I myself have started to discover and do some research into the subject. I have no doubt that Dr. Elaine Aron is an HSP herself and her book has helped many. Maybe I was born too late or something or just my natural tendency to not put too much value into self-help books in general. Maybe it's a GenX thing, I don't know... but I think the root of it may be my general disdain for the psych "establishment" as it exists right now. They have pretentions of "open mindedness" but I really do believe a great majority of them have this "happy psychologically well-rounded medium" that they ALL seem to want to drive people toward, regardless of how many paths there are up that mountain to get to that point. I fear Ms. Aron, with her PhD credentials, has fallen into this trap of not being able to think outside the "psych box", so to speak. My biggest complaints about this book are: 
1. her dismissal of the word "shy" and "shyness in general". (see below)
2. her over-insistance on psychotherapy as the cure of everything. 
3, her over-reliance on childhood experiences as the ultimate factor in just about everything related to HSPness. A side note to this complaint is she seems to think childhood experience is at one of two extremes: either blissfully wonderful and magical in every way or horribly dysfunctional and wracked with trauma and just plain awful in every which way (of course requiring years of psychotherapy to get over!--sorry, I can't help being sarcastic!). I would think that most people's childhoods, whether they are HSP or not, would fall somewhere in middle, don't you think? That would be where mine falls. 
4. Generational and socioeconomic complaints: This book, like many other self-help books of this type seem always geared toward overly-affluent suburban Baby Boomers. As a struggling GenXer male who hasn't had a six-figure income to escape from and find out that life is more important than making money, (sorry, sarcasm is too ingrained...it's a GenX thing!)I just feel so disconnected to this type of thinking that prevails in most self-help books of this type (which is why I mostly avoid them!) Aren't there HSPs who AREN'T age 45-60 females from New York or San Francisco?(where this author divides her time) out there who have a perspective to say? (Hmmm, maybe I should write it myself!)

I'll address these complaints briefly in depth. As someone who has both been called "shy" and have called myself that for as long as I can remember, I have no problem with the label. Granted, we should not let our labels BECOME us, but if there's something that fits and is not derogatory, why not? Frankly, what's wrong with "shy", Ms. Aron? I respect your view on it, but I disagree. I don't think "shy" is an inherently negative description. I'm mystified as to why you think every introvert should shed it. 

I guess I wish this book had been written by an HSP layperson instead of a clinical psychotherapist who is stuck inside the box of that school of thought. That would make it seem more like it was written by a friend and not a shrink who has to keep their occupational distance from you. This is a highly emotional (and sensitive!) subject for us HSPers, so I dunno...maybe my response is just a natural reaction of my type. Who knows? Psychology is an inexact science to begin with, anyway.

So basically, it was a frustrating disappointment to read this book. I'm giving it two stars only because it at least was groundbreaking in it was apparently the first book to try to identify and distiguish this specific trait. It deserves credit for that at least. 
