Harvey Pekar, until recently, has lived a double life.

By day, he worked as a file clerk in a V.A. hospital. By night, he would write comic book stories, most dealing with events from his own life. These scripts were brought to life by other artists to become "American Splendor", the title Mr. Pekar has been writing and publising since 1976. It was adapted into a successful film in 2003. 

Mr. Pekar wrote "The Quitter", a chronicle of his early years, as a way to thank artist Dean Haspiel for introducing him to the film's producers. While Haspial is not the ideal pairing for Pekar's writing, his work is a strong, clear accompaniment. Haspiel's cover design clearly evokes the imagery of Will Eisner, one of the medium's masters. This, coupled with Pekar's reputation for consistently strong writing, is enough to raise expectations.

Considering the fact that Mr. Pekar has been writing about himself for thirty years, there's a suprising amount of new material on his Cleveland childhood and adolescence. We see the beginnings of personality disorders that have plagued him all his life - anxiety attacks and compulsive behavior eroding his attempts to function happily in school, at work, or at home with his family. He felt trapped in his workaday life, but recoiled from any interest in which he couldn't immediately excel. Even with these obstacles, Mr. Pekar begins to find his voice as a jazz critic, connect with others in his neighborhood, as well as enter into a relationship.

Since it isn't his wife Joyce Brabner, the reader expects a depiction of the relationship and how it breaks down. Instead, there's an abrupt segue into familiar territory - his friendship with comic legend Robert Crumb, the evolution of "American Splendor", culminating in the film version. There's a brief coda that shows how some of his early demons still inform his life, but we never discover what happened with his first serious girlfriend, or much connecting material that helps pull the two parts of the book together. It's a big disappointment.

Newcomers to Mr. Pekar's work will enjoy his trademark combination of eloquence and candor, but for longtime Pekar fans, I can't recommend it
