"Journey to the Land of No" is a first-person memoir of a Jewish girl growing up in Iran during the Revolution.  The book describes what her life and the life of her family was like before and after this cataclysmic event.

Having developed an unaccountable interest in the Iranian Revolution during the past year, I have read perhaps a dozen books about this subject.

Hakakian's book, while not bad, would have to be toward the bottom of the list of books you should read about this subject.  It just didn't grab me.

And certainly there has been no shortage of books written by women who lived in Iran during the Revolution and have since escaped.  But if you're only going to read one or two, there is much better fare out there.  "Reading Lolita in Tehran" is searing and unforgettable, and the graphic novel "Persepolis" is simply excoriating.  This latter would be at the top of said list.

Yeah, the competition is pretty stiff these days.  The bar for writing an "I'm an Iranian exile and here's why"-type book has been set incredibly high by so much good stuff out there now, and Hakakian's effort doesn't quite measure up.

Anyhow.  Compared to harrowing books like those, Hakakian's story is -- dare I say it? -- ho-hum.  Occasionally it is tenderly written, but I left the book feeling that she had little to say, and because, at least compared to other authors writing about the same subject, little remarkable happened to her.

What is most regrettable about the book, I suppose, is that Hakakian's Jewishness is almost incidental to her tale.  This is sad.  She certainly mentions that she was Jewish, and this does form the cornerstone for a few events in the story, but basically what happens to her and her family could have happened to pretty much any Iranian during that time.

And this is regrettable because the Jewish angle was the one really original thing this book had going for it.  And the author, I must aver, failed to really explore it or make it come alive.

In fact, so forgettable is the whole outing that, a few weeks after having read this book, I am unable to recall a single incident from it
