Gish recently retired, so let's take one last look at one of his most popular books, Evolution? The Fossils Say No! (ETFSN).  

Throughout his creationist career, Gish was a prime example of the "lying for Jesus" strategy.   ETFSN contains many examples of Gish's legendary dishonesty.  

Let's start with Gish's ancient quotes and references.  ETFSN, copyright 1995, has over 75 citations and/or quotations from 1970 or earlier!  That's pathetic.  

It also calls a 31-year old study on radiometric dating "recent."  That's blatantly dishonest.  

In debates in the '70s and `80s, Gish claimed that the geologic column is based on the assumption of evolution, but in 1982 Chris McGowan challenged him with a geology book written before Darwin had even been born, showing essentially the same geologic column used today.  Faced with this evidence, Gish admitted his error and withdrew the argument.  So, that seems reasonable.  Gish made an innocent mistake, admitted the error, and withdrew the argument.  End of story, right?  Not quite.  Despite having admitted that the argument was wrong, Gish continued using it in subsequent debates and included it again in ETFSN!  That's contemptible.

Gish also makes numerous mistakes.  For example, he insists that "fully functional" anatomical features, like feathers and wings, can't evolve step by step, and in fact would be completely useless in less than "fully functional" form.  But recent fossil discoveries show ancient dinosaurs with very primitive feathers, little more than fuzzy hairs.  Later there are dinosaurs with fluffy, not aerodynamic, feathers.  Only much later do we finally find fully aerodynamic feathers on reptilian-looking birds.  So fossils actually say YES to evolution!  

Wings can exist in less than "fully functional" form, too.  Richard Dawkins points out that some frogs use webbed feet for gliding, tree-snakes with flattened bodies can maneuver through the air, and some squirrels have flaps along their bodies for gliding.  Not only are animals with half a wing common in nature, so are animals with a third of a wing, a fourth of a wing, or even less!  

But even more critical than his many mistakes, Gish simply can't be trusted to tell the truth.  Richard Trott reports a whole series of falsehoods by Gish during a 1994 talk at Rutgers.  For example, Gish stated that there are no fossil precursors to the dinosaur Triceratops.  In reality there are well known precursors, Monoclonius and Protoceratops, which appear in proper sequence in the fossil record and show the expected change in body size, number of horns, etc.  Gish also indicated that all three ceratopsians were contemporaneous.  In reality, Protoceratops came first, followed by Monoclonius, followed by Triceratops.  Trott's article exposing Gish's falsehoods prompted a reply from Gish which contained still more dishonest statements!  

Joyce Arthur reports another series of Gish falsehoods.  In the 1979 version of ETFSN, Gish claimed that Dubois concealed his discovery of Wadjak Man for about 30 years.  But in 1982 C. Loring Brace told Gish in a debate that Dubois had actually published, not one, but two reports about Wadjak Man shortly after its discovery.  Nevertheless, Gish repeated the same falsehood in Evolution: The Challenge of the Fossil Record (1985) and again in a 1992 debate with Karl Fezer.  Fezer even provided Gish with the references for Dubois's publications on Wadjak Man, but Gish repeated the same falsehood yet again in ETFSN.   Arthur pointed out Gish's falsehood again in 1996, but Gish repeated it yet again in a 1997 debate.  Such blatant, repetitive dishonesty is simply contemptible.  

In a 1983 PBS broadcast, Gish dismissed the significance of the similarity of chimp and human proteins, claiming that some bullfrog proteins were more similar to human proteins than chimp proteins were.  Asked to identify the specific proteins, Gish promised to do so, claiming that he had them in his records, but he never produced them, including in ETFSN.  In fact, there were no such proteins.  Gish simply made them up.  

Gish has such a poor reputation, that even other creationists frequently just ignore him.  For example, in 1985 Gish classified Java Man, Peking Man, and ER 1470 as clearly ape; but in 1992 Lubenow classified all three as clearly human!  

Gish recently retired from the ICR, which worked hand in hand with Gish in spreading falsehoods.  The ICR promotes and sells Gish's trashy books, including his comic book "Have You Been Brainwashed?"   The ICR continued selling the original version for at least nine more years after Gish himself admitted that it contained numerous errors.  The ICR is still selling a revised, 1994 version, but even the revised version still contains some of the same errors as the original!  So who is brainwashing whom???

These examples (and many others) show how dishonest Gish is and help explain why creationists publish their ideas in oral debates and lectures, or in popular books like ETFSN, not in professional science journals.  In debates, if Gish is caught in a falsehood in front of one audience, that doesn't prevent him from repeating the same falsehood in front of other audiences.  And in books like ETFSN, Gish knows he can get away with lying, because most creationists aren't likely to check his statements.  Such blatant dishonesty can't survive the peer-review process of professional science journals, however, which is why creationists like Gish never publish their creationist trash there.  
