     "Let us be willing to test our spiritual experiences and evangelistic practices by Scripture," Pastor Will Metzger implores (51). Regrettably, Pastor Metzger was loathe to follow his own sound advice, opting instead to test his and the rest of Christendom's spiritual experiences and evangelistic practices by the standards laid down so long ago in the Westminster Confession of Faith (1646). And that is the main reason this latest revised and expanded edition of his ironically titled Tell The Truth (Downers Grove, Ill.: InterVarsity Press, 2002) remains a wealth of hyper-Calvinistic misinformation.

     Twenty-one years after the first printing of Tell The Truth (hereafter, TTT), Pastor Metzger remains deeply troubled that increasingly cynical Christendom is still attempting to evangelize the unbelieving world by showing only the attractive parts of the gospel message, and as a result are creating a vast army of God-damned (literally) pseudo-converts. Pastor Will, who began his career as a campus minister on the staff of InterVarsity Christian Fellowship at the University of Delaware the same year Sir Winston Churchill departed for his eternal reward (1965), believes a return to "biblical evangelism" can reverse the curse of "me-centered" evangelism (38). And so TTT attempts to remedy the current sorry situation by explaining fully the content of the gospel (part 1: pp. 23-86); insuring that gospel message converts intellect, emotions, and will, i.e. the entire soul (part 2: pp. 87-111); explaining proper Calvinistic soteriology (part 3: 112-158); and learning how to competently defend and communicate the faith (part 4: 159-207). If for some reason the reader feels the need to have the main points of TTT rehearsed and/or get some idea how they might be put to good use in the real world, Pastor Metzger offers appendixes A-D (pp. 208-259).  

     In Pastor Metzger's considered (read: Reformed Church tradition) opinion, the numerous miracles performed by 1st century A.D. evangelists in the book of Acts may be hanged, because there are really only two ways to proclaim Christ: "The airplane of Christian witness has two wings: our lives (conduct) and our lips (conversation)" (25). Strangely, Pastor Metzger offers no scriptural reference(s) to buttress this rather sweeping claim. The omission is particularly glaring given the bitterness of the complaint he voices in TTT's introductory chapter: "Why is there such reticence to examine the biblical basis for methods of witness (especially if they are the ones our church uses)?" (17). The irony is already palpable.

     Just a few pages later Pastor Metzger folds and tucks away one of his two wings of Christian witness, observing that numerous religious persuasions and philosophies will also produce positive, observable changes in conduct capable of impressing others (28). But a few pages later the wing is reopened by Pastor Metzger, who now declares new converts may safely conclude they are truly saved when "they see the fruits of a changing life" (38). Fine.

     Pastor Metzger next reminds that "in the book of Acts we see the apostles as teachers--reasoning, persuading, explaining--involved in all sorts of teaching activity in order to communicate as much truth as possible to nonbelievers" (34). Unfortunately Pastor Metzger omits the fact that secularists, Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, and numerous other cult leaders are also actively engaged as teachers--reasoning, persuading, explaining--involved in all sorts of teaching activity in order to communicate as much "truth" as possible to nonbelievers. The all-important difference is that unlike these false witnesses of God, the apostles were able to perform many wonders and signs (Acts 2:43). Those signs and wonders authenticated the apostles' divine bona fides, just as they had previously authenticated Jesus Christ's divine bona fides, and the divine bona fides of the true prophets' of the OT before him. 

     (Where exactly in the NT did Pastor Metzger read that God would go into semi-retirement immediately after giving the apostle John a revelation of the future? Where?)

     Pastor Metzger spends the rest of part one differentiating between "me-centered evangelism," i.e., spreading Christianity by emphasizing the many personal benefits that will attend salvation, and "biblical evangelism," i.e. five-point Calvinism. "Conversion is both a turning from and a turning toward" Pastor Metzger insists (67-68). "Both law and love are basic ingredients in telling the gospel story" Pastor M. admonishes (71). Consciences need to be pricked. People must be made to understand that they do not have proprietary rights to their own lives, God does.

     Pastor M. is not keen on encouraging new converts to make a public confession of their faith, ala Romans 10:9-10. He thinks they should be left alone to meditate on Scriptures like Isaiah 53, Psalm 51, and Galatians 2:20 (76). Apparently never having read Acts 16:31 or Philippians 2:11, Pastor M. declares "There is not one exhortation in Scripture to `accept Christ as Lord,'" (77).

     On page 79 Pastor M. lists three ways to know you are saved. The first is when you "trust in the promises of God as being promises to you." The second is "a change in your attitude and actions corresponding to the fruit of the Spirit (Gal 5) and the marks of salvation (1 Jn)" (Pastor M. ignores his earlier observation that New Agers can also experience profound attitude changes). The third assurance of salvation is "the inner witness of God's Spirit to your spirit." Pastor M. does not unpack that statement, leaving it to the reader to exegete what he will from it. By marked contrast, the gospel writer Mark recorded Jesus' decidedly different criteria for determining who is saved: 

And these signs will accompany those who believe: In my name they will drive out demons; they will speak in new tongues; they will pick up snakes with their hands; and when they drink deadly poison, it will not hurt them at all; they will place their hands on sick people, and they will get well. (16:17-18).

     Part two tries to distinguish professors of Christianity from possessors of same in order to increase more of the latter. Conversion is a process, not an event Pastor M. cautions. Christianity is not a self improvement plan; it is God's method for restoring you to fellowship with Him. Converts need "to ask God for faith," since "they are not choosing to be saved" (91). Pastor M. then presents a short, biased analysis of the age-old Arminian-Calvinism debate on soteriology, concluding that the five points of Calvinism are "orthodox theology ... in need of further filling out" (109). 

     Part three, "Wholly by Grace," is largely a continuation of the Calvinist rant begun in part two. Pastor M. admits the arbitrary election of a relative handful to heaven and the overwhelming majority to hell is not fair, but hey, God is sovereign, and He would have been justified to throw everyone in hell, not just almost everyone. Humanity's free will has been disabled by sin, and now it cannot choose anything but sin (if that is true, and doing right is not an option, how could sin then be termed a "choice?"). "God hides the truth from some people. He doesn't reveal himself or Jesus to them. Why (Lk 10:21-22)?" (146). Pastor M. misinterprets that passage in Luke to mean intelligent people are tricked into unbelief by a vengeful or capricious God, as opposed to them being deserving victims of their own misplaced self-confidence.

     Part four begins by enumerating some of the difficulties philosophical pluralism creates for successful evangelism. Pastor M. defends Christian exclusivity by referring to John 14:6: Jesus answered, "I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me."  Pastor M. ignores the fact that Jesus' comments were offered to his own disciples at a private gathering, not addressed to the masses in general during a public sermon.

     Pastor M. observes all religious faiths save Christianity require its adherents "to do something" (165). Pastor M. apparently has not noticed that repenting, confessing, baptizing, trusting, etc., are verbs.

     Pastor M. believes the evangelistic value of Christian apologetics is limited. "God's chosen instrument in conversion is His Word, not our reasoning ability" (169). In that case we can only pity that great swath of humanity that was never taught how to read, or could never afford to purchase a copy of Scripture, or never had the Word translated into their native tongue.

     Pastor M. soon changes his mind about God's chosen instrument in conversion. "Prayer for others is the supreme God ordained method in evangelism" (178) As usual, Pastor M. offers no scriptural support for his emphatic, sweeping statement. He goes on to say "evangelism is asking the right questions" (189), but once again cites no NT anecdote to support his contention. Besides asking all the right questions, the Christian evangelist also needs to make sure an unbeliever understands "the impossibility of ... exercising faith on their own" (203). Fine.

     In summary, Tell The Truth proffers a pneumatology, a soteriology, and a strategy for evangelism that seems alien to those described in the book of Acts. When all is said and done, TTT is hoisted by its own petard: "... to be unwilling to evaluate our evangelism in the light of the Bible is to not take Scripture seriously" (19).
