I bought this book based on the other reviewers comments and read through the whole book.  I usually have an open mind, but this was a tough read for me.  Of all of the fantasies in the book, I only aligned with at most one of them -- or a few brief parts of 2 or 3.

The author seems to be fixated on the relationship between sons and monthers; with the father being the competition for the mother's attention (in the son's view).  Anyway, that's the author's explanation for most of the chapters.  

I'm not going to debate the author's point, which on the surface would seem to imply that a single-monther household with only one son would be "ideal", but both the author and I agree that this would not be "ideal".  

Anyway, enough of that and on to the book.  The author has gathered up numerous letters from men that were submitted.  The submittal process was fairly random: if readers saw a request at the end of her previous book for women, or in brief blurbs in a couple of print advertisements.  So it seems that the people who would see these requests for input are a small subset of the population, and of those only a small fraction would actually write a letter.  So if you take this book as a conpendum of fantasies from a fringe of society, then you'll start reading the book with the correct mindset.

I'm a little unsure as to how to comment on this book, but I felt compelled to do so because the other reviewers left out something that I would appreciate knowing.  So here's a summary of the book:

1. sons love their mothers, and feel "separated" from them.
2. fathers compete for mothers' affections (i.e. son goes to his room at night and father goes in with mother).
3. the chapters are grouped "sort of" by subject area.  But there is no clear reason to the ordering of the chapters.
4. there appears to be little editing of the letters composing the chapters.  The author even says that she was hesitant to edit the letters.  
5. the format of each chapter is usualy a couple of letters, then some commentary, then a couple more letters.
6. the author attempts to portray the letters as a broad swath of society, however from the letters it appears that many of the men writing over 18 have failed marriages or previous marriages (and are on #2 or #3).  In counting up the letters, the divorce rate amongst the letter writers is significantly higher than the US national average (currently at 40% per capita according to divorcereform.org) for those letter writers above 18. The author's own statistics on this in the beginning of the book are misleading because she counts remarried the same as married (this, not divorced).


On the whole, I didn't get much out of this book.  I was expecting something that would put some of my fantasies in context, or give me cool ideas for some fantasies to fantasize about.  But in the end I had trouble relating to this book and chunked it
