Don't buy this book.  Please.  It is not worth the time, money or brain cells.  I recieved this book as a gift for my birthday (what are you trying to say Mom?).  I proceded to skim it enough to be competant enough to write this review, and then threw it directly in the trash can.  Where it belongs.  

The book lists approximatly 25 different occasions in life and tries to show how to dress for them. Examples of some of these occasions are work, work casual, date, girls night out, casual wear, summer wedding, pregnancy.  For each occasion, the book has a cartoon picture of a "frumpy" girl and a "foxy" girl.  The author then attempts to explain how to be the foxy girl and not the frumpy girl.  Unfortunatly her advice consists mainly of her repeating advice that anyone with half a brain would already know.  

Take her "work casual" chapter as an example.  Her "frumpy" cartoon girl comes to work wearing jeans with holes, a dirty "kiss me I'm Irish" tee shirt, and an old bookbag.  Unless you work in a coal mine, you already know that this kind of outfit is obviously a big no any day of the week.  Her "foxy" cartoon is what you would expect - nice jeans, blouse, heels.  Duh.  The advice is equally as dumb.  Since my copy of "Frumpy" is in a landfill somewhere, I can't exactly quote, but I know it goes something like this - "Like, don't dress like that frumpy girl on the left!  Like yeah!  Dress like the foxy girl on the right!  And like don't like wear jeans with holes in them!"  Okay maybe I'm exaggerating a little bit but trust me.  Her advice tells you nothing.  

The thing that makes me so angry about this book is, it's insulting!  This woman acts as if you have no idea whatsoever how to dress yourself.  The pictures make you feel bad because even the so-called frumpy girls are hot!  And the advice is stuff that you already know how to do and are probably already doing.  Such as brushing your teeth in the morning.  I'm not joking, that is actual advice from the book!  The worst part is the little "about the author" section.  It basically says that this chick and her friend out in California somewhere decided to write this book because they wanted to help the rest of the clueless masses dress more like them.  Yeah... those are two people I NEVER WANT TO MEET.

If you really want to change your style for the better, I would reccomend Kendall Farr's book "Pocket Stylist."  She actually shows you how to shop and dress better for all occasions, unlike the woman who wrote "Frumpy to Foxy."  I urge you, please don't make Ms. Rubin's wallet or ego any fatter than it already is
