This book is way too much, in almost every respect. I say almost because there is one respect lacking, which is Quality, with a Robert Pirsig capital Q. There are plenty of pages, words, descriptions, drugs, inane ramblings, and just about anything else under the sun you might identify with a book that is, at last count, going absolutely nowhere in a very verbose way. This is the epitome of not having much to say and taking a long, long time to say it. Very late 20th Century America, to be sure. 

I read 200 pages, give or take. These 200 pages represent roughly the equivalent of most full-length novels, given that the average DFW page contains about 500 words. The thing still had 800 pages to go, plus footnotes. In a world teeming with books screaming to be read, a 1000 page, small-print book with little direction has no room to stand in my world, let along sit on my lap and take up valuable reading time. As it is, I wasted far too much time reaching page 200, a task I deem Herculean yet foolish at the same time. Why did I not stop at 100? I cannot answer that question.

The book appeared to be headed for points unidentified at around, oh..let's say page 2. I stuck it out, opting to see if it would eventually go somewhere. That's like standing next to a dead elephant wondering if that, too, will go somewhere. I assure you that no amount of time spent staring at its lack of movement will make a difference. Do yourself a favor and walk away from this particular elephant, lest you become irate and throw it at someone. This thing could really hurt a person if you were inclined to do something like that.

I obviously don't have anything good to say about this book. In trying to understand people who might like it (since it does have a 4 star average rating after all), I can only venture a guess that young, not-especially well-traveled readers do? Some lost segment of Generation X which never woke up to realize that the world is more than Dave Eggers and Douglass Coupland? Blind People?

A friend of mine once reviewed Dave Navarro's album Trust No One by saying that the potential buyer would be wise to heed the title of the album. Likewise, you can use this same sentiment when standing in the bookstore contemplating the purchase of Infinite Jest, because in the end, you'll wonder if the joke is on you
