Although Roy Schoeman appears to have a very worthy goal --  exploring the Jewish roots of the Catholic faith, especially as they pertain to salvation history -- I'm disappointed to say that I can't recommend this book at all.  

For one thing, the author presents a number of speculative ideas that don't appear to have any basis in Catholic teaching.  For instance, he tries to make the case for a separate "Hebrew Catholic community" within the Church, with its own liturgies, etc.  This wouldn't just be for reasons of ethnic identity (as in, say, a Polish Catholic parish), but also for spiritual ones.  He suggests that God might desire this type of separation, as a way to preserve and promote the distinctive "Jewish charism," or "leaven" -- whatever that is.   Along the same lines, he also puts forth the notion that Jewish Catholics have "particular qualities and characteristics," given to them by God, which make them different from Gentile Catholics. This sounds very creepy and un-Christian to me.  It smacks of ethnic chauvinism.  Saying, "all Jews, as a group, have certain uniquely good qualities," makes no more sense than saying, "all Jews, as a group, have certain uniquely bad qualities."  

Then there's his concept that "the New Covenant is fulfilled in the Old," which is a complete reversal of the traditional Catholic belief.  Judging by the lack of references, he seems to be making this, and many of his other ideas, up out of whole cloth.  (On the back cover blurb, two fellow converts from Judaism, David Moss and Ronda Chervin, note that he "weaves together fascinating speculations," "some of which most have never heard before.")  These sorts of novelties have no place in a popular work of this type.  When Catholics buy books from Ignatius Press, they're looking for reliable information, not bizarre new theories from someone who doesn't even appear to have any formal training in Catholic theology.  

I was also very troubled by the fact that Mr. Schoeman repeatedly refers to "the Arabs," en masse, as being violent and anti-Semitic. In saying this, he tragically ignores the peaceful voices of many people in the Arab world. (For example, see Father Elias Chacour's "Blood Brothers," in which a self-described "Arab Palestinian Melkite Catholic priest who is an Israeli citizen" tells the inspiring story of how he's worked together with his Christian, Muslim, and Jewish neighbors to forge bonds of love and mutual understanding.)  The author even alleges (p. 255) that the Arabs (yep, all of 'em) are controlled by the devil -- a slander that was, of course, directed at the Jews in centuries past.  Talk about fanning the flames of bigotry and hatred.  Mr. Schoeman, have you learned nothing from all those history books you've read?

Jesus Christ, our salvation, came from the Jews, but He now lives in the Church... and the Church does not judge or discriminate between people on the basis of their ethnic background.  I wish all of Her members could say the same
