This is truly a disappointing book.  It starts incredibly slowly and I found it very hard to become interested in the plot.  Another disappointment is Koontz's recycling of elements from other novels: (1) plucky, highly intelligent disabled girl (the young female protagonist in "The Hideaway" had almost identical deformities and personality), (2) devoted, super-powered canine companions, (3) bad guys driving around in ultra pimped-out RVs, and (4) evil bioethicists.

The Leilani character is patently ridiculous.  She conveniently has a genius IQ, but that does not make the absurdly adult manner in which she speaks any more believable.  I found it so disconcerting as to detract from the plot.  Koontz clearly has trouble writing for children, and this book is no exception.  Almost all the children featured in his books are either autistic/MR or genius wunderkinds; the latter, however, does not justify his habit of making smart children talk like genius adults.  Dean heaps the hardships on poor Leilani, with all the subtlety of an episode of Walker, Texas Ranger.  In case you miss the anvils, you are supposed to really, really like her and fear for her safety.

I don't know how or where Dean Koontz learned about bioethics, but he has a terribly misguided view of the field, taking an extreme sect of it to represent the main viewpoint of the field.  Further, he states multiple times that these eugenic bioethics principles are being taught to medical students at major universities (who will have to pay for their involvement with evil bioethics) -- as a medical student, I can assure you that this is patently untrue.  That Koontz could be so off-base on a topic that directly relates to the central motive is disconcerting and makes an already weak book even harder to swallow.

The final issue is Koontz's near-deification of dogs, particularly Golden Retrievers, which is a common motif in his more recent works.  It is ridiculous and unintentionally funny to an almost painful degree.  His obsession with dogs and their mystical powers borders on the psychotic (and I like dogs).  This novel probably features the most egregious example of Koontz's tendency to create overly sappy, sugary-sweet endings.

Dean Koontz has written many books better than this one.  Spend your money on one of his stronger efforts
