After watching the movie "The Wedding Date", which is based upon this book, I felt like I'd missed something. It was a cute idea with amusing possibilities, but the movie was poorly executed. I figured I might as well give the book a shot. Usually books are better than movies, right?

Over all, I preferred the movie. Aside from a few moments of laugh-out-loud humor, most of it is pretty dry and bland. It drags on and on, with a good 100 pages to even get to the wedding. After the wedding, the book just kind of meanders, as if the author realized she couldn't possibly make it convincing that these two are so infatuated with each other after one afternoon. She could have meandered to 1000 pages, and I still wouldn't be convinced.

The book's biggest problem is the "heroine", Sophy. She is--as she often says herself--such a cow. Oh, and she's also fat.
She's a raging b*tch towards Josh, who is technically doing her a rather nice favor, wouldn't you say? But she's constantly snippy with him, completely paranoid, and always assuming he thinks the worst about her. Plus, she lies on a consistent basis, especially to him. Yet he still likes her, despite all this...and despite the fact that she's fat.
Any skinny, pretty woman is automatically a b*tch and a man-stealing cow. Maybe this is due to Sophy's fat-o-vision? Because of course, unlike those skinny pretty women, Sophy is too fat for a man to find her attractive. She's dead certain that as soon as someone a pound or two lighter walks onto the scene, Josh will be on them like white on rice. Isn't that lovely? But in spite of that, too, he still likes her. And despite the fact that she's fat.

Are you sick of me stating that Sophy is fat? Is it getting on your nerves? Because if it is, then this book will make you want to tear your hair out. I've been overweight for the greater half of my life, and I have self-esteem issues, but unlike Sophy, my every thought does not center around my weight. Of course, I, at least, would be justified. How the hell does Sophy, with her 36C chest, qualify as fat? Seeing as how she's about 5'10", a 36 inch underbust is not even close to fat. 
Here's a little tip to the chick lit authors of the world: it's okay to make your herione overweight so long as you don't HARP ON ABOUT IT LIKE AN OBSESSIVE FREAK! 

Completely unsympathetic as a character, it's impossible to feel bad for anything Sophy goes through, as she tends to reap what she sows. And the utterly predictible ending was completely unbelievable. Lovely idea, completely wasted on a Heroine From Hell and a "plot" held together by bubblegum and elastic bands.
