I enjoyed the first two books in this trilogy. However, this third book needs some serious time in the Intensive Book Surgery Unit before it should have even been published. Frankly, this manuscript should have been kicked back from the editor to the author and refused. I realize that's a pretty heavy thing to say, but it's true. Something went badly wrong here.

The author did not do his job in bringing his protagonists to closure; having two kids fall in love, then decide to live apart for the rest of their lives is a complete crock. Puhleaze. I grew to rather like the aeronaut Texan and the explorer, and they're killed to little point. Puhleaze. Iorek the Bear is darn cool, and he barely (sorry) makes an appearance in book 3. Puhleaze. And, by the way, who is Mary, introduced so late in the trilogy, as an underfunded Dark Matter physicist (who just happens to be ... an ex-nun ... now, just wait a minute here, is that heavy handed or what?)... and Dark Matter would be *under* funded? Puhleaze. (Although these days, she'd be working on Global Warming.) And Mrs. Coulter, in a lifetime full of being evil, suddenly has a turn of heart (yes, just like The Grinch), and, in her new fullsome of goodness, helps kill an angel. Huh? What? Say that again?

   I was thrilled (not) at Pullman's description of an endless, boring ... [come to think of it, very much like reading Volume III of this trilogy] ... somewhat-Purgatory-Without-Dante's-Skill that apparently is his vision of death. Everyone stands around being ... boring. Gosh, how exciting, what a vision, et cetera. It's duller than the endless views of the Enterprise in Star Trek I. It's more boring than the endless endless views of the Discovery in 2001: A Space Odyssey. When the dead people standing around there are given the chance to decompose, they go for the gusto. As to why any of this should be in a book, I can only offer my puzzlement. 

    Jerry Pournelle once gave me some terrific advice. "Never give a reader a chance to put down one of your books, because if you do, they will, and they'll never pick it up again.". I zoomed non-stop through the first two books of this trilogy. The last book took me a week plus and I was extremely annoyed with it. 

I was amused that Philip Pullman, in his Afterword, gives credit to stealing his ideas (those are his words) from Paradise Lost (John Milton). Frankly, I wish he had stolen more, this book would have been better. His utter hatred of The Church shines through this book. He has sort of an Idiot's Guide to Quantum Mechanics but isn't up on it.

   This mess needs to be storyboarded, and everything that does not PROMOTE THE STORY needs to be chucked out. And that's about half of this book. Whoever edited this book badly needs to be chewed out. I suspect, though, that it boiled down to "not enough time to fix" in the publishing schedule; Del Rey is not noted for publishing messes like this.

