I bought this book because the authors are very interesting and unusual people.  Ray Kurzweil is one of few genuine geniuses of modern technology, and Dr. Grossman seems a very engaged and knowledgeable physician with a prevention-based practise, which I applaud.

It quickly became evident that Ray Kurzweil has a major impetus towards this topic of life extension because of a family history of disease and early death- but, hey, he's not that different from any of us.  I myself am a boomer who would really like to find some ways to live as long and healthily as possible, and I'm sure the audience of similar boomers is quite substantial.  That is why there are quite a few books similar to this one appearing.

I have read several of these books, am in the medical field, and am quite familiar with the literature on health and life extension.  The basic problem with this and many other books is that a program is offered after some discussion of the topic (often very selective) but the program is NOT supported by anything like sufficient evidence to merit its adoption.   

I could enlarge on this about a lot of areas of this book, but just to give one example is the issue of supplements.  Ray takes about 260 pills a day, and Dr. Grossman about 60 (apparently they don't quite agree).   It is very hard to know if these supplements are going to help you, and, importantly that they won't harm you.  Just to give an example, even the supplements which would have appear most promising, antioxidant vitamins C and E, have been studied in appropriate trials, and have given very mixed results.   In one study, antioxidants of various types were  tested  to see if they would reduce lung cancer incidence.  One antioxidant was associated with a HIGHER incidence of lung cancer.  Supplement with care.

In the end, what can you do?  Well, you can be sure you never smoke, do not allow yourself to become obese, eat a nutritious balanced diet, get regular aerobic exercise, and keep engaged and purposeful as possible in all aspects of your life.  You can't write a book and just have this one sentence, but it appears to be the truth at the present time.

The future- nanotechnology molecular machines zipping around our bodies finding and zapping tumors and so on may happen- but don't hold your breath.  This is interesting speculation, but you may not see it until 100 (or 1000) years from now, if ever
