The Media Career Guide, by James Seguin, is unique in its intent - but that's not necessarily a good thing.  Books about résumés and interview strategies are a dime a dozen, but works focusing on making one's self an appealing candidate for a job in the many different forms of media are few and far between, perhaps for good reason.

Whether a person wants to work in TV, radio, newspapers, magazines, public relations or advertising, this book brings to light seemingly obvious tips that one might not come up with on his or her own.  However, many of the ideas in this book are SO obvious, they didn't need to be written in a book.  Strategies are outlined - step-by-step - for becoming more cognizant about improving one's skills.  The 34 preparation suggestions are divided into sections - "get started," "learn all you can learn," develop and attitude for success," "take action" and "know your field."  But just by looking at the section titles, one can see that there aren't any revolutionary ideas being presented here.

I will say that, because this book outlines many obvious things, people who have read the book should not have any excuse for not being prepared to get a media job, aside from being completely lazy.

Suggestions range from actively planning for a career in the media to places to look for more information to make one's self an expert in a specific area.  The tidbits of advice direct you to places to go for more information.  There's no specific help in this book, when there easily could have been; there are only suggestions as what somebody should start looking into, with ideas about how to do that.  The writer seems like he wants to go more in-depth at times but backs off. 

Emphasis is placed on developing good habits before one enters the workforce and once a job is secured.  While every point is valid, again, many seem to state the obvious.  Everyone knows that you'll be a better job candidate if you're more qualified that other applicants.  Many of the author's suggestions just restate that idea in slightly more specific ways.

The book also contains an adequate list of resources for finding jobs.  I've seen comparable lists for job banks before.  People who have already searched for jobs probably won't find anything new in this book.  Also listed are publications and organizations to look into that could provide an extra edge to somebody seeking a communications career.

The book also contains a guide to what media jobs are actually out there, something that could be helpful to those who know they want to work in communications but aren't exactly sure what all is available.  People who know what they want to do might also be able to pinpoint their specialty using this section.  Realistically, however, people who are serious about media careers will already know all this information.  I learned nothing from this section
