I have met Paul Hornung in person twice.  The second time was in Green Bay when I bought this book at a book signing.  Not only did Hornung charge full price for the book, he charged an additional $15 for his signature!  I was the only person in line at the time and as a common courtesy I stuck out my hand to shake his after getting my book.  At first it looked like he wouldn't even shake my hand.  He finally relented and gave me a dead fish handshake without removing the Sharpie from his hand.  Reading this book was about as satisfying as that handshake.  Hornung is big on name dropping, but seems to have little use for the common fan.

This book reads easily, but is not rewarding.  It contains many unflattering items about Hornung.  He got his girlfriend pregnant in college and let her go off and have an abortion.  Hornung told her whatever she did to keep it quiet to avoid any bad publicity.  Certainly, everyone has heard about the womanizing and Hornung readily admits that much of it occurred while he was married to his first wife.  He also admits to smoking marijuana on multiple occasions and trying cocaine once (he didn't like it).  Gambling is justified as a way of life learned from his Louisville upbringing.  An episode in which Hornung used insider information on a player's injury to place a large college bowl game bet is detailed.  His embarassing comments regarding lowering Notre Dame's admission standards to get "the black athlete" are also discussed.  Hornung seems truly amazed that just apologizing like a good Catholic going to confession (which Hornung doesn't believe in) hasn't enabled him to continue broadcasting Notre Dame football games.

I was astounded by the great number of factual errors in this book.  It made me wonder if the publisher has any fact checkers on staff.  Off the top of my head, I remember these errors:

Forrest Gregg was said to retire before the 1967 season to become an assistant coach at Tennessee.  In reality, Gregg played for the Packers through the 1970 season.

Fred Williamson was said to be on the Oakland Raiders team that played in Super Bowl II instead of the Kansas City Chiefs team that played in Super Bowl I.

Hornung incorrectly states that the score of Super Bowl I was 37-10 instead of 35-10.

Frank Gifford is said to be on the original Monday Night Football team instead of Keith Jackson.

Hornung states that he didn't like Dan Devine because he crippled the Packers franchise by wasting several number one draft picks on Dan Fouts.  It that were true, it might have been a good trade.  Actually, Devine sent five high draft picks to San Diego for John Hadl not Dan Fouts.

Eddie Lee Ivery's last name is incorrectly spelled Ivory.

I think Paul Hornung still sees himself as a matinee idol.  He has basically lived life on scholarship and I guess he figured he could cash in on this book without a great deal of effort.  It is obvious that more effort should have gone into this book.  For my money, Hornung is overrated.  It never ceases to amaze me how he is given more credit for the Packers success of the 1960's than leading rushing Jim Taylor.

