 I bought this book after reading Caroline Rey say male orgasm is inferior to female multiple orgasms in "The Mammoth Book of Love and Sensuality". "The Multi-Orgasmic Man" has similiar views, and says that ejaculation is a pitiful 5-second experience that leaves a man feeling exhausted. The book claims it will teach a man how to have multiple orgasms without ejaculation. It claims that these techniques come from the East. Please keep in mind that China has a population of over a billion people, and India also has a population of over a billion people. So, it is clearly a myth that Eastern men withhold ejaculation. I practiced the techniques in this book for six months. The stamina techniques were effective for me, but I never experienced multiple orgasms. I've come to learn that once is enough. If it's not broke, why fix it? There's nothing wrong with the male orgasm. If the male orgasm is only 5 seconds, that's long enough. If men can only have one orgasm at a time, that's okay. Even that exhaustion a man feels after coming is not a bad thing, it relieves his stress and relaxes him. I do not feel male orgasm is inferior to female multiple orgasms, I feel it is only different. Yes, men need to be aware of women's needs. But nobody should be so cruel to a man. The best advice I've heard to satisfy a woman, is to start by giving her a good massage. A woman's body is errogenous and deserves to be stimulated. Then stimulate her clitoris and g-spot with your hands and mouth. It takes the average woman a half hour to begin having her multiple orgasms. So, if you are uncertain about your stamina, spend more time stimulating her with your hands and mouth. It is important for a woman to tell a man what she needs. The ancient Greeks felt it was a woman's fault for her sexual frustration if she did not tell her man what she needed. After a woman is satisfied it is time to focus on his needs. Most men want to recieve oral sex. Most men would also enjoy to recieve a good massage. A man's body is also errogenous, and deserves to be stimulated. There is better advice on sex than what "The Multi-Orgasmic Man" has to offer.  
