Warning: Contains Spoiler

I was hooked from the first sentence: "You see, I needed to go to hell." I felt like some people when they see a bad car wreck; you know you're going to see something ugly, but you look anyway. Could anything be worse than "You see, I needed to go to hell?" YES! And it was the very next sentence: "I was, you might say, homesick." It gushed with pretense. I cringed with embarrassment for the writer, yet I kept reading. 

The sentences kept coming like ammunition from an assault weapon: "I was born to smoke opium." Tosches must have liked that sentence himself because he repeated three times on one page. And it was a small page because, you see, this isn't really a book, it's a short story with a hard cover. And Tosches isn't just born to smoke opium. He explains he was born to smoke it in "dark, brocade-curtained, velvet cushioned places of luxurious decadence...(among) lovely loosening limbs draped from the high-slit cheongsams of recumbent exotic concubines of sweet intoxication." Such flowery prose. It flows as if it's direct from the pen of a teenage dandy writing down his fantasy for a wet dream.

Midway through the book Tosches arrives in Bangkok. In his search for opium he finds himself surrounded by three young (perhaps, underage) sex workers. One of the girls is stroking his crotch, another masturbates while wagging her tongue and the third is having her nipple squeezed between the old writer's thumb and forefinger. Eventually he becomes "bored with Nana" (I have to assume he is referring the prostitute in Zola's Rougon-Macquart series.) It seems important (and quite distracting) for Tosches to let his reader know that he is aware of many things. He makes sure to mention Jean Cocteau, Milton Freidman and Emanuel Kant all in one tiny story. Nonetheless, I keep reading. I feel the guilty pleasure of a teenage girl reading a Jacqueline Suzanne novel. It's so bad, it's good. It's so very bad.  

But let me be kind, if you like Hunter S. Thompson, you might like Tosches, just as if you like Faulkner you might enjoy reading writings from the Faux Faulkner contests. Dr. Thompson is an excellent journalist and takes you on the ride with him. You're there among the Hell's Angels or in the Las Vegas heat with a crazy lawyer. Tosches is more like tour guide who sits a little too close to you and constantly taps you on the shoulder with a Hey-did-I-mention-I'm-one-jaded-bastard? Hey, did you know I'm a smart guy? Listen, listen, I can analyze a subject like it's under a Bunsen burner and I heat it up until it becomes a vapor and all but evaporates. 

Anyway, here's the spoiler: Tosches never finds the opium den of his dreams, but he does find the dark sticky ball and the proper pipe to smoke it with. Perhaps he was born to smoke opium for medicinal reasons. He tells us in the beginning of the story that he's diabetic and it was brought to his attention opium was once considered to be effective in the treatment of diabetes. 

Tosches is not a brave man. He covers his bases. He must have learned something from Jim Hogshire. He made sure his experimentation wasn't done on U.S. soil and he names no names, no roads. 

Tosches ends his story with "The lamp is lit, the pipe is tilted. I am home." My last thought was, why didn't he stay there
