Fukuyama trots out stereotypes that he must have picked up at his Japanese-Protestant father's knee, under a thick veneer of impenetrable sociological jargon that can fool the occasional reader into believing that this is an impartial scientist at work. Like all stereotypes, Fukuyama's are a blend of breathtaking overgeneralizations, and huge blind spots. And, like all stereotypes, they are utter nonsense.

The book attempts to update Max Weber's "Protestant ethic" story to include some non-Christian societies. The basic argument of the book is that Catholics are unable to trust people outside their immediate family, and so unable to form associations that are not based on family ties. The same is true of the Chinese, claims Fukuyama. These are the Catholics of the Orient. 

The Japanese and Protestants are able to transcend family ties and therefore form a vast range of associations that do not have a genetic basis, especially large professionally managed corporations. 

The feckless Catholics and Chinese however are doomed to form business enterprises that can never be more than over-grown Mom and Pop operations. Fukuyama therefore has a gloomy prognosis for the economic miracles of China or Taiwan or Singapore--however brilliant a businessman Pop may be, sooner or later descendants like Paris Hilton will be running the show.

There is an interesting chapter on Korea, where Fukuyama is at pains to show that however like wannabe Japanese/Protestants Korean business organizations may seem, they are really Chinese/Catholic at heart.

The book's thesis is obvious nonsense. Dramatic counter-examples exist, such as the Chinese Communist Party or the Jesuits. Also, the broad idea that Catholicism or Chinese-ness contributes to poverty lacks a statistical basis. 

I saw a recent article about thousands of Japanese orphans in China who were taken in and looked after by Chinese families after Japan's World War II defeat. Rather surprising behavior in this "low-trust" society! Perhaps these Chinese had been somewhat civilized by the high-trust ways of the occupying Japanese
