At first glance, this book comes off as being the innovative and thorough work it claims to be. It is fairly well written and appears to be well researched, and is heavily sourced. If taken at face value one may accept that the authors had truly uncovered information that proves that some of the long held beliefs about Romanov history are wrong, as they offer new information and new perspective on things. 
 
But all this starts to fall apart as soon as one bothers to check the references and sources for the "ground-breaking" information the book claims to offer. 
 
There are at a least three points in this book that  are the keystones of the authors' most controversial insinuations: 

1. Implications that the Grand Duchesses got raped on the trip from Tobolsk to Ekaterinburg

2. Claims that the Grand Duchess Maria had a relationship with a guard and so fell out of favor with her family 

3. And last, but most certainly not least, insinuations that the DNA results are suspect. 

The above three points the FOTR authors raise fly in the face of accepted historical facts, but are claimed to be based on "new sources". This of course would be all well and good, except that upon closer scrutiny it becomes painfully obvious that the authors' assertions are based on misquotes and referrals to sources that make no mention of what the authors claim they say (or even state the opposite!). 
 
Let me give a couple of specific examples below, for the DNA insinuations:
 
P 445: "To obtain a complete sequence, or mtDNA fingerprint, Gill and Ivanov were forced to look for overlapping, repetitive strands, which were then spliced together to form the missing links in the genetic chain. Although standard practice, this scientific necessity did not provide an unaltered genetic code for the remains, but rather one achieved through manipulation of the available data based on estimation. (*35)" ( * reference 35 is Bryan Sykes' book "The Seven daughters of Eve" p 66-68). 

These words the authors use: "forced to look for overlapping", "missing links", "did not provide an unaltered genetic code", "achieved through manipulation", "based on estimation" - all sound very ominous. If the reader doesn't know basic science, this may give him/her the impression that the scientists did something manipulative, speculative, and that the end result didn't produce a clear-cut answer, but instead they ended up with an uncertain and questionable conclusion. 
 
In fact, this is absolutely not true. The entire point of mitochondrial DNA sequencing is that it produces an exact sequence - 100% correct sequence over say 600 letters. This is a very important point. If you get one single "altered genetic code" out of 600 letters, this means you got only 99.9% right, and 0.1% wrong answer, which will then ruin the whole theory/conclusion. The 0.1% difference would confirm that these remains were NOT the Romanov family. But this did not happen at all and the result was a 100% match. 
 
Greg King and Penny Wilson state that they based these facts on the Bryan Sykes' book. However, if you read pp 66-68 of the said book, Sykes never said such a thing, in fact he said the complete opposite. 
 
Sykes: "...eventually the sequences of the presumed Tsarina and her three children were typed. They all had exactly the same sequence as 111, 357. They were all an exact match with the Duke of Edinburgh." 

Sykes used the word "exact" twice. Not a single reference to the "altered genetic code" or "manipulation" or "estimation". 

So, paraphrasing, why do the authors use terms to imply that there were some sort of dodgy dealings going on, and why do they quote a page from a book that says the exact opposite of what they state? The answer is unclear, but it could be to create sensationalism of announcing "new findings" in order to sell more books... 
  
There are many other examples like this peppered throughout the book, as well as more obvious mistakes, like "mtDNA is found in the nucleus of each cell". 
 
The authors clearly mixed up their facts, and either exaggerated or changed things around, using various sources to demonstrate why they are right, and these sources do not check out upon scrutiny. Sadly, this was done in a way that seems to be deliberately deceptive. 
 
All in all, this makes the book seem heavily "agendized" and leaves a bad taste in the readers' mouth.  I would not recommend this book to those who want to get real historical (and other) facts
