I have read close to 100 Star Trek novels, including four by the Martin and Mangels team. These two guys are consistantly the worst authors of Trek I have read. And mind you, I've read Triangle! 
The idea for a Titan series was really exciting to me. Riker and Troi were great characters and I loved Nemesis. This book, and its sequel, however, are an amateurish romp on par with slash fic. They are terrible. The worst Trek novels I have ever read.
There are too many characters, most of whom are completely forgettable. Many are, to coin a phrase, illogical. Why would the Federation allow a species into Starfleet who found babies tasty morsels when they were HORRIFIED by the Anticans' diet? Not only that, but the carnivorous baby-muncher is the ship's doctor! 
Furthermore, Roddenberry always insisted that sexuality was not an issue in Trek. It is why he never addressed certain issues. That doesn't stop the cast of this novel from running around in a state of adolescent lust and gossip-mongering about who's doing who. Not a Trek quality at all. BTW: That's not homophobia. I completely agree that Trek needs to put a gay character up front (married, too) because that is exactly the sort of social acceptance that \Trek has ALWAYS embraced. BUT not like this. Not when the ONLY notable characteristic of the character is his sexuality. Plus, the gay character is far from the only character in this book running around like a horny 16 year old. Even Ogawa gets in on the hoen-dogging.
My final gripe is that Riker and Troi are Mr. and Mrs. Not-Appearing-In-This-Book. They are barely in the novel. Where they do appear, they are not in character. Riker is sort of whiney and Troi is an esteem machine. Its dreadful an insulting to the fans of the characters and the actors who portrayed them.
Did I say finally? Oops... I have one more gripe, bigger than the rest- where's the plot? This slow moving gossip column in space spends three hundred pages getting to Romulus to watch nothing happen. It is slow moving, poorly written, and NOT worth the money. Read Peter David's New Frontier series if you want original Trek that lives up to the legacy.
