"The Accidental" by first-time Scottish novelist Ali Smith has to be one of the most irritating books I've read in a very long time.  It's so modern, it's really hard to tell what happened or why you should care about it.  This book won the Whitbread Novel Award.  According to another website, the Whitbread Award lost its sponsor and ceased to exist the same year.  Would it be fair to label this book as the one that killed the Whitbread Award?   The jacket also labels this book as a finalist for the Man Booker Prize whose website says that they award "the very best in contemporary fiction."  For me a requirement of the very best fiction is to be able to affect the reader in a positive way.  My only positive is that I finally got to the end of a dreadful book; & no, it did not get better.

Eve Smart is a novelist.  I usually try to avoid books where writers write about writers.  It's like a movie about movie stars or a song about songwriting -- it seems quintessentially self-indulgent.  Who knows what happens to Eve at the end of the book?  Why is she in some lady's house near the Grand Canyon?  Is it just to present another character as irritatingly self-absorbed as the main character?  Why is Eve unconcerned about her children?  Why does she see her dead mother floating above the Grand Canyon when this wasn't a book about her parents?  Wouldn't it have been more interesting to have her be eaten by a mountain lion? 

Michael is Eve's husband.  He's a university professor that sleeps with his students.  His wife Eve knows and doesn't care.  Are they progressive people because they sleep around?  Is this supposed to make us care about them?  What is the effect of their loose behavior on their two children?  Do we care or applaud when Michael gets fired?  

Astrid is the youngest child.  She is going through typical adolescent behaviors.  Yes, she is one of the most real of the characters, but she doesn't change throughout the book.  She gets mad at her mother for not being home and refuses to speak to Eve when she calls on the phone.  Astrid was right to be mad at Eve, but so what?

Magnus, the son, was the most interesting character to me simply because he loses his virginity in a church.  It's a bit of a mixed message from author Ali Smith.  What does it say about the church?  Is the message that "The Accidental" is man because there is no God proved because the church is empty?  Who knows?

Amber shows up as the family summers in Suffolk or Norfolk as Eve tries to write.  She buddies up with Astrid smashing her expensive camera.  She has sex with Magnus.  She insults Eve and gives her a knee massage.  She kisses Eve on the lips, right before Eve leaves for the Grand Canyon.  She ignores Michael.  Who is Amber?  Why is she in the book?  Magnus tells Astrid he knows who Amber is after she's disappeared, but Smith fails to let the readers know.  Is this a puzzle?  An illusion?  A nightmare?  Then when the family returns home, their house has been completely stripped.  Who did that?  What's the point?  

I did not care for Smith's repetitious use of pages of short sentences.  It doesn't further the story.  It basically just says, "Look at me.  I can write in short sentences."  However, it was enough to have her awarded the Whitbread Novel Award.  I didn't mind the poetry.  I liked it because I could get through the book faster.  To what point it was there, I cannot say.  Perhaps you will be more modern than I and not particularly care if a story makes sense or whether there is anybody about which to care.  For me, this is an award-winning dud.  Taxi!
             

