It was revealed by GLORIA STEINEM, quite soon after the untimely death of JACCQULINE KENNEDY ONASSIS, that Ms. KENNEDY had, very quitely and unobtusively, been contributing substatial amounts of money to N.O.W. for many, many years.  Now, (!), most people would not have thought that Jackie -- glamourous, gracious, and perennially-on-the-best-dressed-lists Jackie -- would have been one to support a "right-on, with-it" and somewhat aggressive organization such as "N.O.W."....but you see, she probably was a "women's liberationist" from Day 1 of her life.  Born into the social strata that she had been, it would have been rather difficult for her to, say, join the protests of Ceasar Chauvez in the vegetable fields, or go marching with Martin Luther King.  Yet her heart -- as well as that of her husband's -- were in these places 100%!   What to do?  She found the best way, (for her), to contribute: maintain the "social" facade, increase her wealth.....and then, unobtrusively, give it to those causes in which she truly believed!   There are, indeed, far more than one way to "skin a cat"....and/or change society!

However, an extremely handsome, extremely intelligent young man of my own 
acquaintance, who enjoys perfect health, had a perfect score on his SATs, who attended a top-40 private college, has a beautiful wife and precocious child, and probably a fantastic
future ahead of him if he so wishes), once told me, "But no one has ever discouraged ME!"  Perhaps.  (Does he know, I wonder, that one of the women he, personally, admires LEAST, H.M. Queen Elizabeth II, once said, similarly, "But no one has ever discriminated against ME because I am a woman!")  Does he not realize, that there are SO many OTHER people in the world who are equally, (or even more) ambitious as he, who do NOT enjoy perfect health, did NOT, (due to circumstances beyond their control), graduate or even go to
college, are NOT movie-star handome or beautiful, do NOT have many supportive relatives, (or perhaps none at all) -- and perhaps do not enjoy other advantages this young man hardly
thinks about...perhaps not even owning a car.  Yet, they, too,
may want to rise in life, and look about wildly for SOME way to advance themselves -- and perhaps, also, help others as well?  What can they do?  Robbing banks can get one into a lot of trouble....especially if one does not have a driver's licence and getaway car.  Working in a freak show, (there ARE some left), does not appeal to many proud people, (although one proud person---who DID work in a freak show, once said: "People come here and pay money to see me, I don't pay money to see them.  My job's OK with me!)  I suppose it's all how one views one's circumstances.   Hmmmm.....losing weight, having my hair done, and looking as well as I can?  Why not?  That's an almost-free road to almost anyone!  Become beautiful -- or at least as beautiful as I can!  Why not?????


I recently saw a TV report on three young women -- teen agers --
who have life-threatening illnesses. In the hospital as much --
- or more -- than they are out of it, each of the three qualified for the "Make-A-Wish" program.  And what was the wish these three young women had arrived at...each separately?  Their wish was to be a super-model for a day!  : )  : )  : )   Since each of the three had the same wish, they met, and went all together to the various places which would transform them into super-models for the day.  They also met and conversed with real models.

Is this wrong?  Body-image isn't everything,  (WHEN ONE BELIEVES THAT, IT'S A SICKNESS CALLED 'NARCISSISM'!)....but surely it has it's proper place.  Looking as good as one can helps to give a person a sense of self-respect!  And -- in 
this admittedly imperfect world -- looking good CAN help one get ahead.  (If a
pretty girl and a plain one both have the same qualifications for, say, a secretarial, (or any other) job....the pretty girl will probably get the job.  Why?  Because the employer will want to put on a "good face" for his business.  This is not to say that if a pretty girl does not groom herself well, that the plain one...who takes better care of herself...will probably get the job. For the same reason.  Because the employer wants to put on a "good face" for his business.  "Beauty is as beauty does", I suppose.  And no one proved this more than DIANA VREELAND herself.  Ms. Vreeland was NOT beautiful...in fact, her appearance verged on being just plain ugly....but she decided NOT to let this be a hindrance in her chosen profession.  She started and rose in it....and wound up as editor-in-chief of
VOGUE Magazine for many years!!!!!!

     I suppose what I'm arguing here for is the realistic discovery that yes, beauty DOES matter in today's world.  But trying to look as good as one can does N O T necessarily mean having a nose job or binding one's feet.  That is a personal decision each person has to make for one's self.  Looking as good as you can..and deriving confidence from this, is what counts.  And, (as was shown on an episode of "To Tell The Truth" several years ago), there is a young lady in India, who became a model....then used her earnings to open up her home to under-priviledged children.   Angelina Jolie has used her beauty and fame to help others as well.  The list of "beautiful people" doing good works is quite long.

     And who would tell those three teen-age girls with life-
threatening diseases that their "Make-A-Wish" desire to become
super-models for a day is unrealistic, backward, and hedonistic?
Not I.  Beauty makes people HAPPY!  And there is little enough
happiness in the world as it is!

     "Beauty for good".....for anyone who chooses it!......forever!!!!!!
