Volf's book is not so much about a Trinitarian theology of the Church as it is a theological foundation for the ecclesiology of free and congregational churches. Volf is presenting a case for the inclusion of  free churches within what is commonly known as the holy catholic, apostolic  and universal Church. He compares the ecclesiology of the free  (congregational) churches with the Orthodox and Roman Catholic Church.  Naturally, he does not totally accept their systems. However, he does  recognize the value of the relational ties that connect the parishes  together in their respective traditions. He rejects their hierachial  structures, but values the quality of community that exists beyond the  local congregation. The larger community is an antidote to parochialism and  the danger of local congregations becoming merely religious clubs  consisting of like minded persons. Yet, he sees the real strength of  Christianity residing in the local congregation. He supports the grassroots  or bottom up system of inter-congregational relationships. His ideal of a  cooperative Christian community is Trinitarian in nature, many equal bodies  joining together to form one unity which is not greater than the sum of the  parts. He sees the opposite in the Orthodox and Roman Catholic traditions.  There, the many have their origin from the one. The whole gives identify to  the many, and without the unity of the one, the many cannot exist. He  understands the Holy Trinity as being three separate and equal persons of  the same substance making up the Godhead. This view is part of his  justification of free church ecclesiology. He says that the Orthodox and  Roman Catholics have a trinity of unequal persons and practice an  ecclesiology of inferior parts. 	Volf presents a strong academic  defense for free church ecclesiology. It is a defense with many useful  insights, even for traditions with an episcopalian structure. However, a  general weakness of his work is the assumption that all local churches and  parishes perfectly practice the theologies and doctrines of their  respective traditions. I believe that there is more diversity within  denominations and traditions at the local level than anyone  in higher  academic or ecclesiastical circles wants to admit.  	Volf carries on a  hypothetical dialogue with John Zizioulas and Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger who  represent the Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church respectively.  He claims to present their authentic positions by offering quotes from  their writings, However, he is the one selecting the passages to debate. I  do not know the context from which he selected the passages; thus, I am not  able to determine his objectivity. Ratzinger and Zizioulas do not carry on  any authentic dialogue with Volf; it is quotation without true  participation. I feel that Volf is presenting Zizioulas and Ratzinger from  a position that is most favorable to his cause. Even with this most  favorable presentation, I still find myself agreeing more with their  positions than with Volf's. This is somewhat unusual because I usually  disagree with Ratzinger on most issues. Also, at times, there seems to be a  similarity between Ratzinger's idea of ecclesiolgy and those of John Wesley  in my own Methodist tradition
