Stanley "Tookie" Williams was convicted of 4 murders and sentenced by a Jury of his peers.  Yes it was his peers because there was a black man on the jury that convicted him.  The Judge in the case upheld both the conviction and the sentence.  The State Supreme Court did the same.  The Federal distric court upheld the sentence and the conviction as well.  The case came before the ninth circuit court( the court with the highest overturning rate in the country) and they refused to reverse either the sentence or the conviction.  Then the United States Supreme court refused to review the case.  All these steps happened at least three times, some even more than that.  Mr. Williams had his day in court and was found guilty in accordance with the laws of the state of California and those of the United States.  Several witnesses said that Williams bragged to them about the killings and that he mimicked the noises the victims made when they died. His accomplice even said he saw him do it. These witnesses were low life scum bags but then again so was Williams.  When you deal with loosers all you got are loosers. Also his shotgun was the one used in all four of the murders.  First the defense tried to challenge the balistics then said that the gun was stolen.  Make up your mind. Mr. Williams plotted an escape attempt while being held in which he planned to kill prison guards, his hand writting matched the plans.  Finally his shotgun was the one used in all four of the murders.  He left the jury with a favorable impression by threatening to kill all of them.  After 24 years he was finally executed for the murders.  He killed a 23 year old 7-11 clerk and an entire Taiwanese family of 3.  His crappy books don't make up for what he did.  Lastly consider the moral responsibility he has for founding the crips.  How many people have they killed?  Mr. Williams is responsible morally for all those victims.  He gave his victims death and he recieved death.  That is Justice pure and simple.  Never once did he apologize to the Owens family for his actions.  The Taiwanese family was scared into not talking, leaving Lora Owens( the 7-11 clerks step-mom) as the lone voice for these victims, even at great danger to her life.  He was given as much mercy as he showed, even more because he had 26 years his victims did not have.  He ranks right up there with Saddam and Osama. Mr. Williams deserved to die.  It was not vengeance it was justice. Barbara Becnel, right after the execution shouted, "The state of California just executed an innocent man."  After the execution I shouted "Thank God the State of California just killed an evil killer!" Also this peace loving man raped fellow prisoners and assaulted guards.  "If we are to abolish the death penalty I should like to see the first step taken by my friends the Murders"- Alphonse Kar
