The author states (p.330) regarding "Darwinism--adaptation brought about by natural selection": "Whether we like it or not, we are stuck with it. The Darwinian revolution is over, and Darwin won."

He goes on to say that any satisfactory response must hence be on Darwinian terms, "adaptation, selection, blind variation..." The last of these, also known as random mutation, is of course how according to Darwin live organisms obtain the form that allows them to survive. As I tried in other reviews here (and am dealing with fully in my own book), I am presently again trying to convey that this focus on the organism's form stems from a misguided analogy between humanly produced functional artifacts and the functionality of organisms. It was argued in defense of intention in the organism's form that just as man-made artifacts are in their functions produced intentionally by an intelligent designer, so must organisms in their functions be the intentional product of intelligence.

And the dispute is well known to be about whether or not organisms, too, were formed intentionally, by way of a goal-directed process.  

The mistake is that the goal-directedness or its absence is looked for in the wrong area. While there may be difficulties in showing whether organismic forms came about by plan or by accident, there is no difficulty at all in seeing instead that it is the organism's activities that are indeed goal-directed. For this evidence of preponderant goal-directedness in the living--their aim of self-preservation--which stares us straight in the face, there appears to be a complete blind spot. On recognizing this, the consequence is that Darwinism, contending the same aimlessness in organisms as in other natural events, is false. Yet Darwin is doggedly followed in science and praised to high heaven, with the author of the now reviewed book calling him a genius (p.109). Let me accordingly comment briefly on how original is Darwin's thinking.

Inasmuch as natural selection is in essence the environment's influence on the organism, the influence occurring in any case, the main point of Darwin is that organisms become adapted to the environment by accident rather than by aim. And it is obvious that for any chance of that to happen, supposing it possible at all, there must be enormous multitudes of variations as claimed, the thought requiring no new idea.

The subsequent thinking then has had to be preoccupied with seeking explanations of how the wrongly hypothesized chance adaptations occur.
