Overall, this book was terrible.

I will start with the few excellent points this book made:

Many celebrities have horrendous families (3 kids from 3 different men, for example), but this is overlooked while it is practically the only thing people say about poor women (ex: "Welfare Mothers"). The chapter on Welfare Mothers had lots of good points in it-it was worth reading. 

They make the point that parents are too "child-centered" now. It is true that some parents let their kids have way too much control and give them way more material goods and attention than they need. Kids don't really need much of either. However, what these authors are promoting is extremely opposite of "child-centered."

 The marketing of products moms "need" is out of control. Many moms waste money on irrelevant products and really need to be aware of the marketing aimed at them to try to get them to buy tons of junk. You need to be smart about marketing, good point. 

But... then.... the authors make a comment like this: "While it was certainly true that many mothers were looking for toys that were stimulating and compensated for the fact that America still had no national day care or nursery school system, the toy industry always suggested that the new marketing trends were entirely driven by mothers." That's right, it's the lack of national day care that is causing me to become rampantly materialistic! No matter what the problem, these authors will find someone/something to blame it on. 

Now, to all the other things that I did not like about this book (where to start!):

The authors go on and on and on about celebrities and how they are portrayed as perfect mothers and workers. Give me a break. Women have to be smarter than to actually believe this nonsense. Please don't blame People for making you feel guilty as a mother. Celebrities are not even in the same class as the rest of us. They can't even compare their lives to ours. And, if they try, you must know it is a bunch of baloney. If you don't want to read about celebrity babies, don't buy People. Don't watch ET. It's really not hard to avoid if it affects you so much.

Although the authors think pointing to a few isolated daycare incidents is no evidence of problems with childcare (they vehemently defend daycares, even ones that are investigated for crimes against children), they seem eager to make a point that a few other isolated cases- Andrea Yates, Susan Smith, babies in dumpsters- is obviously calling attention to a problem with the new "momism." This is the scapegoat for these women who killed their children. No matter what your parenting problem, the authors have an excuse for you! 

 "Dumb Men, Stupid Choices- Or Why We Have No Childcare:" The authors open with a description of a WWII daycare center. The few that were actually like this were open 24 hours and did your laundry and grocery shopping while you worked, along with meal prep, and taking care of sick children in a special place in the center (which were no doubt this nice because they were a temporary solution for women called from home to do their civic duty). The authors are saying this is what it should be like today...... 

So then the authors go on to bash everyone who doesn't agree with their childcare position. Then they bring out this stat: "By 1995, 75 percent of kids under five were regularly watched by someone other than their parents." They are implying that 75% of women out there need/want government daycare centers. First of all, that statistic is ridiculous. The 75% stat includes part-time moms (which are about ½ of the 75%). Some of these moms work very few hours, other do "split shifts" with their spouse so their children don't have to go to daycare. Many part-time kids are playing with grandma or auntie and cousins. I really doubt these kids would rather be in big, govt. daycare. Now, of the roughly 37% of moms working full-time, the percentage that have to work to make ends meet is very small. If you also look at the preferences of poor women who have to work, they overwhelmingly like home based and relative care for their children-not huge govt. daycare. They also overwhelmingly, if given a choice, would rather stay home and raise their own children. So, the authors of this book are pushing for a childcare system, of enormous cost, that is the least popular option and will serve a minority of working mothers. 

Then this comment, "Many young mothers who need a salary-and, frankly, time away from the kids-feel they have no choice but to quit their jobs, either for the sake of the kids, or because they simply can't afford the childcare near them." Are these authors suggesting that the taxpayers pick up the bill for moms who want to get out of the house and work for fun? It sure sounds like it! 

The authors act like there are no honest women out there who enjoy motherhood. The authors are clearly blinded by their own feelings. I'm really not sure why women like these authors feel a calling to publish books trying to convince the public that happy, fulfilled mothers are a "myth." It's not.

In the chapter: "Dr. Laura's Neighborhood" (and in the rest of this book) we learn that if you are a: man, home-schooling mom (except a few minority who the authors think are OK), attachment parenting mom, Christian, conservative, someone who likes organically grown food, happy mother, a member of the "Greatest Generation," someone who likes decorating, pro-life, breastfeeding mom, mother of multiple babies (they especially like to attack you if you used fertility drugs) or a SAHM-you are NOT approved by these authors! 

These authors are pompous and arrogant, thinking they are the be-all-end-all to judge others. These women are clearly driven by some irrational rage against all other mothers who are not exactly like them. The women who wrote this book are the type that will sneer at you in Traget because your child is crying or having a tantrum. They are the types who would turn the other way and let the door slam in your face when you are trying to get your stroller out an non-automatic door. And watch out if you are on their "most hated" list because you would get the extra-extra dirty look. This book reads like a nasty note you would find on the floor of a high school, written by a girl who is jealous of the girls in another clique.  
