I've always been interested in how different people arrived on this continent.  I picked up Chiasson's book with interest.  I was immediately not impressed with the repetitive writing style; more suitable for middle school readers than adults.  I was intrigued by his exploration but put off by the jumping around between explorers and periods of time.  He may have located these maps (many produced long after the period he was writing about thus a bit irrelevant)in the order of his telling. However, if the story was to convince the reader of the Chinese presence on this continent before Columbus, his rendition was very jumbled.

The maps of Africa he showed were the ones falsified by Menzies. The original map never showed the hump of West Africa. If you head north you can't miss it. The currents drifts are not fast enought to bring the Chinese to these shores so quickly. Chinese navigation was never as sophisticated as Menzies and Chiasson lead you to believe.  

The big unanswered question is why didn't the Chinese reach Europe by sea when they left. Chinese and European traders had already had long contact via the Middle East.  The currents back to china lead to Europe. The answer is they didn't reach Europe because they never came this way.

Chiasson's mountain top appears to really be Kelly Mountain, a well hiked and traveled area on Cape Breton.  Archeologists (sic) viewing the various sites saw nothing of any of his "evidence"--road, wall, 'tiles', platforms.  Even in the book, the two others who travelled to the site made no subsequent attempts to explore the burial plots, photograph or catalog the various sites.  Pointing to pile of rocks and saying smelter can be done by any 6 year old with a vivid imagination.  Likewise, photoshopping aerial photos to highlight shapes is easily done--just look at the faked Beirut photos the Hezbollah gave Reuters.

In short, I think Mr. Chiasson would have had a better tale to tell had he not been beguiled by Menzies.  As an alternative history, this would have made a great fictional story.

Buy the book if you must add it to your collection.  Otherwise, read it in your local library and save some money.
