This book promised to be a well-researched literary biography of J. D. Salinger. I was expecting details of his literary career, including how he went about writing, his dealings with publishers, and his reaction to public and critical response to his work. I only wanted to know the personal details of his life which had a direct bearing on his writing. Mr. Alexander succeeded fairly well in this effort, which is what comprises the first half of this book.

When Mr. Salinger stopped publishing, he became a private citizen. And as such, he deserves the privacy and respect we all desire. Of course, his books (especially Catcher In The Rye) elicited immense curiosity, and there will always be those socially inept and just plain psychotic folks who won't leave it alone. But a "respected" author/journalist such as Paul Alexander should certainly know better.

However, the opening chapter "A Sighting" and the entire last half of this book are the prurient and salacious work of a tabloid hack. "A Sighting" is a very creepy first-person step-by-step account of Mr. Alexander stalking the Salinger estate, and indeed Mr. Salinger himself. He admits to passing several "No Trespassing" signs, stopping, then "...I sat in my car and looked up at his house." Then finally "...I saw a car emerge from a thicket of trees...I focused my attention on the car's driver. I saw who it was- Salinger himself." Yekkkk! I found this account of stalking an old man to be extremely insulting, disrespectful, and repulsive.

The last half of the book is even more disgusting. Mr. Alexander feels that we all need to know in nauseating detail some of the most salacious and embarassing aspects Salinger's private life which occur long after he stopped publishing. None of this tripe is the slightest bit relevant to Salinger's writings, and is deeply insulting to Salinger and his readers. Alexander has the nerve to title one of the late chapters "Stalking Salinger" and to use phrases such as "assult on Salinger's privacy" as if he is being sympathetic to Salinger. What hypocricy! Mr. Alexander has displayed the morals of a salamander. I felt like I needed to take a shower when I finished this "masterpiece".

My advice- if you want to know the relevant facts of Salinger's literary life, find another book or go on the web. There are several informative and RESPECTFUL websites out there. Please don't give Mr. Alexander your money- it will only encourage him
