Having no great fondness for B. F. to begin with, from the little I know of him and his work, I thought I'd give this a try just to see what the Grand Old Man of conditioned rats and pigeons had to say about Utopias.  What kind of Utopia would be imagined by some guy who saw no essential behavioral difference (and presumably no other important difference) between rats and humans?  As I had expected, I had a distinctly uneasy feeling about it well before finishing it-by about p. 60, in fact-but I couldn't clearly define or articulate it.  So, like anyone looking for easy answers, I Googled the book, and the first citation on the page was "A critical review of B.F. Skinner's philosophy, with focus on _Walden Two_", by Edward Rozycki (1999, based on a 1995 article for the journal _Educational Studies_).  And Rozycki made amply clear a few points which seem to have escaped all the raving enthusiasts of the book, such as:

(1) Skinner was a lousy scientist, who explicitly rejected some of the fundamental tenets of the scientific method, such as considering all the observed data.  In the book, Frazier says, "To go to all the trouble of running controls would be to make a fetish of scientific method."  Although Skinner kept telling everyone he was an empiricist and not a theorist, most of his work is basically theory based on what he chose to consider the world to be.  

(2) His "vision" is fundamentally totalitarian (Roz tactfully avoids the term "fascist," but I would not be that polite).  As Frazier says, "Each of us has interests which conflict with the interests of everybody else. ...  Now, `everybody else' we call `society.'  It's a powerful opponent and it always wins."  Substitute "State" for "society" and that's pretty clear totalitarianism.  

(3) The reason everybody in the community is so blissfully happy is that anyone who is not blissfully happy is made to feel unwelcome by the community and subtly cold-shouldered out.  About anyone who is "incorrigible," Frazier says that "it's more likely that he would long since have gone of his own accord."  As Rosycki dryly notes, "The point is not elaborated on."  I don't think it needs to be.

So, given my impression that Skinner's starry-eyed Utopian vision of a "culturally engineered" bliss of humanoid pigeons is one of the most terrifying things I've read since the daily news, I fail to see why everyone seems to think it's so wonderful.  I think it's a dreadful vision, just as dystopic, in its sinister way, as _Brave New World_.  And it's a boring read to boot
