Before I gripe, let me tell you this. Overall this CD Question software is by far the most widely used by students attempting to get their PMP Certification. A lot of people pass the exam after having used this CD.

Here are my issues with CD:

a. Installation is a pain: They have added very tight security measures to prevent copyright infringement. What this has done is made it extremely difficult for people who bought the software legally (and paid a boat load of money $234-$299) to install it on their machines. I am a computer savvy guy and it took me over 2 days to get this installed. I was 10 days away from taking the exam and I wasted two days because of the installation issue.

b. Customer Support is very bad: Their CSRs are rude and exteremly unhelpful. Their Customer Support hours of operation are 9-5 M-F. So if you are trying to get help installing the software after office hours you are out of luck. Even when do they contact you, you get the feeling they are talking to a criminal who has stolen their software and is trying to get it installed for free. All this after having paid $234- $299 for the CD. 

c. The quality of the questions are not bad. But there are a lot of repeat questions. I did about 700 questions and by the time I took the 3rd PMP practice exam there were about 40% repeat questions. On the day of the exam I did 50 questions and 45 of them were ones I saw before. Many of the questions, I didnt even have to read through them thoroughly and I still got them all right. So watch out for that.

I would strongly suggest using multiple sources for questions, so u dont get used to one style such as Rita's. The PMP exam is a little different in style in the way the questions are worded.

There are other sources for questions that are cheaper and have better customer service such as Crosswind. One of my friend is using them and I have seen the questions and they are fairly good. Its new, so its not all that tried and tested. My friend hasnt taken his exam yet.

Again to be fair, I did use this CD and it helped me pass the exam. I am giving this software a rating of 2 due to the installation issues and the high cost of the software. At this cost I expect exceptional custmer service and care and seemless installation (while protecting the companys copyright concerns)
