Anita Shapira's New Republic essay, "The Past is Not a Foreign Country," (online) decimates this book. Adding to Efraim Karsh's 1996 study (Fabricating Israeli History), she reminds readers that Morris failed to reply. He ignored 50 Karsh references to his own work, Avi Shlaim, primary sources and major historical and journalistic studies. 

In this work, Morris ironically refers to many of Karsh's sources, but nevertheless arrives at incorrect conclusions. The book is thus a politically charged revision of the Israeli-Arab conflict covering the pre-1948 through the history of Arab wars on Israel. The book shows culprits and casualties, and blames Arab regimes for violent incursions into Israel in the 1950s, for the secret war between Israel and terrorist groups, for Naser's threat to Israel before the Sinai and Six-Day wars, and for many Arab calls for Israel's destruction. Morris even notes that Israel's West Bank and Gaza rule "was never as restrictive or repressive as the Palestinians made out." 

One big problem is Morris' large reliance on Israeli and secondary sources. He consults only a few primary Arab documents (and those, only in English translation), thus all but ignoring available Arab memoirs and state files. Oddly, Morris exploits every Israeli contingency plan and idea as conclusive evidence of Zionist expansionism, but ignores Arab plans for a "Greater Syria" as well as King Hussein's designs. 

Another is Morris' exclusion of regional effects of the cold war, and Soviet arms that poured into Egypt, Lebanon, Syria and other Arab states, worsening Arab-Israeli relations from the 1950s on. In short, Morris ignores the fact that the opportunity for Arab-Israeli peace opened up only following the collapse of the Soviet Union, which left Arab hard-liners without support for their traditional rejections. 

Worse, Morris misconstrues the notorious topic of " transfer," a term commonly used between the two world wars to describe population exchanges like that between Turkey and Greece in the 1920s. In his first work on that topic, Morris rightly concluded that the "Palestinian refugee problem was born of war, not by design, Jewish or Arab," but was (rather) a by-product of both people's fears and the protracted, bitter fighting of the first Arab-Israeli war. But that conclusion provoked attacks from Arab historians and Israeli revisionists. 

Whatever the reason, Morris in this book reverses his earlier conclusion, standing history on its head. He makes effect into cause, and falsely translates the results of war into a paradigm for Arab-Jewish relations. He writes, "fear of territorial displacement and dispossession was to be the chief motor of Arab antagonism to Zionism down to 1948 (and indeed after 1967 as well)." 

This reading libels Zionism and its foundations. 

Actually, the Peel Commission first proposed, in 1937, to transfer the Arab minority from territory designated for the tiny Jewish state as part of a planned partition of western Palestine into Jewish and Arab states. Morris presumes that Zionist leaders "played a role in persuading the Peel Commission to adopt the transfer solution." But he provides zero proof. 

In fact, Ben-Gurion welcomed the British idea only to persuade Zionists to accept a tiny Jewish state (and the proposed partition)--but also warned of its inherent dangers. Furthermore, Zionist leaders believed that a Jewish majority would come from massive immigration, and that Western Palestine could accommodate millions of Jews and Arabs. History proved them right on that score, although the peace they expected remains ever-elusive.

The Arabs initiated war in 1948 in preference to accepting a Jewish state--and thought they could win. And everywhere they prevailed, Arabs expelled every last Jew. Benny Morris should get real.

--Alyssa A. Lappe
