It's hard to know where to begin when talking about this sensationalistic tabloid-like book.  On the one hand, not everything is a lie, exaggeration, urban legend, or told in a gleefully sensationalistic manner, and there are good pictures, but those aspects are really overwhelmed by how much of the book just isn't true.  It's uncertain just what propelled Kenneth Anger (who has a very fitting surname) to write this book; was it the fact he was bitter that his own Hollywood career never came to anything much, a general dislike of most of the stars from Hollywood's Golden Age, a love of sensational gossip in general, or something else?  He's a writer of the same caliber as an Albert Goldman or Geoffrey Giuliano and their own celebrity biographies--it's been shown that most of what they've written just isn't true and has no basis in factual evidence and has never been proven, so you have to doubt everything they write, even if some passages are true or written in a respectful manner.  He's like the boy who cried wolf.  Although amazingly quite a few people believe all of the stories in this book and they're now regularly discussed like they actually happened and are absolute fact, even though they're the results of speculation, urban legends that have been disproven yet just won't go away because of books like this, and are outright lies and character assassinations.

Just because I'm a fan of many of the celebrities from Old Hollywood doesn't mean I'm incapable of accepting that some of them did have less than perfect lives, personal scandals, and were the complete opposite of their screen personalities.  But by and large, with certain exceptions, the stars of that era were classy, keeping their personal and private lives separate.  Even if they did have, say, problems with alcohol, sleeping around, or drug abuse, they still presented positive public images and role models of class, grace, and style.  It wasn't like today, when people seem to know just about every detail of a celebrity's private life.  Does Anger somehow feel that celebrities of yore were more prone to scandal and devastating problems?  And why does anyone want to know some of these sleazy details, like about someone dying on the toilet?  Are we supposed to suddenly no longer like this person's body of work?  Even some celebrity biographies that do report events of this nature at least balance it out with just as much positive information and a respectful tone, instead of taking delight in tearing down reputations.  It would seem baffling as to why people now take some of these stories as accepted facts, no matter how many times they've been disproven, but again, it seems to be human nature to believe the bad and not the good. 
