McLaren lays out 13 practices for transforming the church as it "crosses over to the other side" into a postmodern world.  They include (1) "maximizing discontinuity" to motivate the church for dramatic change; (2) "redefining the church's mission" in terms of more and better Christians joined together in a missional community for the good of the world; (3) "exercising systems thinking" in pursuit of the church's revised mission; (4) "trading up traditions for tradition" to escape narrow sectarianism in favor of the broader Christian heritage; (5) "resurrecting theology as art and science" as a discipline that is never really complete; (6) "designing a new apologetic" in terms of truth-seeking rather than truth-possessing; (7) "learning a new rhetoric" of softer, simpler language devoid of jargon and backed up by a lived faith; (8) "abandon structures" as permanent arrangements; (9) "saving the leaders" for their worth and work; (10) "subsuming missions in mission" in response to the crisis within missions; (11) "looking ahead, farther ahead" instead of the past; (12) "entering the postmodern world" to understand it, engage it, and exploit it for Christ; and (13) "adding to the list" as a community of life-long learners.  

COMMENTS:

McLaren talks about four levels of change (knowledge, attitude, behavior, and organization) and then adds a fifth that comprehends the need for all four at one.  In this respect and more, he often uses the language of enterprise transformation.  Not surprisingly, all of McLaren's "practices" have analogs in secular literature on organizational change.  McLaren's "maximize discontinuity," for example, is a transformation tactic.  "Redefining mission" is another way of talking about vision.  "Systems thinking" acknowledges the interdependency problem in transformation.  "Trading up traditions" correlates well to the problem of globalization.  Five of McLaren's practices address problems of organizational and market adaptation: (1) "resurrecting theology as art and science," (2) "abandoning structures," (3) "looking ahead," (4) "entering the postmodern world," and "adding to the list."  "Designing a new apologetic" and "learning a new rhetoric" have overtones of marketing and sales.   "Saving the leaders" preserves needed leadership.  "Subsuming missions in mission" is itself a transformation initiative.  

McLaren argues and illustrates the preceding "practices" strenuously but not always effectively.  Even sympathetic readers will be "un-sold" or at least distracted by some of McLaren's illustrations and arguments.  For example, McLaren associates the church with U.S. national guilt on one hand and then denies the U.S. was ever a Christian nation on the other.  How can both be true?  He argues humanity is interconnected-- "that aerosol spray can in Kansas can help rift the ozone layer in Antarctica"-- but the illustration fails.  Chlorofluorocarbons were banned in the U.S. back in 1978.  In general, McLaren's couches his concerns for social and economic justice in a liberal-sounding rhetoric that many readers will find off-putting and unconvincing.  

Perhaps the most telling of McLaren's illustrations is the one about his conversation with a new Christian who was concerned her beliefs about Jesus were different from those of her fellow church members.  The church members were saying those who do not believe in Jesus are lost.  She, however, had close, non-Christian friends who would abandon her if she were to express that kind of opinion.  The obvious observation was, "Jesus had the very same problem-- maybe here is a chance to really know Jesus"-- but McLaren implies the need for something more indirect, more sensitive.  

In general, McLaren's arguments and illustrations draw heavily on what many would characterize as the "criminal histories" of Christianity, the church, and Western civilization.  For example, McLaren disparages "my own country" for its "subjugation of another race," when a fairer interpretation would recognize Western civilization's remarkable record on slavery-- a record of ending slavery, not inventing it.  He criticizes Columbus for bringing "conquistadors" to the New World, but Columbus sailed west because Muslim conquests had shut Europeans out of the Mediterranean.  

McLaren's prescriptions for transforming the church include some good points, but his overall program is incoherent.  McLaren takes a prophetic stance in diagnosing and treating the church's problems while embracing a philosophy that denies such stances are even possible.  The church, he claims, is dying because it is stuck decades or even centuries in the past.  What is McLaren's solution?  Focus on concerns that are decades or even centuries into the future.  The church is allegedly irrelevant in its preoccupation with minutiae and esoterica.  What is McLaren's solution?  Focus on global concerns that are beyond the control and even understanding of most human beings.  Christian apologetics are too defensive, too reactive McLaren says-- no, they are too combative he opines in the next paragraph.  He cautions about making sweeping and uncharitable generalizations about others, yet he makes his case against the church by doing just that.  He says Christians must stop "comparing their worst with our best;" but again, that is one of his tactics in bashing the church.  He assumes self-restraint by saying it is easy to bash the church-- but apparently without much self-awareness.  

McLaren's vision of a model congregation would have it rotating through "Quaker-style spiritual enrichment" to "Brethren-style communion" to "Willow-Creek-style seeker service" to "charismatic Episcopalian healing service" to a "Benedictine Monastery" and on and on.  But variety is not a substitute for substance.  Rather, it exemplifies the problem of postmodern superficiality.   Yet ironically, it is one of McLaren's solutions to the alleged shallowness of the present-day church.    

Systems theory provides an insightful way to avoid McLaren's incoherence.  Culture is not neutral.  Rather, it is the embodiment of humanity's alienation from God.  Multiculturalism does not diminish the alienation.  Instead, it turns up the volume.   McLaren rightly responds to the volume, but he does so uncritically.  The result is a careless triangulation of the church into the alienated relationship between God and unrepentant humanity-- a careless triangulation that leaves important questions unanswered.  How much anxiety, for example, is the church supposed to absorb in the triangulation.  McLaren and postmodernists seem intent on pushing it all onto the church.  Thus, the church is subjected to unrelenting criticisms and calls for sweeping change.  A better alternative is for the church to give the anxiety back-- to exert a non-anxious presence-- to increase, rather than relieve, the tension between God and unbelieving humanity by upholding traditional biblical truth claims.  

Postmodernism is best understood as the third stage of a downward spiral in humanity's alienation from God.  The church was triangled-- became the "identified patient"-- in the first two stages.  It appears to be headed for the same fate with respect to postmodernism if key leaders, such as McLaren, insist on "privileging" rather than challenging postmodern defense mechanisms.  Instead of enmeshing itself in a "stuck" relationship with postmodernism, a better alternative for the church would be to increase its differentiation from culture-- not reduce it.    

Bill Brewer
http://historeo.com
