Let me preface my review by saying, I am not a sociologist. Perhaps that's why I found this rambling 580-page tome oblique. I was looking for useful information, but found myself wading through what stuck me as an idiosyncratic theoretician's first draft, or perhaps a compilation from an obsessive sociologist's notepad. I would characterize the work as rambling, disorganized, stream-of-consciousness, anecdotal, and vainly self-aware; a how-smart-am-I, how-heavy-is-my-book showpiece for fellow academics. I realize this angers Goffman worshippers; so be it. Your emperor is scantily clad. It's not in the least bit empirical--Goffman offers theory based on anecdotes, some humorous, but at the end of the day, it's still just anecdotal information. Sociologyman's knee-jerk defense of Goffman calls his work "empirical," and perhaps this is what passes for empiricism in Sociology, but the rest of us wouldn't recognize it as such. We really should demand more from the social sciences. This book is something to add ballast to your library shelf, but not to read unless your goal is to impress other Sociologists at dinner parties. A few of my favorite lines: "Bitinglike behavior occurs, but no one is seriously bitten. In brief, there is a transcription or transposition--a transformation in the geometrical, not the Chomskyan sense--of a strip of fighting behavior into a strip of play." Or how about: "Drawing loosely on a particular imagery, it was said that the main track carrying the story line was associated with a disattend track, the two tracks playing simultaneously. Now a second stream of out-of-frame activity must be considered, this one even more consequential, perhaps, for the main activity than the first, yet nonetheless--to a degree--kept out of focus." Is this brilliant or befuddled? It's brilliantly befuddled. If you like reading this sort of stuff, and have lots of free time, by all means go for it. If you're trying to educate yourself, there are certainly more efficient texts. My low rating is based on my irritation factor, given the ratio of time invested to insights gleaned
