I decided to pick this book up when I was waiting for my movie to start. I have read book after book after book from the black political left, and so when I saw this guy's book, I decided to pick it up. See, I saw him on HBO debating against Dame Dash about hip hop, but I caught the tail end. I must admit that I did pass judgement on his "blackness" based solely on his demeanor and speech pattern (not his syntax, but pattern/accent.) But I said to myself that this couldn't be right. I'm not too far off myself, being a california black academic who was always told he "spoke white". So I got "Authentically Black", as Loosing the Race was not there and I was therefore unaware of it. 

QUESTION: Why is it that in Liberal California, these negroes feel an overwhelming need to be conservative for no damn reason??!? I figured that if I read this guy's work, SOMETHING WILL MAKE SENSE and help give my own leftist vies some sort of perspective. Sorry, no. This man has me academically by 15 years (him finishing college in the mid eighties, me finishing Morehouse in the late nineties) and you'd think that in that time, he'd know how to research things or at least observe society and his own surroundings. As I try to read through this work, trying to give him the benefit of the doubt at every page-turn, he never ceases to amaze me. On page 28, I was forced to grab my pen and fill the pages with ink, which upset me because I didn't spend this money to have to correct someone who just by sheer numbers should be my academic superior. But on page 28 I just could not take it, where he says that profiling is necessary to protect the black community. He makes the self-defeatist presumption that it must be okay because it is the little black boys who are pushing the drugs. OF COURSE IT IS, that's all who's there. That still doesn't explain why I get hustled by cops all over Southern California and profiled for the same thing, though I'm an attorney and damn near thirty! It also doesn't take into account the complexion of the people who are the real problem. Id suggest he sit down with congresswoman waters, but judging by his books and how he almost lies about some other author's intentions and efforts, he'd probably be so rude to her in presuming her stance that she'd slap him. (Or at least want to. I've met with her on many occasions.) He'd likely call her an opportunist and move on. 
He also has the habbit of "supporting" his ludicrous points by noting two or three bad examples from his conversations with students. Usually, he'll say things like "I asked black people xyz and they are left without an answer" or "such and such happened and they chalked it up to racism, when it clearly was not, but so and so was so upset by it!" Some girl was waiting for a bus and a man dropped a quarter in her cup assuming she was homeless, or so she presumed and she was distraught. Okay, citing the overly dramatic black girl is not going to bolster your points, but makes one wonder how weak your point is that you have to (a) ask idiots questions about race, and (b) use the worst examples available as proof. Time and again he asks idiots. 
Speaking as a man born and raised in the Bay Area in the community around where this man works and lives as one of "those kind of people", I can't help but to feel this man is just trying too hard to fit in, and it is not entirely rare in Bay Area black politics. He uses the propensity of negroes in that area to be able to get any kind of white woman they want as a sign that race relations are getting better, disregarding the fact that it's always black men and white women. I have yet to determine his propensity, but if I were a betting man, I would be able to pay back my loans and a housenote wagering on HIS desires for white women, which would not surprise me. 

But enough of this point by point dismantling of his views. I'll do that as I prepare to write my work about the black political left using the dismantling of the works of black conservatives as a conduit through which to do so. Potential names are "Negrodicious Tendacies" or "You're Just Not Like The Others!" or "Why Are All the Black Professors Left Sitting By They Gyatdayum Self??!?" Instead, let us look at te most offensive premise of this man's "work":

Blacks are self-proclaimed victims in a world wherein racism is merely "residual", but keep up the image of victimology to make whites feel guilty so that they can give us - wait for it - hand outs and social programs. Guess what: I agree we as Blacks will die of starvation if we wait for the Larger Society to give us what we are either OWED or are EARNED (for nothing is a "HAND OUT" in america, you will always pay for it somehow if not already). But what planet did he grow up on wherein Blacks in private talk about how good they have it? I grew up almost exclusively around black professionals and millionaires amidst links, boules, masons and Jack & Jillers, and even WITH all the success and money in the world, the majority view - yes, even in N. California - was that things were worse. No, this is not just some act to make whites feel guilty and give us stuff, because none of us needed white hand outs. We already had money. In fact, we knew that problems were severe, because in no way could we buy our way out of racial problems. My father had to budget in time for being pulled over by cops whenever he left to go somewhere due largely to his fondness for expensive german engineering. Let us not get into the racism we as a people face in Law Offices and Medical Offices and Corporate America day in and day out. This cat needs to get out of the office, Turn on some Boots Riley and just look around at his people. Maybe sit and talk with them. We're not as stupid as he thinks, even though we came from the less intelligent and civilized west africans of which he speaks. Maybe he might want to check out a little something about Afrikan history. You know, since he's at one of the biggest UNIVERSITIES ON THE PLANET! I'm sure he can find a book or two on the subject that he can breeze through in a couple days. Maybe a Van Sertima here, a Yochanan there, garnished with som Diop and Mwalimu Baruti. I won't tell him about Marimba Ani. He may run and start protecting his beautiful white women...

For a more academic/less ad hominem review, wait for the book. There will also be a rap soundtrack made for it. I got Ward Connerly and Shelby Steele harmonizing on the hook..
