I'm currently in the middle of my physics course with this book, and I find I am continually frustrated.  I happened across a fourth edition of the same book, and am absolutely amazed at the difference in clarity.  The newest author, Jewett, has systematically gone through each and every chapter of the book and editted each to ensure a complete lack of clarity and sense.  I am wholly impressed with Raymond Serway's book, but am completely frustrated at Jewett's insistence on cluttering simple straightforward ideas with jargon.  I'll agree that some jargon is unavoidable, but while learning a topic I find it only hurts my understanding of the topic.

To wit:

"Physically, the reason for large-amplitude oscillations at the resonance frequencey is that energy is being transferred to the system under the most favorable conditions.  This can be better understood by taking the first time derivative of x, which gives an expression for the velocity of the oscillator.  In doing so, one finds that v is proportional to sin(wt+o) [note: no access to greek symbols here, sorry].  When the applied force is in phase with the velocity, the rate at which work is done on the oscillator by the force F (or the power) equals Fv.  Since the quantity Fv is always positive when F and v are in phase, we conclude that at resonance the applied force is in phase with the velocity and the power transferred to the oscillator is a maximum."

versus:
"The reason for large-amplitude oscillations at the resonance frequency is that energy is being transferred to the system under the most favorable conditions.  We can better understand this by taking the first time derivative of x in equation 15.35, which gives an expression for the velocity of the oscillator.  We find that v is proportional to sin(wt+o), which is the same trigonometric function as that describing the driving force.  Thus, the applied force F is in phase with the velocity.  The rate at which work is done on the oscillator by F equals the dot product F*v; this rate is the power delivered to the oscillator.  Because the product f*v is a maximum when F and v are in phase, we conclude that at resonance the applied force is in phase with the velocity and the power transferred to the oscillator is a maximum."

I'll let you guess which one is from the newest edition.  My opinion?  If you have to use this text, make sure you find an older copy, and bug other students for the homework problems.  You'll more than make up the effort in the learning curve
