This is a very terrible text book. Don't ever look at this book if you are a newbie in OpenGL, trigonometry, calculus, linear algebra and the mathematic's dot product. I think this book is suitable only for the University which the author is lecturing in. My university is using this book as the core text book of the computer graphic course, the end result is that almost 95% of the student cannot code well using OpenGL by following guidance of this book, where everyone is looking for coding and references from Internet just for the assignment, how annoy it is. Further, the lecturer also cannot understand the book's content, they lecture only by using the powerpoint slaid which is from the author himself, which make the situation worst.

If I am not mistaken, the author has claimed that the book is to help the student to program graphics as soon possible using OpenGL. It is absolutely not the true. This book will lead you to hell if you don't prepare yourself well in C/C++ and of course, OpenGL API. And if your lecturer does not know well in OpenGL API or C/C++ as mentioned, may God bless you. Another thing, if you look at the exercises of each chapter, I wonder if anyone who is beginner in computer graphics and by solely depend on the book can solve the problems.

Anyhow, I rate the book one star do not mean that this book is not a good book. To my opinion, this is absolutely a good book for those who have very strong computer graphic background together with mathematic skills or those who are advance learner in this field. 

In fourth edition, I really hope that the author will come out something such as 'International Edition' of this book which the content may vary from the original version. This is because the computer science syllabus may vary from country to country. Bear in mind that the Top-down approach is suitable well in author's University or country does not mean that it is suitable to other University or country. This is what I mean the book is suitable only for the university or college that the author is lecturing in.

Remember, buy this book only if you already well-prepared yourself in C/C++, OpenGL API, trigonometry, linear algebra, geometry and some calculus basic
