After quite a while I finally put the time into reading this book and I am totally ambivalent whether I should have or not...I do not think that one should pay too much attention to those readers who do not take their history seriously, to those that want to propound a certain ideological agenda -- something I am realising has been,and is, a depressing fact of American socialisation. Those people of the ideological left will love this book and the those of the ideological right will hate it.... that is a given. 

My question is this: What does Zinn have to say for the non-ideological historian? For the thinking and well considered historian, the person who well distilled in classic debates of history and the role of people, power and groups (classes?) in the grand scheme of things? What does Zinn have to say for those who were raised with a university education where the primary goal was to "display an adequate overview of all major acceptable views, and to show a mature understanding of those views?" -- not to argue just one side. American historiography has a broad tendency to degenerate into opposite truth camps of the right and left, mindlessly shouting out statistics, citing dates, supporting and dashing administrations to try to make a point. The entire pursuit of knowledge has been subverted by a kind of default to crude rhetoric for rhetoric's sake (see any American news programme or most prime-time columnists), and purile debate. Other countries and cultures shake their heads at such perversion of the whole idea of the way Americans understand history.  

So do historians such as Zinn add to this atrophy of the brain or do they ammeliorate it? I am not so sure I know the answer. I am thinking that his whole style may betray an answer. Zinn's "radical" style is deliberately unbalanced, he makes no apologies for this, it is an attempt to right the largely unbalanced scales of history written by dominant elites, those who have and hold the power. This is a worthy ideal, but I am not so sure that a descriptive litany of abuse by those with power really says that much about an accurate interpretation of history. And if it does not, then what are people actually taking away from this book...?

Anyone who reads history, and I mean people who read a lot of history, will find Zinn to be more than just unbalanced, they will find him to be simplistic. I was caught up in his light drama (he writes well), in the same way as one reads a comic book... and then it dawned upon me... Zinn (like a left-wing version of Fox News reporting) writes as if history were a comic book. All evil on one side and all deprived and down trodden masses on by the other. For the considerate person looking for a higher understanding there will be an amazing sense of dissatisfaction, a feeling of being swindled. If one is trying to achieve social justice, there is a feeling of being swindled. 

That may not be flattering for Mr. Zinn, but I got the distinct feeling that one was dealing with a light-weight in the area of history (some of his research is hard to check, he does not cite pages, and I sometimes wonder if he ever cracked an economic history textbook). He certainly would not be considered up there with the grand old man Hobsbawm (who is truly an intellectual joy to read -- and a leftist with common sense!!), or Lukas(another leftist) in his great tour-de-force "Big Trouble: A Study of Class in America." Zinn does not even rate compared with these historians. 

So the question I return to is this.... for the considerate person of history, what does one get from this read? My conclusion is that besides some interesting vignettes on American inhumanity to man, or American inhumanity to American -- not much...Even if American history is imbalanced because the "majority" or mainstream history does not pay heed to the downtrodden, meeting diatribe with diatribe is neither a worthy nor reasonable approach -- moreover it is intellectually dishonest. Being biased, for whatever reason, is not something that historians, scientists, or social theoritst should TRY to be... 

Historians must try to grasp a modicum of understanding through the haze of sources and alternative viewpoints. They must neither be hoodwinked by the codswallop of postmodernism or the absolute truth "certainty" of various right-wing historians. That is the challenge for the historian -- indeed it is the challenge for any thinking human being. If one wants to write comics that is a worthy endevour -- it is not however history. For a man of his age, he should know better!

*If you are thinking of reading this I would say that his writing style and capturing the drama is rather good, despite the fact that his sources (from the little I was able to check) are horrible. 
