When I saw this book I immediately went to the index to see what the author had to say about Lt. Col. Dave Grossman's book "On Killing" which looks at military training methods and compares them to the _current_ video games some kids (males for the most part) play today.

Considering the fact that "On Killing," which was published years before this, is perhaps one of the strongest opposing arguments against the author's thesis I expected a lengthy response.  The author wrote less than a half page.(!) The author contends that Grossman is wrong because the military is a controlled environment whereas video games are not.  That's it.  That's his refutation of an entire text and argument in opposition to his.

The idea that one needs a controlled environment to create violence in humans is just nonsensical.  Sociological factors that influence behavior are everywhere, from the behavior of males and females to how people of different cultures act and dress.  None of it is a "controlled environment."  Only a moron or an intellectually dishonest person would dismiss the impact of this sociological phenomena with such a quick brush.

The author's dishonesty is quite obvious by the use of the image on the front cover.  A kid from the 1950s or 60s with a toy play gun.  Innocent, silly, and yes, a little violent.  American boys have been doing this for generations.  They'll even use sticks form the woods to simulate a gun.  But a stick gun (or a plastic ray gun) is not the same as modern video games.

I grew up on Nintendo - Legend of Zelda, Super Mario Brothers, etc.  Some violence, yes, but nothing compared to what we have today.  Modern video games show with absolute detail the death and distruction of human beings in completey gorey detail.  Spurting blood, screams, mayhem. There is no comparison between these games and _anything_ in previous human history.  When we were kids out in the woods and "shot" each other no one's guts spilled open and our heads didn't explode.  But that is what we have with many modern games.  What we have is nothing less than a mass experiment in human behavior with our young children (mostly boys) as the test subjects.  For the author to dismiss - and use such faulty examples - is not just dishonest.  It's irresponsible.

The only point I would agree with the author is the general tendency to over react to all forms of expressed violence.  There are some people who want to censor it all, whether it be the stick guns in the woods or the playing of all video games.  Perhaps that's where the author was coming from.  Maybe he saw this silliness and had to respond.  But his reaction to the zealotry of others appears to have just brought out his own.

The cold hard truth is that there is strong evidence to suggest that some video games create violent behavior in some children, especially males.  This is not to suggest all children or all games.  Rather, the games do contribute do have a cause effect on certain children.  While this is no defense for sweeping censorhsip of the games, it is also doesn't defend the idea of mass availability.  In the end we have to ask ourselves: Do we _want_ our kids playing these games that are so different than what we all (and most of humanity throughout history!) were raised on and show such disregard for human life?  

The question isn't just whether or not these games have a negative effect.  The question is, what good are they?  Given that we've never seen games like this, we don't know. 
