This book at least had the redeeming quality of letting me know what not to do if I ever get laid off again (its already happened twice).  Networking with other unemployed individuals - a waste of time.  Resume polishing - get a book for $10 and do what it says.  This woman spent thousands of dollars and almost a year looking for a job with coaches and networking sessions (with other unemployed individuals!!).  She thought her problems might be related to her age or some other reason not her fault.  How about her work experience?  How about her skill set?  If you are looking for a job in a field where there aren't many available, then you might need to develop new skills.  I was 40 and had spent 6 years at home with my kids when I decided to go back to work.  I got 2 interviews and one job offer, which I accepted and was at work 6 weeks after starting my search. Due to being in a consolidating industry (banking) and to my lengthy time at home, I had only one reference from my previous jobs.  In 2001 I was laid off when my job was moved out of town, but I had a new one long before my severance checks ended.

The corporate world is very different from the writing world.  Barbara Ehrenreich is probably fine being a writer, but her comments make me believe that she would be a very poor participant in the corporate world.  Her comments about some of her fellow jobseekers were curious - didn't she realize that the woman who continued to wear suits to work into an environment where they were not considered appropriate & got fired for it, probably had a hard time getting a decent job because she did not take the clues around her about how to behave?   Her condescending attitude towards corporations is ridiculous.  She uses a computer, flies on planes, stays in hotels, visits Starbucks - all corporations that provide useful products & services and employment for millions.  They're not perfect, but neither are writers.  There are plenty of bad writers, just as there are some bad apple corporations. 

Unemployment can be a problem as you get older.  My husband was laid off after 30 years at his (failing) company, but even at his age he was able to find a job before severance and unemployment ran out.  It wasn't easy but if you develop skills that are marketable (and PR may not be) and you are looking in an area with a good economy, then it is not impossible. 
