I don't consider myself to be a total idiot. I've read a little psychology, a lot of philosophy, quite a bit of mythology, and have a fair grasp of history. At the same time, I'm also open to what today we call "New Age" or "occult" even if I am always going to be a bit of a skeptic. None of that really helped here. Ever read a paragraph and realize that you didn't really get what you just read? This might happen if you're tired, or lose your focus for a minute. Then you go back and re-read it and it makes more sense. Well, The Portable Jung reads like that initial scenario for me from start to finish, no matter how focused I am. The thing is, when I read a summary of Jung's ideas from another writer, I understand exactly what is being said. The collective unconscious,anima/animus, the shadow...it makes sense. Then I read Jung's own writing and can't connect the sentences. My grandmother says it just must be "bad writing." I don't know. Maybe Jung sensed in his own time the hostility and ultimate rejection of his ideas by the scientific community and always wrote and spoke that way to avoid the ridicule that plainer speaking of such unorthodox subject matter would provoke. (Wow, multiply the awkwardness of that sentence by 10 and you'd think I was channeling the spirit of ol' Gustav). Ironically, Jung has pretty much been ditched by the psychological community and embraced by English majors, such as myself, who would receive the written equivalent of a scowl from our professors if we ever wrote with the pretentiousness and virtually alien syntax of this book. Anyway, I worked and worked at appreciating The Portable Jung, reading as carefully as possible. I really wanted to like it. But first I needed to understand what I was reading sentence by sentence. I never did (however, the reasoning, when the clouds occasionally parted, seems to be pretty much what you'd expect from anyone trying to justify what is essentially parapsychology. Check out the references to the 300-something "random" interpretations of a patient's dreams, which, ta-da, remarkably revolve around the idea of alchemy and an Asiatic symbol called a mandala). 2 stars, though, since I did start keep track of my dreams a bit more (however I have concluded that a recent dream involving rollerskating had more to a movie preview I saw the day before of "ATL" rather than the Wheel Of Life).
