About a year ago (March 14, 2004), I reviewed Phillip Johnon's "Reason in the Balance," which I thought was a decent (3 stars) book. Of all the proponents of intelligent design, I find him the most respectful and thoughtful. That is why it is a shame that this book was such a dead flop. 

Johnson starts out by chastising evolutionists for abandoning the rule that reason is to be a neutral faculty - that evolutionists defend a conclusion they like without respect to evidence, instead of following evidence wherever it may go regardless of where it leads. He thinks evolutionists have been doing the former while he claims to doing the latter. I don't know about that. 

Much of the book, for instance, is to do with a supposed problem evolution has with explaining how evolution increases genetic information in subsequent mutations. While Johnson means to point out a flaw in evolution, he only betrays how misunderstanding he is on how evolution works. Evolution DOESN'T add information to subsequent genomes (as one would add new sentences to a book). Rather, evolution tweaks and changes information already there in one organism to new information in its offspring (like changing a words in an already existing sentence by replacing one letter at a time with another, until a new word appears.) The fact that Johnson seems oblivious to this should be nothing short of embarassing to those whose views he represents. 

Another rhetorical shift he uses is to imply that there is a rift in science about whether macroevolution even occurs. As 'evidence' he uses the debate between scientists like Dawkins and Wilson and scientists like Margullis and Gould. Of course, what Johnson avoids disclosing is that none of these scientsits do (or did) doubt the occurence of macroevolution! They only debate HOW it happened - whether by gradual adaptation of punctuated equilibria theory (i.e., by gradual modification over time or sudden large changes). Either Johnson was unaware of what this debate was actually about (in which case he has no grasp of elementary scientific literature) or he simply wanted to portray the deabate as something it wasn't by shiftily leaving out relevent details and context. I think it is the latter. 

If that wasn't enough, Johnson also gets into questioning certain characters integrity for no apparent reason (other than that they do not agree with him). First up, academic Philip Wentworth. Johnson "analyzes" an essay Wentworth wrote about how his higher education at Harvard was accompanied by a loss of faith. Wentworth attributes this to education, which forced him to question his beliefs according to evidence. Johnson's reply? Hogwash! Wentworth was just insincere in his faith to begin with (otherwise, he wouldn't have lost his faith. 

Next up? Paul Davies - a scientist who posits something akin to a goal directed evolution. Johnson recounts, though, how when asked, Davies disavowed supernaturalism and intelligent design theory. Johnson's reply? Hogwash! The disavowal is insincere! Davies is just scared to come out against the scientific community. 

(Read: these authors, who disagree with me, can't be sincere. How do I know? Because if they were sincere, they'd agree with me. And as they don't, they can't be sincere!)

Lastly, Johnson attacks science for making an assumption of naturalism. But towards the end of the book, Johnson suggests that we restart our inquiry into the origins of life by 'starting with The Word." Of course, doing that makes HUGE assumptions of a kind far more egregious than science's assumption of naturalism. It assumes (a) that God does (not might) exist, and (b) that the Bible (authorship unconfirmed, of course) is an accurate source of info about God (as opposed to the Koran, the Bhagvat Gita, or the Book of Mormon). How Johnson can excoriate science for making an assumption of naturalism while suggesting that it would be alright to 'begin with The Word' and assume (a) and (b), is beyond me. 

I must reiterate that I have enjoyed several of Johnson's books in the past, and am on his side when it comse to thinking that science has conflated the idea of sceince with the philosophy of naturalism. But this book is just bad, and I can't help but think that were I on Johnson's side of the debate over evolution (fortunately I'm not), I would be thoroughly embarassed by his scientific illiteracy.
