I really wanted to like this book.  It was Naisbitt's "Megatrends", and Peters' "In Search Of Excellence" that had initially turned me on to business/culture books that provoked interest and thought and dialogue, and helped develop personal growth.

There is just so much to learn from someone as distinguished and experienced as John Naisbitt.  In fact, Mr. Naisbitt does take his readers on a global tour as attendees of his speeches and meetings.  And yet, there is something missing that (at least for me) created a sense of ennui and paragraph skipping.  At one point I felt so guilty that I was not giving the book a fair enough shot, I decided to begin anew and retrace the first 76 pages to revive my personal mind set.  It still didn't happen for me.

For one thing, the book is a bit confusing.  The majority of the book involves a description of 11 "mind sets" on which readers could evaluate past, present and future events.  Fair enough.  But the eleven mind sets were not especially insightful (e.g., Focus on the score of the game, Resistance to change falls if the benefits are real, Don't add unless you subtract et als.), and (too) often the examples were just too old/dated for too many people.  (As a point of reference, I am nearing 60, and I am stunned by the lack of understanding of the historical significance of Viet Nam by bright young people under the age of 30.  How, then, can many readers tie in the references to things happening at Harvard in the 50's, or when the author was part of the Kennedy Administration?).

And, then the author tries to connect his eleven mind sets to future trends.  This part was pretty sketchy.  Frankly, the thought that we are becoming a more visual society than one in which people sit idly by reading the next great novel, or burying themselves in five daily newspapers is hardly a revelation.  Nor is the fact that China is ascending in terms of world significance a new idea.  Nor too is the prediction that Europe will continue its descent into an irrelevant continent of countries in which a significant percentage of people will be on economy-killing welfare programs, while the rest are so despaired that they do not sufficiently bear children to pay for all the social largesse, all the while hating the American model of capitalism,  a revelation of any depth.

Ultimately, I think that Mr. Naisbitt's Mid Set fails here because he has not kept pace with the height of the bar that he personally raised over twenty years ago.  He references Megatrends (his 80's masterpiece which sold over 9 million copies) so many times, and with such reverence that I could sense that he was almost devining that  you  place Mind Set at the same level of distinction by association of his authorship.  But, Megatrends was the seminal book of its time - so creative, so stimulating, and so important.  Mind Set just  isn't close to being in the same league.  

Since then, other writers have raised the standard of business/cultural writing with well researched books that certainly challenge and stimulate the readers.  They have expanded on the lessons learned from Megatrends, and they do it better than Mind Set.

As you can see from the other books that I have reviewed, I read many books in this genre.  It is inevitable to compare/rate one book within the context of all the others that you have read, and, within this context, there are better books to read
