\I was so excited to get this book and even more excited that I was able to have it signed by the author.  At first, I just thought that it was rather off the path of most of the books I tend to read, and that is correct.  It is like nothing that I have read in the past, however, I am having a very difficult time finishing it.  I have been forcing myself to get through a few pages at a time, while also reading a series by Dorothy Dunnet.

My desire to like this book is being challenged by the fact that it is just too long and drawn out.  I agree with many that the editors did not do their job on this one.  The book is definately creative and very different.  I just feel like it is hard work to get through.

Many have a problem with Anna Karenina being wordy, but I loved that book and had no problem getting through it, and have read Gabaldon's "Outlander" series, which I also loved and cannot wait for more, but this with this book I have to push myself. Even being close to the end, it just is not making me feel like I really want more.

When I read, I like the feeling of not being able to put the book down and then always looking forward to getting time to read more.  This book does not do that for me.  I can say that there are very interesting parts to the book that can keep my attention for a while, but then it fades out with too much of the same.  I lose my interest in the characters and just don't care enough about them to put my time into finding out more of what happens to them.

I am sure that I will finish this some day, but right now, I am letting it rest.

In a word "disappointing".

OK.........................I FINISHED THE BOOK.  I finally decided to give it another try.  Now, my own review is "too wordy".  Anyway, the last quarter of the book had more suspense and more creativity that kept me going and even had me beginning to care enough about the characters to finish to the last page.

I have given it another star as I feel that it is engaging in the beginning and if you speed read through most of the middle you then are rewarded with more of the authors creativity.  I do still agree that it is very different than anything I have read before, so, I would give it a try, but be ready to push through the middle for some excitemet toward the end. *** star
