Riding the wave of Anti-Afrocentrism, two-time Pulitzer Prize winner Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr wrote the book The Disuniting of America. An expert on American Presidencies, Schlesinger Jr promotes the idea of America as an integrationist melting-pot rather than a multiculturalist disaster waiting to happen. Because "Canadians have never developed a strong sense of what it means to be a Canadian"  they are not privy to what Americans have enjoyed in e Pluribus Unum. Schlesinger acknowledges that racism is a shameful act and that "white Americans have been racist in [their] laws, in [their] institutions... customs, conditioned reflexes, in [their] souls."  But while these unfair conditions still exist, Schlesinger argues that assimilation and integration are the way forward, citing Ghandi and Martin Luther King, Jr. in an attempt to allow the American sentiment to prevail over all others.
Compounding the problems of political correctness, the search for children's self-esteem, individual community development, ethnic separatism and the teaching of history as "filiopietistic commemoration" several internal factors working together in the United States for making this issue a large one are highlighted. The constant ethnocentrism in cultural politics, in Schlesinger's opinion, speaks negatively to educational practises, thereby causing a neo-segregationist cause furthered by Afrocentrism's insistence that there is a specific "Africanity" (to coin Molefi Asante), Afrocentricity and cosmological sensibility that makes blacks fundamentally different from whites. Afrocentrism's insistence that the person of colour is a feeling being whereas the person of non-colour is a reasoning being is, in Schlesinger's opinion, ludicrous. For example, the thespians' world has been dramatically, continuously corrupted by questions of race. Would Shakespeare have wanted Denzel Washington to play his Richard III as he did in New York before he broke into more popular films? Is it more disturbing that Mr. Washington has perfect posture (Richard III was written by Shakespeare to be a deformed-looking creature, a victim of "lookism" if you will) or that Denzel Washington, as he describes himself, is a "bird" (a black person)?

"We have a different way of responding to the world," he said. "We have different ideas about religion, different manners of social intercourse. We have different ideas about style, about language. We have different aesthetics... The job [to be the director of a film about black people] requires someone who shares the specifics of the culture of Black Americans... Let's make a rule. Blacks don't direct Italian films. Italians don't direct Jewish films. Jews don't direct black American films."

This quote by the brilliant black playwright August Wilson, insisting on a black director for the film of his play Fences more specifically troubling to Schlesinger: "By the Wilson rule, only Norweigans would be permitted to direct Ibsen, only Danes to play Hamlet." This is of course simplifying the argument, and attributing something wholly unrelated to Afrocentrism to Afrocentrism. The notion that the skin colour or general appearance or sexual orientation of the actor should be somewhat similar to his character so as to convince, appease and comfort the audience is not a new one created and espoused solely by proponents of Afrocentrism. Placing Afrocentrism more directly in his eye-view than D'Souza, Schlesinger is threatened by anything that attacks traditions of the USA as an integrationist melting-pot, especially where it makes race-relations all the more uncomfortable. 
Be that as it may, Schlesinger's readings and analyses are narrow. He trivialises the entire 1996 Oakland, California Ebonics scandal just as D'Souza trivialised the University of Michigan race-relations scandal of 1991: black people were acting up and asked for too much to compensate for their deep-rooted sense of paranoia. He also discusses this paranoia as an overarching "susceptibility". He asks: "Considering what we now know about the plots against black Americans conducted by J. Edgar Hoover and executed by his FBI, who can blame blacks for being forever suspicious of white intentions?"  Still, he trivialises several members of the black community's insistence that the presence and general use of hard drugs in the ghettos of the United States is the doing of the government, describing it as "a more extreme version of the persecution complex... [present in] a society of jostling and competing groups."  
The first response to this is an obvious one. A gram of liquid or powdered cocaine, more expensive and more often available in richer, whiter communities can cost a drug dealer two years in jail according to the law, whereas a gram of solid rock-cocaine, the exact same substance in a different form, cheaper more often available in poorer, blacker communities can send a drug dealer to jail for ten years on charges of possession with intent. So for the exact same crime, your average white drug dealer goes to jail for about half a college career whereas your average black drug dealer goes to jail for about an entire secondary school career. The second response to this comment is not as obvious but more rooted in an historical problem. When J. Edgar Hoover as stated before plotted and planned against black groups in the 1960's, and when from 1932 to 1972 the US Public Health Service conducted an experiment on 399 black men in the late stages of syphilis in what is now commonly known as the Tuskegee Experiment, all protocol, both scientific and political, had been thrown out in the name of racism.
In 1990, a New York Times-WCBS-TV survey found that 10 percent of African-Americans believed that the U.S. government created AIDS as a plot to exterminate blacks, and another 19 percent could not rule out the possibility that this might be true. As outrageous and unreasonable as this may sound, at one time the Tuskegee experiment must have seemed equally farfetched. Who could imagine the government, all the way up to the Surgeon General of the United States, deliberately allowing a group of its citizens to die from a terrible disease for the sake of an ill-conceived experiment? In light of this and many other shameful episodes in our history, African Americans' widespread mistrust of the government and white society in general should not be a surprise to anyone, nor should it be trivialised by the likes of Schlesinger. As previously stated Schlesinger's readings and analyses are narrow and often unthinking, blaming Afrocentrism for such common things as the phenomenon of black paranoia, which threaten academic values of accuracy and objectivity when played out on paper.
