As a recent Econ Major from the University of Washington, I found the book outdated and inconsistent.  It had the nauseating sense of a political polemic dressed up as an "economic treatise."  I can only agree with a handful of his "realist" conclusions.  

While reading Eat the Rich, I found the first few chapters on theory semi-humorous and the rest of the book dry, just like most economics texts.  Apparently the dismal science is humorless by definition.  

As for Mr. O'Rourke's so called libertarian credentials, I would like to revoke them after reading this book and his romance pamphlet for the U.S. military (called Peace Kills).  Just because you are a member of the Cato institute, doesn't mean you are a consistent libertarian.  In fact, it probably makes you an inconsistent one.  

Obviously I have more complaints, so I will save us both time and just relate one more.

Why would you seriously treat Albania as a capitalist country?  Then call it anarchist?  It seems that P.J. has a bit of an axe to grind here.  If he would have just looked at the Fraser institute's study on economic freedom - he would find Albania ranks number 91st in government regulation of business, 74th on protection of private property and 69th on the relative (taxed) size of government out of roughly a 100 countries.  Obviously Mr. O'Rourke hasn't done his research very well (or his empiricist radar was turned off) if I was able to do a similar analysis in a few moments without going to the country in question.  How can the 69th largest government be called "anarchist?"  I am truly puzzled.  (After looking at some of the recent historical data - I wonder if O'Rourke was asleep while writing this chapter.  I have been generous with my numbers for the former Communist country.) 

All seriousness aside, I liked P.J.'s earlier stuff better, most notably "Parliament of Whores".   He is much funnier and seems to be more at home with politics.  Yet, from what I have seen, he is writing another book about economics - God spare us.

If you are truly interested in learning Economics - try Gene Callahan's "Economics for Real People."
