 Professor Akcam does not take into account the effects of the Armenian Revolt, which lasted from the 1890s to 1920. Armenian revolutionary groups, the Hinchaks and Dashnaks, launched a campaign of terror against Ottoman officials and citizens. They began killing Muslims 20 years before the Armenian deportations took place in 1915. Also, from 1915 to 1920, Armenian soldiers, rebels and gangs massacred a half-million Turks, Kurds and Azeris. If we are willing to call what happened to the Armenians a genocide, then what do we call what the Armenians did to the Muslims?
 In April 2006, Professor Akcam made the unbelievable statement on PBS that the massacre of Muslims by Armenians was "legend." He is either sadly misinformed about the history of his own country, or he indeed has become a mouthpiece for a political agenda that chooses to ignore historical reality.
 Anyone who seeks to learn about the Armenian/Ottoman tragedy should start with a book published in 1964 by the Armenian scholar, Louise Nalbandian: "Armenian Revolutionary Movements." She wrote her book shortly before the Armenian Diaspora began to politicize their claims to genocide. It doesn't matter to me whether a person believes the Armenians were victims of genocide in 1915. What matters to me is that "academics" such as Professor Akcam insist on discussing only one side of this tragic story, and continue to pretend that Armenians did no wrong.
 Horrible atrocities were committed on all sides; it is the responsibility of Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan to deal with this legacy. In the U.S. and Europe, this issue has become too politicized. Anyone who disagrees with the Armenian viewpoint is automatically labeled a "genocide denier." Unfortunately, most of the media and politicians have naively chosen to support the Armenian genocide claims without conducting their own research. And they choose to believe that "scholars" such as Professor Akcam are basing their writings on thorough research that takes the Armenian revolutionary movement into account; such is not the case
