My main complaint is that it is another misguided attack on the concept of the "Nobel Savage".  While I understand it is fashionable to do so in hopes of appearing appropriately "skeptical" and "realistic", it is, in fact, neither;  and I suggest such claims are both naive and anthropocentric.

A "realistic" analysis has to begin with a very basic principle of biology:  "Every organism is optimally expressed within the original environment that shaped it".  If you want to get an idea of what is an "optimally expressed" giraffe, for example, you don't look at the animal within a zoo environment ---rather you analyze its behavior within the original "wild environment" of that animal (its Environment of Evolutionary Adaptedness ---E.E.A.).  

Now it is naive and anthropocentric to imagine that the human animal is somehow different from every other organism existing on the planet.  As such, to obtain the optimal expression of the human animal, we must follow the same procedure.  One cannot look to our expression within the modern "zoo" in which we have now "contained" ourselves.  Instead, one must look to the "human wild environment" to gain this deeper understanding.  The E.E.A. of the human animal is defined by the hunter-gatherer nomadic extended families of Paleolithic times.  Thus, based the above foundational biological principle, that particular human expression within the E.E.A. must reasonably be defined as the "optimal hunter-gatherer" ---which is a simple rephrasing of the more popular term, the "Nobel Savage".

Even outside this analysis, it is readily apparent that all of us, presently, are "wilted flowers" in comparison to human animals who optimally "blossomed" within the environment that spawned them.  These original humans experienced the best developmental trajectory imaginable.  Every child grew up within an environment keyed to satisfying the very hard-wired needs that that same environment originally designed.  

Like any animal growing up in a zoo (well-designed or not) the experience of a child growing up in the modern "human zoo" simply can't compare to the secure base of a non-dysfunctional extended nomadic family that prides itself on ending a child's tears usually within a few seconds (see chapter 8, "The Natural Child", within THE PALEOLITHIC PRESCRIPTION by Melvin Konner, et.al.).  And Pinker would somehow ignore that such a relatively "ideal" childhood developmnetal environment just might have an especially positive effect on the adult humans thereby produced?  Again, such a view, I maintain, is representative of a naive faith in our current "normality".  My cynicism is, contrariwise, that the modern human is so far removed from what is the optimal human expression that it is now almost hopeless to somehow find our way back.  It's very much as would happen if all the wild tigers were killed and we had to derive what is the optimal expression of that animal, artificially, from a survey of various zoos.  Could we ever re-create the original tiger in all its splendor outside the wild?  And, in turn, can we ever re-create the original optimal human expression, in all its splendor, outside the wild environment of the original savage --- The Nobel Savage?

Dale G., Clinical Evolutionary Psychologis
