I really liked this book when I started reading it.  The author made a bold statement that he would back up his statements with evidence, and the early chapters are full of information with footnotes if one is inclined to research more about any facts (such as: the highschool dropout rate in the US is now close to 30%.  That figure was startling to me, but he lists several places where I could do further reading on that topic.)

The problems start later in the book.  Once the facts are presented, I found myself disagreeing with the conclusions he drew from those facts quite often.  He believes that parents who "consult" with their children, "inform" them about available choices, and "make suggestions" are equivalent to "overly permissive" parenting.  He cites an example of parents who allow their children to "choose" soda and chips to eat every day.  No doubt, that's no way to allow your child to grow up, but he makes no mention of allowing your child a choice of acceptable options.  What about allowing him to choose between broccoli or a spinach salad with dinner?  There's lots of evidence to support that listening to your child and allowing him freedom within limits that you set is beneficial to self esteem.  

There's a lot of grey area between the authoritarian style of parenting he advocates and being a pushover to your child due to fear of not being liked by him.  He's dismissed the idea of working out a  plan with a child due to some very poor compromises some parents have made.  (A heavy 8 year-old girl is allowed to spend a month with grandparents who let her eat nonstop junk food.  Then she's hard to deal with when she returns home.  Girl doesn't want to go to a no-junk-food camp instead of Gramma's, so mom doesn't do anything different.)  Because of  examples like this where the mom didn't push the issue, he concludes that any consulting with a child is inadvisable.  This is very unfortunate.  Teaching a child the art of compromise and working to reach a solution that both parties can agree on is a great gift.  

The fact that this book was written in 2005 means that it's full of recent information, and it may be worth reading just to see the compilation of the latest studies.  He makes an interesting case about the benefits of singe-sex education, and for the benefits of single-gender, cross-generational activities for young people.  It is his personal opinions on discipline which primarily tained this book in a negative way for me, and dragged the whole work down to two stars
