Dozois prefers the long short story or what might be called the condensed novel, and most of these stories are in that vein. Very few stories here are short. Dozois also prefers stories that are more about millieu and atmosphere rather than stories filled with metaphor or operate on some kind of ironic level (as did the stories in the old Wollheim/Carr anthologies). Perhaps this is due to the kind of science fiction being written today: it's mostly about predictable futures or predictable alien cultures, long on atmosphere and short on story. Many stories, in fact, don't really get going (the McDonald, the Reed, the Gerrold, the Turtledove) for several pages. (I was halfway through the McDonald before I had any understanding what the story was about, let alone what its conflict was--the story had almost no dramatic tension).  

And there are a lot of lost opportunities. Robert Reed's story involves a ship larger than several worlds, but ends up becoming a mere - and unexciting - detective story. The trope or conceit of living in a HUGE space ship is lost both on Reed and the protagonist. What would human life be like if one were traveling the rim of the galaxy in a giant spaceship? Wouldn't that DO something to you? Well, apparently not. The story becomes just another murder mystery that needs to be solved.  The same is true of the David Gerrold story. It's a time travel story involving "timequakes" in the L.A. region (brilliantly realized by a man who's lived there all his life) but becomes devolves into a rather sordid homoerotic detective story in the end (with an ending that's so cliched that I'm surprised Gerrold let himself get away with it). And some of the stories are plain unpleasant, such as the Vonda McIntyre story. How it ended up here I have no idea. Another odd choice is the Alastair Reynolds story, "Along the Aquila Rift". I'm surprised that ANY editor published it: imagine a story told in the first person where, in the end, the person forgets what he has just told you. As a creative writing teacher, I would NEVER have a student tell a story in the 1st person and have it end: "And then I died" or "And then I was given amnesia". One can justifiably wonder how the heck the story got written down in the first place. How did it appear on the printed page?  (Alan Brennert, an otherwise notable writer, won a Nebula years ago by writing a story told by a ghost. I guess fantasy and science fiction writers can do things that mainstream writers cannot. Or perhaps everyone's taking their cues from John Gardner's GRENDEL wherein the monster, telling his tale, is, as we all know, killed in the end. I would let Gardner get away with the conceit, not so Mr. Reynolds. I want my money back!) 

This anthology really is a collection of stories that Dozois would have published had he seen them all for Asimov's Science Fiction. To his credit, he has culled many of these from internet and other non-traditional publishing sources. But mostly these stories weren't a lot of fun, and most took a lot of patience to wade through. I did like the Wolfe story; but, again, the conceit of the story gets lost in a twist ending that can only be appreciated if one has endured a bad marriage and suffered inklings of spousal revenge. I miss Donald Wollheim and Terry Carr and Judith Merrill and Frederick Pohl and Groff Conklin. What happened to stories that were fun? Where is the sense of wonder here? Yes, there are dazzling depictions of India in the future and the wonders of genetic engineering and nanotechnology, but, really, who cares? What is present in this volume are stories written by the very best we have. But they're like weightlifters with these enormous muscles lifting really tiny weights. Is it because they have to crank out two stories a month and three novels a year in order to make a living? Find an old anthology edited by Damon Knight called THE DARK SIDE. It's out there somewhere. It's far better than these anthologies--collections that suggest a paucity of imagination in our field that's been around now for about twenty years. These people, and this editor, can do MUCH better than this
