The author is obviously too young to have eaten food in America before the invention of that horror, the Celebrity Chef--someone whose food is SEEN on TV rather than tasted and smelled. So I had a lot of trouble with his basic premise, that food in America used to be awful and now, thanks to the TV chef-stars we have turned into a nation of "gourmets". 

The fact is, 30 years ago there was wonderful food and inventive pastry all over this country, and even chain restaurants like Friday's served food made with real ingredients, not today's slimy chem-food steamed in microwave bags. 

If we really were a "nation of gourmets" why would chains featuring such horrible slop as Applebee's or Outback serve be the main places most people go out to dinner and the ONLY restaurants left in a lot of towns? 

And by the same token, if we were really gourmets, would the wonderful French and Viennese pastries that were being sold everywhere 20 years ago really have been replaced by the tough scones and stale biscotti that are what a new generation, tragically, thinks of as "pastry?"
 
Back before the airwaves were taken over by Emeril et. al. you could get an ambrosial meal hole-in-the-wall restaurants in the most unlikely places.  I think of a Duck a l'Orange at "The Drum" in the mill town of Orange, Massachusetts that was as good as one I had in the Four Season's Brasserie in the 1960s. Diners served hamburgers that tasted like today's $20 steaks and followed them with truly homemade pies baked by people who knew what they were doing. 
 
No, we have not become a nation of gourmets. We've become a nation of people who know about food by watching celebrities play with it on TV, not from tasting it, and even more sadly, not by cooking it ourselves. 

Beyond the flawed premise, the whole tone of this book was like what you read in US or People, those celebrity gossip magazines you end up having to read when you are waiting for a doctor's appointment and have no alternative.  

After the author shared several disgusting "facts" about the sex life of someone who up until now one might have respected as a columnist for a venerable newspaper my interest began to flag. I'd read a lot about Julia Child elsewhere, and his coverage of her career was both inaccurate and bitchy, with Child repeatedly described as an ugly spinster desperate to land a man. 

The detailing of the ins and outs of the political battles between a few members of the small coterie of people who wrote and cooked for New York's intelligentsia quickly became tiresome. 

Eventually, I put the book down because the author's hipness had become as cloying as too much celebrity chef-inspired mango chutney on an undercooked "gourmet" duck breast 


