I started off this story with great expectations but am only half way through it and am forcing myself to finish it - only because I spent good money on it!  

The story just drags and drags. It's so slow that if I weren't reading the ebook version then I would be skipping pages. I don't like the heroine and I definitely can't stand the hero. She is utterly ridiculous with her head in the clouds living in a dream world. She's supposed to be so enamored of anything that has to do with legends (whining about how she wants to live a legend of her own) but as soon as she is actually involved in one in the form of the St. Legers she balks and wants out. Instead of confronting life she'd rather "fall in love with" a ghost than face a flesh and blood man that she's actually attracted to because he doesn't come with the exact legend that she wants in the way that she wants it.  Truly annoying. 

As for the hero...I can't stand a whining, crying, man. He's supposed to be such a strong, authoritative, character but he spends all of his time whining about his horrible life and how he's such a horrible person. He's handsome, rich, heir to the title, respected by his neighbors, has a rich history, and magical powers...gee, poor guy. Ok, so he's a little shell-shocked from fighting Napolean and he had a bad love affair when he was 18. He's almost thirty years old. Get over it! Grow up! My goodness, it makes me want to smack the guy. The only believable thing about it is that he feels guilty about his brother's leg being crippled. But he's constantly complaining about the fact that his brother saved him when he really wanted to die; how he didn't deserve to be saved; how he's not good enough to be his father's son; how he's reprehensible; he's a wastrel; blah-blah-blah. Not to mention his intimate friendship with a man who I can tell half-way through the book will probably be the bad guy - a friendship that he insists on despite all good common sense and the opinions of all the people he keeps saying that he's not worthy of. I wonder why? Lastly, is the "love" he supposedly feels for Rosalind. I don't understand why he loves her. It's obvious why she "loves" the ghost - but not him yet - while he's already proclaiming that he loves her. Other than the St. Leger legend there hasn't been enough between them for him to "love" her. 

I truly hope this book has a redeeming ending - but I doubt it. I'm more than halfway through it and was so disgusted that I had to voice an opinion. This is the first time I've ever written an opinion without having finished the book. Don't waste your time or your money. I won't be buying any more of this author's books. 

For an excellent historical romantic read with supernaturally gifted heros and heroines (while not straying into the paranormal subgenre) I highly recommend Virginia Henley - Tempted, The Border Hostage, Raven and the Rose, etc. - she writes rich historical novels several cuts above the rest for depth and detail. I'm having a heck of a time finding other contemporary authors of her caliber. (Except Judith McNaught - always trust a Judith McNaught)     
