When historians write about the day that WW III began, they could do worse than pick July 3, 1979, the day that Carter signed his executive order to start funding the Mujahadeen in Afghanistan at Brzezinski's urging. If there was a real beginning of the modern clash of civilizations, it began on Brzezinski and Carter's watch. While the Islamic brotherhood had been building since the 1920's, it was only when these fanatics saw a weak USA that they began to expand their hatred into the West. Once we started funding the Islamic fanatics, and once we ran from them as we did when the mullahs ordered the imprisonment of American diplomats in Iran for 444 days until Carter and ZB  left office, we were in for serious problems for generations to come. But of course ZB ignores all this, and dismissed the impact of his decisions in his infamous interview with Le Nouvel Observateur in 1998 as just causing a "few stirred up Muslims" a.k.a. the Taliban and predecessor organizations to al Qaeda. Of course none of this important stuff is in this book. There has probably never been a worse foreign policy team than ZB and Carter. And now, ZB is baaaack to give us some more advice. Thankfully this book is short but it is full of the same kind of silly assumptions that led him and Carter to draw the Soviets into Afghanistan to create the "Soviet Vietnam."
We are somehow supposed to establish diplomatic counterpoints to what is really a great religious based upheaval, one that he created. ZB's assumptions that the French are going to join the Russians and the US to counteract the forces of evil unleashed upon the world when ZB and Carter opened this Pandora's Box are just plain ridiculous. France has never looked at any alliance except through its commercial interests with a short exception when it was flat on its back during WW II. Russia is not a new player on the scene, and ZB's assumptions that somehow they will align their interests to the US and the West just to make the Islamists feel better and stop the attacks is beyond idiotic. If you want to read a book that describes a situation poorly and then comes up with even worse prescriptions for fixing the wrong things, then this book is for you. I picked this up thinking that he might have learned some lessons from his mistakes, but I was wrong. How this guy can even show his face, let alone give us some more bad advice is beyond me.
