	Is it possible to experience a life crisis as a "twenty something?" Authors Alexandra Robbins and Abby Wilner assert that not only does such a crisis exist, but also that it is comparable to what is commonly known as a mid-life crisis, only with 20-something issues. In their book, Quarterlife Crisis, Alexandra Robbins and Abby Wilner share stories and vignettes about lives and issues of twenty five year-olds they call Quarterlifers. Robbins and Wilner feel that if Quarterlifers deal with the crisis now, they might be able to avoid a midlife crisis. The book shares Quarterlifers' thoughts, attitudes, and motivations toward work, personal development, friends, family, and relationships. 

Judging by the stories, Quarterlifers seem surprised and disappointed to learn that negotiating today's economic landscape requires more savvy than can be acquired through academic success. They are disheartened to learn that following what led to success for Gen Xers does not necessarily yield the same results for them. This book's perspective seems to be that Quarterlifers are entitled to those results no matter what the current economic environment. 

Quarterlifers grew up in a stable financial market, with families that could afford such amenities as in-home personal computers; fast internet access; cable TV with hundreds of stations; cell phones; and PlayStation. Quarterlifers embrace a materialistic lifestyle that relies on creature comforts, and have not considered the possibility of life without them. Their emphasis on materialism causes Quarterlifers to fear going off on their own where they might have to give up luxuries they consider life's staples. 

Unlike previous generations, and generations since, Gen Xers came of age in a time when graduates with academic success were wooed with $100,000 starting salaries and stock options. Gen Xers were placed in mentoring programs; their college debts were paid by their company, and they quickly climbed the corporate ladder. With the dotcom boom, many Gen Xers expected to be millionaires by the time they were age 35, and some of them actually were.

This is not so for Quarterlifers, the rewards of academic success no longer guarantee career or financial stability. Quarterlifers feel they have followed the prescribed route to success and have been deprived of the rewards. Quarterlifers' response is to feel alone, isolated, anxious, and depressed. Somehow Quarterlifers feel they are unique, and find it difficult to accept that theirs is the angst of most generations as they enter the early adult stage of life. 

In spite of their emphasis on comfort, Quarterlifers are often hesitant to seek the relief professional help could provide. Such support could assist Quarterlifers in letting go of another barrier: their belief that decisions are irrevocable, that a decision made is a decision forever. As is their style, Quarterlifers find comfort in sharing their frustrations with peers in a threaded discussion on a web site developed for the book: http://www.quarterlifecrisis.com/. 

Quarterlifers are a powerful demographic group, soon to become a third larger than the largest demographic group to precede them, the Baby Boomers. Like previous generations, most Quarterlifers will successfully navigate their 20-somethings. While we wait for them to complete this journey, the book Quarterlife Crisis offers a glimpse into the minds of young adults that is both provocative and insightful.
