This is one of the worst Official strategy guides you could ever buy.  Sure it covers all of the missions, but some of them are not covered any more fully than what you get from playing the game itself.  It briefly covers SOME of the side jobs and non-mission tasks, but an Official guide should cover ALL of them!  There is no detailed information on the Rampages and Unique Jumps, and the Hidden Packages are only covered with a map and short sentence.  Some of the other reviewers here go into detail about the deficiencies of this book, so I really don't need to say much more.  DON'T BE FOOLED BY THE GOOD REVIEWS THIS BOOK RECEIVED, BECAUSE IT DOESN'T DESERVE THEM.  I own this guide and the one released eight months later for the PC version.  Although the PC guide is smaller (but much thicker) and in black &amp; white (there are color maps in the back), it covers EVERYTHING (except cheat codes) about the game and with much more detail.  Even if you own the Playstation 2 version of the game, you'd be better off buying the PC guide.  The only difference gameplay wise are the controls mentioned in the book and a few little things like rewards for some of the vehicle missions.  To wrap this up, here is an excerpt from the author in the Acknowledgement's section of the PC guide: &quot;Beyond the satisfaction of playing the game a few more times, I was even more delighted to add features to this guide that I didn't have time to include in the PS2 guide.  And with Tim Cox's phenomenal assistance, as well as his passion for the game, time was no longer the enemy.  We are proud to bring you the most comprehensive Grand Theft Auto III guide in existence.&quot;  So, that explains why this guide (PS2) sucks.  The author was rushed to complete the book, in time for the release of the game, no doubt.  Right there in black &amp; white the author of both guides tells you that the PC guide is the most comprehensive guide, and thus the best one. (I have no idea if the X-Box Double Pack guide is based on the PS2 or PC versions, so proceed with caution when getting that one.
