In Edward Klein's The Kennedy Curse: Why America's First Family Has Been Haunted by Tragedy for 150 Years, there isn't much new here except for pure gossip, rumor and innuendo.  

Klein starts off to make this a pseudo-scientific study of facts contributing to the Kennedy curse including lots of psycho-babble, genetic factors, etc.  He claims his book is a detective story.  He tries to show how "the Irish immigrant experience of poverty and humiliation developed into an obsessive lust for power and dominance over others at the expense of all ethical behavior."  Throw in domineering fathers, cold mothers, alcohol, drugs, sex, thrill-seeking behavior, ADHD, restlessness, boredom and impatience, and you get a prescription for tragedy.  Many people believe a black cloud has followed the Kennedy family for many generations.  It actually appears that the Kennedy's followed the black cloud on their own.  

In trying to prove his curse theory, Klein spotlights seven family members including immigrant Patrick Kennedy, Joe Kennedy, Sr., Kathleen (Kick) Kennedy, JFK, William Kennedy Smith, JFK, Jr., and JFK's maternal grandfather, John Honey Fitz Fitzgerald.  He barely mentions other Kennedy's that have suffered tragedies including Bobby Kennedy, Ted Kennedy, and Joe Kennedy, Jr.  It was interesting to read about the immigrant experience of the Irish, as well as some of the lesser known family members including Kathleen Kennedy and Honey Fitz.  But overall, there isn't much new here, and what is new seems mostly rumor and innuendo.  For instance, Klein accuses JFK of having "chronic venereal disease" and claims it is possible that this caused the death of his pre-mature son, Patrick.  This is a pretty serious allegation to make without proof.  He also tells how Carolyn Bessette Kennedy's friends destroyed her drug stash after that fateful plane crash.  I don't believe the Kennedy's are saints and I know they've done some atrocious things, but give us hard facts.

Overall, my recommendation is to skip The Kennedy Curse.  If you want to read more about this fated family, there are much better and more comprehensive books to be had.  It is hard to believe this book was written by a Pulitzer Prize-winning author.
