I first read Parker Palmer's spiritual guide The Courage to Teach as an undergraduate student, some number of years ago. At the time Palmer received much praise for his truthful ways of helping steer teachers through their inner emotions and was already well known for his numerous previous works, including the infamous To Know as We Are Known. Genuinely interested in the hype surrounding Palmer's passion for teaching and unique means of connecting with the hearts of teachers, I read his latest book and found that it took a great deal of courage to follow. While it is clearly evident that Palmer is a highly respected teacher and writer, I found the initial chapters difficult to comprehend, intricately florid like an artistic poem, rambling, and long-winded. At the time, I was not yet a teacher, and attributed my boredom with the book as such that I was an outsider to the realm of teaching and lacked basic classroom experiences upon which to identify with the voice of the text. In 2002 I walked away from the book, half finished, with a single passage ringing continuously on my mind: "Teach in the space where the community of truth is practiced". 

Four years later I have found the courage to reread Palmer's "...exploration through the inner landscape of a teacher's mind", and with daring audacity seek to unravel the weave that is Palmer's complex web of connections by developing my own scholastic, communal space where truth can be practiced. 

I will admit Palmer's ideology is more comprehendible to me the second time around, though I suspect like many great works The Courage to Teach gets better with age and familiarity through experience that can be connected with the text. In summarizing my two experiences with Palmer, "Teach in the space where the community of truth is practiced" is still my synopsis of the bulk of his book. Now, if only one can comprehend the meaning of this passage and apply it to their daily work, Palmer has succeeded. 

If Palmer had included with his book, a sketch explaining the flow of his chapters, I would have been a much more contented reader. This being said, it is obvious I am a visual learner, and Palmer would have appreciated my awareness of boxing myself into such an "either-or" psychological learning style, though he'd recommend I read his book in its entirety and create an outline of the text, if I so find it essential to my learning. Therefore in an effort to truly appreciate Palmer's wisdom, I dredged through the intrapersonal, verbal intuitions of the text while spatially outlining his premises for heartfelt teaching, which I feel he almost certainly could have summed up in a fraction of the space. 

According to Palmer, the heart of a good teacher does not exist in technique, but rather in their identification and ability to share their own identity and integrity with their students and colleagues. Palmer suggests that good teachers teach from within; they are able to connect the subject they teach with their own lives, therefore "(weaving)...the fabric that joins them with their students and subjects...their heart is the loom". As straightforward as this reads, we are fearful of wearing our heart on our sleeve, opening up and sharing the very genetic makeup of our lives because a risk is involved. Teachers and students alike, risk "failing, of not understanding, or being drawn to issues they would rather avoid, of having their ignorance exposed, (and) looking foolish in front of their peers". As a result of this fearfulness we become silenced and withdrawn from discussion, much like a student on their first day at a new school, only the silence sticks with us, from walking into the classroom and being unable to find a communal place from which teaching or learning can successfully come. Palmer extensively references Barbara McClintock, the 1983 Nobel Prize Winner, whose vital discoveries in the field of genetic organisms were recognized in part due to her understanding that all living matter is dependent upon a communal factor. 

Palmer continues throughout the entity of the book describing the "Parker" space for practicing the community of truth. The safe community Palmer established over 30 years of teaching requires that six ground rules are abided by: 

1. The space should be both restricted, and open 
2. The space should be hospitable and charged 
3. The space should invite the voices of individuals and the group 
4. The space should honor both the little stories and the big 
5. The space should support solitude and community 
6. The space should welcome silence and speech 

By virtue of the fact that we are all humans, and therefore members of a common society, and given the truth that humans naturally turn towards community, learning in such an environment should give the impression of feasibility. However, we cannot insist upon closeness within the parameters of such a community, thereby requiring yet another truth. Palmer suggests that the best learning environments are those in which the "subject (is at) the center of our attention". Although Palmer makes it clear that engaging students in the community of truth does not require that we put the chairs in a circle and have a conversation, I reflect upon the courses I have taken it which a low student enrollment made this such classroom arrangement possible. It was easy for me to recall such classes, the years and seasons in which the courses were taught, the professors' names and the names of my classmates, the subject matter and the dialog linking the books we studied; all appear clear in my mind. To the contrary I can scarcely recall the foundations of my classes in which the aim of the course was to deliver a great deal of information through nonstop lecturing, leaving the very subject so distant from the expert that the amateurs (also known as students)  could only baffle at the flood of knowledge we were supposedly receiving. 

Palmer then comments that "we pay a high price for (the) privatization..." we receive once becoming teachers. It is no astonishment that when teachers become so isolated from one another it becomes only natural to teach in a similar manner, withdrawn from the subject and monotone as if speaking to oneself. If we pledge to grow as teachers, we must invite people to share in our process and listen to our soul fair and honestly. Lastly, Palmer provides empathy for any teacher who has ever had an awful day and questions the very reason they ever decided to join the ranks of education. Palmer reminds us that education is always "more a process than product" and students often don't learn to appreciate their professors until sometime later. 

Palmer asks his readers to reexamine not only their methods to teaching, but their lives as well. As lifelong learners each of us is a "knower" encircling the subjects we put at the heart of our attention, but as teachers, we must cooperatively create the communal space where learning can occur, all the while acquiring the competence to connect with our students through sharing our innermost identities. In addition, we must not try to duplicate the teaching styles of our mentors, but rather investigate and improve upon the teacher within ourselves. The Courage to Teach offers readers a glimpse at the possibilities that exist when we are able to regain heart. Easier said than done, Palmer's spiritual guide challenges its readers and is undoubtedly a noteworthy edition to any teacher's library, but don't expect any life-altering changes to occur from reading the book. 

