i'm a nora roberts fan, so picking up a book of hers to read is something i look forward to. after reading "born in fire", i was eager to find out what kind of romance the cool and collected brianna would find in "born in ice".

brianna is a young woman who is uncomfortable with conflict, and because she grew up in a household where her fiery sister maggie and embittered mom maeve were always battling, she developed the ability to keep a calm facade in the face of a storm. she has done a good job of disciplining her emotions to the point where they can't create further conflict, even if she burns with anger inside. she's very family oriented and longs for a husband and family of her own. after being jilted weeks before her wedding a decade before the timing of the story, she thinks she'll never have what she dreams of.

she owns a bed and breakfast in a small town in ireland where she is the perfect hostess. she's always hospitable to her guests. she's a gifted artist in both the kitchen and garden, two places she loves to be. although she's surrounded by folks who love her, she's still lonely.

and then comes grayson, the american writer who pops in for a couple of months to write a novel as inspired by the scenery and ambience of ireland. he's one who lives in the moment, ignoring his past and unwilling to plan the future because of the commitment and responsibilities such an action would create.

the characters compliment each other well. they're both generous and both suffering from childhoods where they didn't feel loved. she's comfortable with the idea of laying down roots but he's not. that's where the conflict comes to play. 

and that's kinda where i've got a problem with the book. this is supposed to be a guy who doesn't want emotional ties, yet early in the book he's already willingly becoming emotionally attached to her. there simply wasn't enough resistance from him for me to believe he was really afraid of settling down. there was very little if any sexual tension here, and not enough situations to warrant sexual tension. a couple of encounters of kissing and then they were in bed. and even then, it seemed like he wasn't really fighting himself for being there. there simply wasn't enough of an inner conflict within him. it all seemed like lukewarm resistance.

and brianna was simply a saint. i would have liked to see her emote a little more. i understand that she was written to be an ice princess of sorts, but i don't think roberts did a good job of depicting her as a character who was a carefully contained boiler. at times i found it difficult to believe brianna could exhibit any kind of real passion with grayson. 

there were alot of slow moments in the book that made me wishing i was already near the end. i will say that the ending was sweet. also, it was great seeing how the relationship of maggie and rogan progressed from "born in fire".

i'd recommend this book to anyone who likes reading about the vividness of a writer's imagination, as roberts did a great job with grayson in that respect. however, if you're looking for a "can't put down" romance novel, this ain't it
