
Reading Dark Harbor is like watching a mediocre TV show that you can't be bothered to turn off. I listened to Dark Harbor as an audio book, so I don't feel too badly about wasting my time on it because I `read it' while I was doing other things that had to be done anyway, like driving. 

If you are looking for something that feels fresh and new - Dark Harbor is not for you. This novel is about as innovative as an episode of Murder She Wrote. To illustrate: Stone Barrington and his cronies quickly deduce that an apparent suicide must have been a murder because the gun was found in the victim's wrong hand. (I think I actually saw that one on Murder She Wrote) Woods either can't be bothered to come up with a new idea or he simply doesn't care. 

It is clear early on who is responsible for the murders in Dark Harbor. This isn't because the clues come together in any logical way, but rather because of the predictable nature of the novel. You can just tell. This doesn't mean that the solution makes sense. In fact, there are huge inconsistencies in the plot that make the ending feel forced. 

It is as if Woods couldn't be bothered to think all of his plot lines through. Woods is compelled to include his regular characters in the novel even though they have little to do (except of course, to have sex with Stone). Holly barely says a word on her first trip to the island. On her second trip she has an obligatory romp with Stone and then gets kidnapped for the remainder of the novel. 

Why was she kidnapped? I don't think anyone - including Woods - can answer that question in any plausible way. My theory is that Woods needed to work Holly into the plot and decided that putting her in peril would allow him to fill a few pages. It also allowed him to include Holly's dad (another regular character) in her search. Wood's motive seems obvious. The kidnapper's motive however isn't - her kidnapping makes no sense. But clearly this was something Woods didn't think was worth worrying about. 

The best I can say about this novel is that it is a quick easy read (of course, in my case it was read to me). It may not be worth the time and trouble to actually read (and certainly not to buy) - but as an audio book from the library (with a limited selection of audio books to choose from) it helped me pass the time in traffic. 

