Next to reading "The Man in the High Castle", I was prepared to read something as deep and as drawn out as that Hugo winning quasi-science-fiction novel from the same author. "Martian Time-Slip" is described as being similar in nature to that style of writing. I also discovered "Clans of the Alphane Moon", "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" (Blade Runner), "Ubik" and "The Simulacra", all of which are 5 star reads, "Martian-Time Slip" comes highly recommended because it is in the top twenty science-fiction books, Orion Publishers and the SF Masterworks series listing it as #13 in their collection. Unfortunately I was surprised by how little I enjoyed any of it and in fact I hated a lot of it, however the author should be credited and published for creating this world, but as for reading it... well that is a totally different matter. This is an oddity, more for collectors than readers. I am glad to have it in my Philip K. Dick collection.... However, it is at the back of his collection.

Mars is populated by settlers from Earth, starting a new world there, with Bleekmen Martians, like primitive man, selling trinkets to earthlings, who mostly need clean water, which is owned by the waterworks manager, Arnie Kott, who has acquired a former mentally ill repairman, Jack Bohlen, to plug into the mind of an autistic boy, Manfred, who might be able to see the future and tell him why the UN wants to buy in on Mars soil. Jack's father arrives from Earth, turns out to be a prospector and Jack ends up double-crossing Kott, over and over again in alterative universes, until he figures what is going on and by that stage you just don't care because there is no ending, there is no science-fiction, the politics and extraterrestrial real estate scams became moot long ago, the penetration of the mysteries of being and time totally abstract to the point of meaninglessness anywhere else except in Dick's mind, then we get his over-excuse for adultery neatly wrapped in a package "Sleep with other people so that you get to know what your spouse is doing right and wrong", Dick who happens to have been married five times, really doesn't come across as that faithful to his characters and his alter-ego chews through them, mostly sexually, and quite disturbingly, ending up in a Dick book that doesn't quite have the same panache as anything I have read from him before.

Even though "Martian Time-Slip" puts forward some very interesting notions that make you think ah, here it comes, the plot or the twist, it never really does. Instead you end up with an extended soap opera on Mars, not that this is a bad idea, Dick writes good soap into his science-fiction ("Clans of the Alphane Moon" does it well), but the soap here pretty much envelops any science-fiction under all the smut and suds that come out of nowhere around page 100 and continue to dominate the later half of the book with the theories discussed in pages 70 to 100, never going anywhere, after the huge 70 page opening, yes many of you will be wasting your time, characters are introduced far too slowly, jacked around half way through the story and replaced by new characters towards the end, meaning what you have covered so far has been lost to the warping and bending of time in the story, unfortunately not working out as a good read, but maybe as good writing, and certainly Philip K. Dick can not be faulted for his literature skills, dialogue or introduction of descriptions that should have occurred towards the start of the book, we don't mind all of this, but the story thus is boring, without centre and does not deliver on a payoff like the last two or three pages of "The Man in the High Castle." It isn't like that work at all. This is a self-serving science fiction rant to explain the author's own problems with mental health and infidelity.

As many of you know Dick can be more suggestive than fleshing out those suggestions. Here he makes a suggestion that quite frankly we are not in the least bit interested in because of the way he puts it forward, that some people's mental illness can be confused with people who really have special talents, but the story boxes this concept into replaying a scene a couple of times over again in variation each time, the Martian Time-Slip explained by changes in people's perceptions, this concept comes up in the middle of the book, then takes a back seat to more suds and soap about adultery... and never emerges again. I am glad to be free of this book. That is not a good sign.

It hurts me to say this but... "Martian Time-Slip" stinks. Only get it to see into the mind of a science-fiction writer beginning to question the depths of the mind and reasons for his own unfaithfulness. If you want to learn more about Dick through his work, then certainly this has lots of insight, but the story, not even close to what he is capable of doing.

I am going to move onto "A Scanner Darkly" next. Hopefully that will go a bit better than this one did. Five stars all the way and then this bumpy ride. Only get this Philip K. Dick if you have read everything else. Comes nowhere even close to #13 place that Orion SF Masterworks gave it
