The whole idea of checking this book out from the library began when I realized that this story I was writing had a pretty similar plot as the story: a bunch of kids with these talents get called up to go to a special school, where they have their own rooms.

	Since I had taken some ideas (or as I call it, ripped off) from this series of books (or maybe it was from Harry Potter...?), I went to see the next installment in the series for some more ideas, hoping that this book would be better than it's previous counterparts.

	I was wrong.

	From what I had read in its Amazon.com description a long time ago, I thought it would be a bit interesting. The story concerns Charlie Brown, a person with a strange talent for hearing voices from pictures. After finding out his talent in the first book, he gets sent to Bloor's Academy, where many of his classmates have strange talents like him, such as being able to call up storms or having the ability of hypnotism.

	In this book, one of Charlie's friends, who is an orphan and lives at the academy, finally gets adopted by the D'Greys. But it is revealed that they are a child-hating couple, who end up forcing the orphan to sign an oath for obedience. They then end up locking him up behind a force field in an odd place called The Passing House.

	It sounds pretty suspenseful, right?

	But the truth is, the actual story isn't. Not only is the character development lacking, with the characters having no personality, everything gets solved within three pages of the events. Yes, I am sort of exaggerating, but the point I'm trying to make is that there are really no important conflicts, because they just all get solved without much difficulty.

	Another thing that I highly dislike about this story (plus the rest of the series) is that everybody is either good, bad, or good, but being controlled of the bad. Maybe it's just that I've been watching too much anime, where you can actually sympathize with the villains, to various extents. And the fact that none of the villains really have back-stories doesn't help much either.  

	I suggest to you not to waste your time on the book, and instead read something else instead, which I have no suggestions for
