It is noteworthy that almost all of the reviews for this book are either 5 stars or 1 star. It therefore seems like this book does not do a good job convincing the reader of an opinion he or she did not hold before reading it. People disbelieving evolution, I am sure, will find in this book "intellectual" justification of their preexisting beliefs. Those who trust evolution will hate it. But there is another type of readers here too, of which I consider myself one: we believe in evolution but are open minded enough (or at least we cherish the pleasure of proving ourselves wrong, utterly wrong, about a belief we have been hosting for a long time) to read an opposing viewpoint. If you are like me, this book will disappoint you--it will strengthen your belief in evolution. Whereas in the past you entertained the doubt that somewhere out there were excellent books perhaps disproving evolution but yet remaining still unread by you, you will finish this book with an exclamation: "Is this what the fuss is all about?" True, there could be other similar books that do a better job at countering the theory of evolution. However, based on the glowing reviews I am reading here, I gather that this book is one of the best their camp has to offer. If so, then I feel sorry indeed for their side of the argument. 

Do I recommend this book to those like me? It is a hard question. Yes and No. Yes, because without reading it, you may still secretly harbor the suspicion that there is maybe a healthy intellectual alternative to evolution--and this books speaks to the opposite of this thought. No, because I do not want you to waste your money and time. The arguments contained in this book are contorted and so easy to refute that you cannot help but be amazed at the ease with which otherwise wise human brains can deceive themselves in order to continue to cherish a sweet illusion. An example of such an argument? I have time only for one. "There are gaps in the archeological documentation of the gradual evolution!" Ok, so what? Are you proposing to jettison any theory that does not have a perfect record of evidence? Why not instead settle with evidence warranting a belief beyond reasonable doubt? According to the authors of this book, a prosecutor needs to let free a suspect, despite him holding a knife dripping with the blood of the victim, just because this prosecutor cannot generate a full account of all the thought processes that have taken place in the suspect's head since his birth 80 years ago... And then the example of "Well, how could a wind build a Boeing by chance alone?" Tiring ... only a person without a modicum of understanding of natural selection and of the power of endless time could seriously ask such an uninformed question. 

To be completely fair, the book contains an excellent essay on Causality, which is somewhat our of place in this book, but which is nonetheless an outstanding take on the concept of Causality in the tradition of Kant and Hume. It is because of this essay that I am giving this book two stars. Otherwise, I share the sentiments expressed in Daniel Dennett's short letter to one of the authors, a letter included in the book: sheer frustration at the intellectual dishonesty and/illusion of the authors.
