For the shear audacity of disobeying scripture this book and its entire series receives no stars. I cringe whenever I see God's word taken out of context, changed, perverted, detracted from, or added onto, especially by men who are supposed to know better. In God's word He clearly gives His opinion on fictionalizing His holy book:

Revelation 22:18-19 "For I testify to everyone wo hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone adds to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this book; and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from Book of Life, from the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book."

Proverbs 3):5-6 "Every word of God is pure; He is a shield to those who put their trust in Him. Do not add to His words, Lest He rebuke you, and you be found a liar."

One way to be found a liar and receive God's rebuke is by fictionalizing (a dangerous form of adding onto God's word where He has not made us privy to His details and outcome of events) His words and prophecies. Fictionalizing the very last days before the Lord's return not wise, and reading the words of authors who do this just might be damaging to one's understanding of scripture and truth in that it can easily confuse the reader concerning true bible facts--especially those who do not have an understanding of scripture or who have never read it. The authors of this series are treading on thin ice, simply shown by God's own words of warning in His book.

The authors have taken serious license in adding onto God's words in their Left Behind series, creating doctrines that do not exist in the bible and that do not align with the teachings of scripture. There are dangerous views on abortion presented in the series, even among its "Christian" characters, which can confuse those who have a liberal mindset or who might not fully understand where God stands on these issues in His unchanging word. There are false representations of the Mark of the Beast that cannot be backed up by scripture but that are debunked by what scripture does say about it. The books also have a huge misrepresentation of the AntiChrist. He is portrayed nothing like scripture has indicated such a ruler will be.

At best, this is a disobedient human attempt at trying to add more detail and story to a time in history Jesus said would be the worst ever. The authors have gone far beyond author's license. We just are not allowed to do this with the word of God.

I urge Christians to read and reread their bibles and be blessed as the Lord promised you would be for reading the book of Revelation. "Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written in it; for the time is near." Revelation 1:3

He has told us what He wants us to know. We don't have the liberty to add onto it or change it
