I must admit I was skeptical when I first opened this book based on previous knowledge I had of MPD.  This book made me that much more skeptical.  In most cases of MPD or DID as it is now more commonly referred to the problem arises through the suggestive power of the therapist.  This case is different though.  On page 67 of the paperback copy I got, Ms Chase describes Stanley(her name for Phillips) as wondering how it is that the personalities could seemingly communicate with each other while at the same time not being aware of each other.  Her answer that she or as she claims her "troops" give is that it is through the use of "thought transference" which was known to the ancient Greeks as she tells us later on.  I almost burst out laughing when I read that.  She also contradicts her claim that the alters don't know of each other later when she has one of them discussing the alters Rabbit and Sister Mary Catherine at the same time.  Another way this happens is how they often refer to themselves as 'we'.  Many of the alters sound as though they came from books or movies.  The abuse that she claims occurred while living with her stepfather is rather graphic.  Her claims really belong in the same realm as those who claim past life memories, ufo sightings, satanic ritual abuse, and second sight.  I think she is not credible in the least.  There is not one fact given to support her claims of past abuse and it would be interesting for someone to write a book looking into her claims to see if there is anything that would substantiate them.  She does let us know in the book that she is very creative, artistic, intelligent, and apparently well read.  I think this has a lot to do with her claims of multiple personalities.  The book itself is long, boring, anti-climatic even with the final confrontation with the stepfather which occurs at the end.  She also seems to be claiming in the book some pscyhic abilities.  Don't waste your money on this book, unless you have to read it for a class as I did. 
