Well, let's see.  This is a really stupid book [...]It makes me understand why journalists are generally considered to be scum.

For example, the author ridicules Mary Ann Glendon, a perfectly respectable Harvard law professor, celebrated author, and conservative Catholic, while giving a free pass to "Catholics for a Free Choice," a group whose name is a contradiction in terms, kinda like if there were a group called "Cannibals Against the Consumption of Human Flesh."

You know what really irks me about this book?  The author's supposed objectivity and fairness.  Yes, he quotes both conservative Catholics and liberal Catholics, but not in any kind of even-handed way.  As in the above case, conservative Catholics are always put in a negative light, whereas liberal Catholics (with a few key exceptions, when they are so far out that only a Matthew Fox or Margaret Starbird would affirm their position) are always put in a positive light.  

Not only that, this book is sensationalist and pandering: sensationalist in the way it presents information, and pandering in the way it plays to fellow journalists and the media in general.  After reading it, it made me realize how incredibly idiotic most journalists are, how craven, sold-out, and just plain dumb they are.  Proof?  Take the title of this book.  Is it an unintentional bad pun?  Who knows?  And isn't it just a little bit arrogant to think you can prognosticate about what's gonna happen with Catholicism in the next few years?  Hey, but so what?  Divining the future sells books, doesn't it?  So let's go with it, especially with the mildly prurient title.

In any case, [...] this should make the Garry Willses and David Traceys--as well as the rest of the puny but strangely influential (at least among themselves) ranks of disaffected, alienated Catholics--happy.

For a fair, balanced, nuanced look at the recent "Catholic troubles," see George Weigel's fine book, The Courage to Be Catholic (which the author, surprise! Surprise! dismisses). 
