     I was not as enthralled with this book as these other reviewers.   As an RN, I know a lot about nutrition, and have studied the subject for many years. I've also studied fasting quite a bit.

      One of this book's strong points is the physiology of what happens when one fasts, but I must qualify that by saying that some of its scientific assertions are questionable, if not dangerous. For instance, he says it is fine for pregnant women to fast for 2-3 weeks. Most other authorities on fasting, many of whom are MD's, advise pregnant women not to fast, as it could result in brain damage to the fetus. It is certainly not something I would risk. 

Other reviewers liked this author's exploration of feelings regarding food, and perhaps this is another one of the book's strong points. But again, some of his recommendations, in my opinion, are medically unsound. Two examples: First, he admonishes his readers to look deep into their childhoods,at   parental attitudes, and relationships with food, while fasting, in the wilderness.  It seems clear to me that looking deeply into one's childhood and attitudes would be better accomplished in formal therapy with a good therapist, than off by one's self in the wilderness. In fact, a wilderness setting wouldn't be safe.  It is well documented that one can become dehydrated, or hypokalemic (dangerously low in potassium) during fasting, especially if one has a pre-existing condition. Someone doing an extended fast should be under medical supervision, or at the least have other people available. Secondly, one's thinking could become distorted while alone in the wilderness without food for weeks on end. It is the job of a therapist to correct one's distorted thinking in a supportive environment. 
      
Another big problem I have with this book is the author's philosophical confusion. At times he endorses Darwinian evolution, saying we are "evolutionarily" adapted for fasting. Darwinian theory assumes there is no supernatural. But through most of the book this author rhapsodizes on his beliefs in Earth worship, and the "aliveness" of all things.  Remember, he is founder of the Foundation for Gaian Studies (in case you don't know, Gaia is "mother Earth goddess"). He says that a main reason for fasting is to become open to what "the gods" have to tell you, especially about your purpose in life. How foolish to think one can find one's purpose from imaginary animistic sources. There is no purpose without God our Creator, who in the beginning, created the heavens and the earth (Genesis 1:1). 
      
Bottom line, I would certainly be careful with what this author says, and read other authors on the subject of fasting. I recommend chapter 5 of "What the Bible Says About Healthy Living," by Rex Russell,MD, "Fasting: the Ultimate Diet," by Allan Cott, MD, and "Fasting and Eating for Health," by Joel Fuhrman, M.D. Also, go straight to the Book of All Books. Fasting is mentioned 74 times in the Bible. See especially Isaiah 58.
