Alissa Quart's book takes a particular position which it advances relentless and articulately: Identifying and providing targeted services for gifted children is a form of harm which deprives them of childhood, freedom and a chance to develop without becoming parental "projects."  As a prodigy herself, she felt harmed by being identified as gifted; ergo it is bad for all gifted children. 

She makes as good a case as I've read, but I doubt that any single solution works for all children. As one of the people she interviewed in the book as having expertise in this area, I see some of the children she describes but I also see the children who are floundering without accommodation. What about the 5-year-old considered "too immature" to be advanced from first grade into second, but her immaturity disappears when she is actually given books at her actual reading level? Would anyone have given her the 4th grade books in class if someone with and alphabet after her name and objective test results hadn't documented it? How many times would she have read "Pat the Bunny" before getting a little punchy?

There is a reason that gifted is mentioned under the section on Attention Deficit Disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV TR). It reminds all of us in the mental health business that we need to make certain that we aren't labeling and medication children who are simply academically underchallenged. Crushing boredom isn't therapeutic and children don't respond well to it. Bored kids entertain themselves in ways that are sometimes disruptive, thoughtless and annoying. Some of these kids aren't relishing the lack of academic pressure; they are being given prescriptions for Ritalin. Miraca Gross' research on gifted is solid, lovely work - and it supports academic acceleration as generally benign and often transformative for bright, underchallenged children. 

 In the three hours of telephone conversation, Alissa and I ranged pretty widely. It was sad that she highlighted the exchanges which were the most unkind to parents of gifted children. While there are parents who can be overly invested in their children, most of the parents of gifted children that I have met are not. Many of these parents are slow to embrace the label and worry that they will raise a generation of pint-sized narcissists. Every group has its fringe: a bit entertaining, a bit bizarre and not representative of the community. While they make good anecdotes, they do not make good ambassadors. 

I chose to do work with gifted children and their parents because there is a need. The people hovering on either end of the bell curve tend to have a rougher time of it. Few would argue that providing services to children with mental retardation is somehow an expression of parental narcissism, but apparently children who are equally statistically unusual are going to be happier if they are shoehorned into someone else's idea of normality. I'd rather we support them in discovering their own abilities and difficulties while supporting their parents with the shockingly hard job of parenting
