Martin claims that his book represents the first "adequate, systematic philosophical critique" of Christianity (5). It does not, however, have the extensive bibliography I would expect from a systematic and thorough critique.

He tries to defend the radical thesis that Jesus never existed. Martin claims he does not rely on this thesis, but he does use elements of its argument to answer Habermas on the resurrection (95). A quick survey of his sources, however, shows that he relies on books that are privately published or published by Prometheus Press rather than publishers more known for scholarly content, such as Oxford or Cambridge. I will offer some examples to show how he is careless with the evidence. First, Martin argues that Paul not did not know Jesus' teaching. This position was critiqued later by David Wenham, PAUL: FOLLOWER OF JESUS OR FOUNDER OF CHRISTIANITY? (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1995). Martin goes further and argues that Paul contradicts Jesus' teaching. But Martin's examples of contradictions (54) can easily be answered by anyone with a basic understanding of the Bible. For example, Martin claims that Paul's ministry to Gentiles conflicts with Jesus' statement to avoid a ministry to Gentiles. However, he neglects to mention that Jesus later authorized evangelism to Gentiles, even though he cites Mt 28:19 in the context of another alleged contradiction. Second, Martin relies heavily on the principle that if a Christian writer knows something about the life or teachings of Jesus, then the writer would certainly use it to bolster his point. But Martin cites evidence against his own principle. He talks about a certain Christian writer between AD 100-140 who did not cite the ethical teachings of Jesus even when it would have been advantageous. He admits that the gospels were around during this time and that the author in question drew some information from them (58). But instead of questioning his principle, he amazingly concludes that the author did not know about Jesus' ETHICAL teaching, even though he knew the traditions in the gospels. 

Martin is forced to draw almost all of his conclusions on the basis of absence of evidence (what he calls the "Negative Evidence Principle", page 46). This is because he rules out all of the actual evidence with extremely skeptical assumptions. But despite the obvious theological bias of the gospel writers, it is hard to believe that NOTHING in the gospels is historically accurate, especially if they are a genre of Greco-Roman biography. Martin argues as if historical accuracy a black and white issue: either the gospels are 100% consistent or they are 0% historically reliable. If you ignore all available evidence on the basis of skeptical assumptions, then you can say whatever you want and this book is a prime example.

In the chapter on the Resurrection he tries to say that a miraculous resurrection is just as probable a priori as a resurrection that results completely uncaused from a chance lapse in a statistical law, and this is supposedly true even though Martin does not presuppose atheism (5). In other words, after I die I might be resurrected to life without any cause whatsoever. Although Martin thinks this is as plausible as a miraculous resurrection brought about by God, I'm not going to hold my breath. Furthermore, he claims a Christian must prove that science will never discover a plausible law of resurrection before it can claim that it was a miracle. So Martin asks us to let him get away with having no explanation for the resurrection because we can't be sure that one day he won't come up with one. When he says that "breakthroughs in medical knowledge could make it understandable how on rare occasions people can come back to life without such [modern] technology" (74) he asks us to believe in his wishful thinking instead of accepting Christianity even tentatively. A more reasonable position would be to believe in the Resurrection until the alleged plausible law is someday discovered. Of course, Martin does not rely on these points, but he never solidly tells us what his view is. Is it group hallucination? Did someone else steal the body? Nevertheless, even if you could convince Martin that Jesus came back to life, he still would deny Christianity because there could be so-called Resurrecting Finite Miracle Workers (RFMW) that would resurrect Jesus with certainty and because Martin cannot see why God would choose a resurrection to achieve his purpose. One gets the sense that Martin would not be convinced of Christianity by anything. 

The chapter on ethics sets up a simplistic account in which hyperbolic statements of Christ become absolute ethical demands. In this, Martin is no different from Jesus' disciples who did not understand what Jesus was really saying (Luke 22:36-38). Martin often takes one verse of the Bible and pits it against another without looking closely at the context of the verse. This is typical of Martin's book. He does not delve deeply into the issues, but is content to "answer" Christianity on a surface level. 

I do not get the sense that Martin is an honest seeker of truth. I was looking for a solid and careful presentation of an argument against Christianity. I will look elsewhere
