In the final act of Gail Godwin's The Good Husband, novelist Hugo Henry compares the process of writing a novel to the progress of marriage.  First comes attraction to the idea, then one must decide whether to continue forward or abandon the story.  Godwin must have seen great promise in this novel's concept, but should have realized it was a fruitless endeavor midway through writing it.  If she had followed her own advice, The Good Husband would not exist only to fail like the marriages it describes.

The Good Husband peers into the lives of two married couples.  The four individuals are brought together by death; the death of a spouse and the death of a newborn.  Throughout the course of the novel we observe these characters tackle various obstacles.  Magda Danvers, an arrogant professor at Aurelia College, struggles through a slow death via cancer while her husband Francis Lake cares for her with unflagging devotion.  Aurelia's writer-in-residence Hugo Henry must cope with both his son's homosexuality and his own failing marriage.  Alice, Hugo's spouse, finds her attention drawn toward both the ailing Magda Danvers and her long dead family, as opposed to her own marriage, in the wake of her first child's death-at-birth.  Throughout the text Godwin alludes to a plethora of scholars and writers, all well researched, to emphasis connections between the four major characters.

An interesting scenario, but one of the key problems with The Good Husband is that these characters, if realistic, are uninteresting and unlikable.  Passages shedding light on the past of Francis the emasculated servant boy do not make for compelling reading.  Hugo the beach novelist (any serious writer would not entitle his novel A Month With the Manigaults and betray the subtlety that makes alliteration work in the first place) is a frustrating little man I attempted to physically beat out of existence by throwing the book against a cinderblock wall.  Perhaps these men are reflections of those in our everyday lives, but the author doesn't do much to make me care about them or even tolerate them.

Godwin writes about as well as I imagine Hugo would; her craft is plagued by graceless description.  I could care less if Francis "wore a clean beige polo shirt."  Is it necessary that Godwin portray "the president's pert-featured wife" as "crisply turned out in mint-green slacks with a matching scoop-neck tee and linen blazer"?  This awkward excess of superficial description without the use of metaphor or simile makes reading The Good Husband a chore.  The glut of adverbs has a similar effect.  By page 240, any reader is well aware of how Leora Harris behaves and interacts with the other characters; we need not be patronized by the use of words such as "pertly" to drive this into our skulls (also note that a variation of this term was used only eight pages ago).  The frequent usage of this, "demurely," and hundreds of other offenders are just as effective as Godwin's bland musings on clothing in hindering the reader's progress.  Adverbs have their place in the English language, but when the author does not trust to reader to infer the climate of dialogue she has insulted her audience's intelligence.

The novel is saved from total disaster by its intriguing premise: the entwined lives of four men and women.  Unfortunately, Godwin doesn't have the tools she needs to weave this tapestry, her ham-fisted writing slowing the pace of the narrative down to a crawl.  The Good Husband will be enjoyed by some, but I will rest easy having finished with Magda Danvers and company
