I wish I could have paged through this book before I got it.  Based on the title, I was hoping that the book would discuss economic developments, new markets, new theories, or new technologies that would lead met to make better investments.  Instead, I'd call this book more of a "technical analysis" piece.  It's basic premise is that stocks move in 20 year cycles, and the cycle for large cap growth stocks ended in 2000.  Therefore, put your money in small cap stocks and large cap value.

It's possible that some readers who invest in mutual funds will find this book useful, although they would have been better served had it been published in 2000.  However, the book does not discuss, let alone even reference, techniques of analyzing individual stocks.  

So what if many stocks got creamed in 2000? You didn't need to be a market historian to see that coming when p/e ratios and other indicia of valuation were so out of whack.  Anyone following the value methodologies of Ben Graham ("Intelligent Investor") or Chris Browne ("Little Book of Value Investing") avoided getting slammed.  

The book's basic premise is that by market timing specific sectors, individual investors can achieve outsized returns.  I am skeptical that most investors will find this to be the case. 

Even the title to this book is arguably misleading.  The book is not truly contrarian - it's about interpreting historic market trends to predict the future.  Anyone who has read a mutual fund prospectus can tell you that the SEC requires a statement to the effect that "past performance does not indicate future results" - readers would be well advised to keep that warning in mind.  

If you want to read good books on contrarian investing, get David Dreman's "Contrarian Investing Strategies: the Next Generation," or one of the numerous books on behavioral finance that are available (example: Belsky & Gilovich's "Why Smart People Make Big Money Mistakes" or Paulos' "A Mathematician Plays the Stock Market.").

Sadly, I wish I had taken a pass on this book
