Bible Code enthusiasts believe God put hidden messages in the Bible for us to find with a computer, however, when you read this man's book, a whole different picture emerges. He states over and over again that he does not believe in God. Then somewhere towards the end of the book, he tells you what he DOES believe. He believes that the Bible Codes are real, but the Bible and its codes were not written by God, but by an alien intelligence that came to us from another planet in a UFO. AND... He claims that there is a Bible Code Key, a steel obelisk buried beneath the salt encrusted land of the Dead Sea, and it is his goal to find it. This key is supposed to contain all knowledge of humanity and it was brought to earth by aliens in a UFO, the ones who supposedly created us. He states we are destined to find this obelisk when the end times are upon us. Incidentally, the Dead Sea, including the land around it, is geographically the lowest point on earth and is considered by some Christian theologians to be the main gateway to hell. AND... This man is bouncing back and forth between world leaders telling them of his dire predictions, BUT that the predictions are actually just "warnings", and we can work to change the outcomes by working together for peace. When his predictions don't come true, he goes back to the computer program and types in different trigger words until he gets the prediction to say what he wants it to say. Or, he claims that we can somehow manage to avoid making the dire prediction come true by taking defensive action soon enough. He predicted a smallpox epidemic to strike Israel in 2005. That didn't happen. Did anyone take action to prevent it? He predicted a nuclear attack on New York or Israel in 2006 (we have a little over 2 months left in 2006 to see if that one comes true). The test of a true prophecy of God is that it will always come true. I was given the very distinct impression that this man's approach to Bible Codes, using them to predict the future, is the handiwork of Satan, and may prove to be a primary tool of the False Prophet. The book Alien Encounters by Chuck Missler hypothesizes that the Antichrist's arrival will be accompanied by a skyful of UFOs, and the Antichrist will then claim that the raptured (missing) Christians were taken by the UFOs because they need to be "re-educated", and here Drosnin is stating a firm belief in aliens as our creators. God warns against listening to soothsayers, mediums, fortunetellers and the like. This really isn't much different. And why would God use an admitted atheist to minister His prophecies to the world? He wouldn't. Christians should ignore Drosnin's Bible Codes, or, at the very least, approach them with great skepticism. If you have an interest in Bible Codes, stick to the writings of Christians, such as Chuck Missler or the Christian Jewish Minister Yacov Rambsel. I also recommend reading the book Alien Encounters by Missler.
