The title of this review is the name of one short story collection by R. A. Lafferty, a great Catholic writer who should be mentioned in *any* guide to great reading or contemporary literature, but was not mentioned here. It is also something that the author of this "guide" should have asked before publishing his book. 

To give further evidence for its incompleteness, the book doesn't mention such great and, at least these days, little known, or not well enough known, writers as James Branch Cabell, Ernest Bramah (whose Kai Lung books Jorge Luis Borges, for one, wholly admired), Lord Dunsany, Mervyn Peake, Jack Vance, James P. Blaylock, Charles G. Finney (The Circus of Dr. Lao), and Avram Davidson (especially Vergil in Averno, as well as his numerous short stories).

What does the book tell of those writers we alredy know of, then? Well, here is the whole paragraph given to Borges, the paragraphs given to other writers or their books are comparable in every way:

"Borges's favourite genre was the very short story. Few of them stretch beyond a handful of pages. But he provides much to think about in very few words. Rather than participating in the traditional narrative tradition (traditional tradition?), his stories are fascinating and curious intellectual puzzles. Defying description, they must simply be experienced to be appreciated. There is really no other reading experience quite like Borges's highly original work."

Yes, but haven't we heard all that a hundred times before? Or at least a dozen? That depends, I suppose, on how long you've been around.

So here you have a nice collection of cover blurbs, at least in effect, and once in a while one suspects that in some other sense too. Short sentences. Or half sentences. Hardly any commas. Nothing you haven't heard or read about before. 

To summarize and state the obvious: if you are looking for great literature that you may not have already heard of too many times, you'll have to look elsewhere; if, on the other hand, you are looking for excuses for not reading those many well enough known books yourself for some while still, you may be able to pass a few days with this worthless guide
