While I generally respect Blomberg's works in other areas, I think he has done a disservice here. It is true that the conversations between Christians (and I include Catholics here, not just evangelicals) and Mormons have often been bellicose. However there is a reason for this. The long-standing mormon doctrines that God declared all other churches to be an abomination in his sight, frequent insulting comments from mormon general authorities towards Christians and the 60,000 missionaries trying to convert Christians into mormonism with a sugar coated version of their faith have inevitably led to Christian resentment. Like many conversations I have had with mormons and especially missionaries, Robinson dances around controversial doctrine making it hard to pin him down. Sure mormons talk about Jesus and God, but they mean something completely different than is meant by Christians. One reviewer praised the book for ignoring &quot;minor&quot; issues like polygamy. When Joseph Smith and subsequent &quot;prophets&quot; declared and affirmed polygamy as a &quot;new and everlasting covenant&quot;, even implying for many years that Jesus was a polygamist, it is hardly a minor or inconsequential point of doctrine. I think Blomberg misses the point here that needs to be emphasized to Christians: we do not attack mormons as individuals, but we do not accept the teachings of the mormon church and leadership as compatible in any way with Christianity. Our conversations with mormons absolutely must be done in love, but without concession. By Blomberg going out of his way to avoid what are referred to as &quot;tired, old arguments&quot; against mormonism, he misses the mark. The reason that these arguments have been around for so long is because they are so damaging to the mormon claim as the exclusive church, and have never been refuted. There are plenty of books out there that compare Christian and mormon doctrine and do so without kid gloves for fear of offending anyone. I would rather offend a mormon and maybe save their soul than be afraid to witness to them until it is too late. I am a former mormon and have been through the temple, and I can say unreservedly that what goes on inside the mormon temple is absolutely contrary to what is taught in the Bible. We as Christians owe it to mormons, who are generally wonderful people, to testify to them with both love and truth
