Restall's conclusions add nothing to what Tzvetan Todorov has already said in The Conquest of America-which Seven Myths gets wrong in its dismissal of Todorov's crucial point about the role of writing in the Conquest.  Merely being able to put information down on paper isn't the issue.  What Todorov means is much more complex, and is grounded in evidence from anthropology to neuroscience (e.g., Ong, Goody, Havelock, Panksepp).  First, with written words fixed in front of you, you can re-read, check for inconsistencies, compare to other accounts to assess accuracy and consider alternatives, even elaborate.  You, in fact, practice thinking skills you have little opportunity to develop unless literate.  Restall also sees no reason to prefer an alphabetic system over, say, Aztec pictographs that interpreters used to recall memorized speeches embodying the culture.  But only with an alphabet can you unambiguously set down every single thing a person can think; and only then can an idea be fully worked out and fully critiqued.  Evidence shows that the way you think when you internalize an alphabetic written language is significantly more abstract, analytical, and adaptable than when you rely primarily on speech.  Second, as Restall claims, "disease," "native disunity," "Spanish steel," and "the culture of war," are causes of the Aztec defeat, but, as Todorov rightly argues, they are only the immediate causes.  Underlying them is the ability to productively command signs (whether words or behaviors)-an ability that hinges on writing.  It's because the Spaniards had an extensive body of written knowledge that they had steel.  It's because of Corts' writing-based innovative thinking that he could exploit information about the "native" situation to win allies.  It's because of the Aztecs' speech-based tradition-dominated thinking that they didn't see the Spaniards as a dangerous new breed of enemy that needed to be dispatched-long before smallpox arrived with a later expedition-and didn't effectively adapt battle conventions to fight this new, unpredictable enemy.  Aztec society, as Todorov emphasizes, was NOT inferior to Spanish society in any absolute way.  The Aztecs clearly had a complex and highly successful culture.  But, at that moment in history, faced with a new kind of enemy shaped by written language, they did not successfully compete.  Restall uncritically dismisses Todorov's argument instead of getting it straight
