Mark Twain's Pudd'nhead Wilson (1854) is a short, episodic novel which continuously promises to flower into a small work of genius but never succeeds. Densely packed with socially explosive themes and literary devices--including two apparent sets of twins, switched identities, transvestite episodes, an emotionally biased stepparent, a scheming heir, a dramatic court room scene, and a mysterious murder--the book is too obviously calculated throughout, and thus, despite moments of genuine power, reads like the awkward concoction that it is. Since Pudd'nhead Wilson is essentially plot-driven, Twain's frequent apparent lack of confidence in his narrative doubly dilutes the novel's forward momentum, leaving the reader uncomfortably aware of the author's somewhat forced creative decisions. Even locally misunderstood lawyer Pudd'nhead Wilson himself--a secondary character--never really exists as a three dimensional figure and seems present throughout only to serve as a deus ex machina at the story's conclusion. 

All of which is a shame, since Pudd'nhead Wilson, in terms of its themes, had the potential to be Twain's greatest work.  The novel is the story of Roxana, a slave who, being "only one-sixteenth black," can pass for white and who switches her own light-skinned child with the child of her master while both are in infancy, thus hoping to spare him the horrible fate of "being sold down the river." But Roxana's child, now known as "Tom" and raised as the future lord of the manor, becomes a bully, an ingrate, and a secret criminal, while the real heir, raised without any advantages as a slave and called "Chambre," merely fulfills his role as an illiterate piece of property. 

The novel's most significant problem is also its most obvious one. Pudd'nhead Wilson would have been far more compelling had Twain not allowed the text to take the overt position that blacks raised as whites will turn out to be as shiftless, loafing, and inherently worthless as the prejudices of the era defined them to be. This is especially true since "Chambre," the genuine white heir, remains offstage for most of the novel and thus his lack of development as a human being under the slave system is never explored. 

Nothing hammers Twain's error of judgement home as much as the fact that the initially sympathetic Roxana develops into a morally compromised individual as the story proceeds, not because it is essentially believable for her to become so, but because Twain needs her to falter to further his rather cumbersome plot. Ultimately, that Roxana is only "only one-sixteenth black" and "Tom" "thirty-one parts white" and both thus essentially caucasian, is neither here nor there, since Twain repeatedly reinforces the notions of the era that both remain "negroes" regardless. 

Though only 120 pages long, the meandering Pudd'nhead Wilson reads like a book twice that length, and, as its audience will begin to suspect as the narrative progresses, the story's climax is pat and predictable. Twain might have succeeded at leaving his racially charged themes deliciously ambiguous and prismatic, but simply does not. Few things are sadder than a work of art that attempts to be clever and fails to be, of Pudd'nhead Wilson is an fine example. 



