Everyone loves Rose, the first narrator of this story and the central character in the book.  Her mother loves her, her first husband, Sister Evangeline, her best friend, her second husband, and her daughter.  The only people with any real reason to love this woman are her mother and daughter, both of whome she abandons completely to work as a cook in an unwed mother's home for almost no pay for 15 years without a vacation or ever having dinner at home alone with her family.  She is completely unlovable in that the only feeling she ever expresses is toward her mother.  She says she misses her everyday.  So why does she never go back to see her before she dies?  Why does she never share with her the granddaughter that she took away from her?  Rose's idea of fun is to drive aimlessly, rent a hotel room on the coast, sit on the bed for five minutes, and drive all night to be home to the husband she doesn't love by morning.  It's idiotic.  Apparently this episode was so much fun to Rose that 15 years after it happened she relates it to her daughter as oh yes, it was so much fun.  Sounds like a blast.  She can't even carry on a conversation, much less show any tenderness or affection.  It makes the people around her who love her so much seem ridiculous.  Son can barely stand to go into the kitchen at St. Elizabeth's after she leaves because he misses her so much, even though she never considered his feelings at all when she named her child Cecelia against his wishes because it held such a painful memory for him, and when she left him to go live by herself in the small cottage.  Also Sister Evangeline confides in Cecelia that she misses Rose so much she can hardly bear it.  Why?  She was a humorless, inconsiderate (to put it mildly), cold-hearted bore.  Cecelia is the only one totally frustrated by her mother, as she should be, but even she accepts her behavior in the end.  It was a well written book that you thought might lead somewhere but went absolutely nowhere, like Rose.  When she leaves you wonder what new relationships is she striking up that she could not care less about now?  I won't read Bel Canto or the Magician's Assistant.  This book was foolish in the extreme and completely pointless
