Whoa! I was expecting a well-written study of the lives and perspectives of
young geniuses and high-IQ adults from this New York Times journalist. 
Instead, "Hothouse Kids" insults and distorts the subject and subjects of 
study.
 
The author skewers everyone she meets: parents,"gifted" study educators 
and researchers, educational product developers and competitive events 
organizers, even the bright children--whom she pities for what she sees as their 
their "nerdish freakiness". 

A former smart girl herself, the author can't seem to find anyone likeable 
in the subculture she has chosen to explore. She pokes fun at how these 
people look, the clothes they wear, the cars they drive. One mother of a 
brilliant child, for example, has hair "suitable for a Journey music 
video." Another walks with a "jerky gait which combines a limp and a 
strut". One man has "wiry clown hair", another communicates through 
"swaggering body language". A gifted child's build reminds the author of 
"Matt Damon on a stretching rack" (whatever that means).  Somebody has a
"lazy eye", someone else rolls her eyes (which is, apparently, too "Gen X"),
and a respected leader in the field of gifted education is accused of 
dressing like "a mystic". One family's kitchen, where the author was 
welcomed, confided in, and provided with food and drink, is criticized as
"rickety--even eccentric". The meal, too, is weird, not up to the author's
standards. Apparently, she finds everyone in the "hothouse" she is studying
to be strange and distasteful.

Several interview subjects for this offensive book have complained of being 
misquoted (see other reviews). This is not surprising as the included 
quotes typically consist of odd jumbles of disconnected ideas and thoughts
--as if the author had extracted sentences from lengthy interviews and
strung them together out of context. 

As the author of more than two dozen nonfiction books, I was shocked and 
disheartened by "Hothouse Kids". It is difficult enough for writers to 
persuade people to agree to interviews without such a glaring reminder of 
the potential for journalistic abuse of power. The process of interviewing 
requires trust: that the writer will not use the interviewees' words 
against them. If I want to write a book on the subject of high-IQ children, 
who in the field would gladly agree to an interview now?

Perhaps the author feels that she has exorcised some of her own disturbed
memories of childhood. Unfortunately, she has added little to the study of
gifted kids while hurting a number of people in the process of vindicating
her own bitterness
