...then perhaps all men should read 'A Women's History of the World', now called, I believe, 'Who Cooked the Last Supper...' (for another look at how facts can be cherry-picked, warped to suit any argument, and sweeping generalizations are made from singular statistical data, and correlations are based off presumptive conclusions demonstrating no adequate causation--hmm, only from a woman's point-of-view and a whole lot more unapologetic in tone...I believe Rosalind Miles came from that era of "bitter feminist"--the male-bashing years... 

Why I'm even wasting brain-cells on this is beyond me, but what the world didn't need was yet one more book--'The myth of Male power'--(you'd do better to read Joseph Campbell and discover the true beauty of myth and symbolism, and some archetypes of masculinity)--that attempts to present the answer to all men's problems (and women's apparently) rehashed once again by misconstrued statistics, sensationalized news contorted to astound and astonish as opposed to making one think, all fit into a pattern of fallacy so apparent, this could be used as an exemplar for intro to logic texts.

Someone in an earlier review stated how disturbing it is so many readers seem to respond favorably to this work without realizing how simplistic the 'facts' proposed are, taken out of context and construed as 'deep' research. What I find even more disheartening is how easily duped most American readers are into not being able to recognize 'pop'-culture hysteria books when they see them and analyze/critique accordingly.  

As a case in point, citing men's suicide rates exceeding women's as they go through adolescence into their 20's and 30's, writing the numbers off as a tirade of 'man-the-victim-of-vicious-masculine-stereotypes-see-how-fragile-we-are-damn-the feminists-who've-made-us-suffer-for-demasculinization". How Sir Warren uses these numbers ignores complex issues of familial, socio-economic, ethnic, racial--along with gender--(and even geography) factors.  This statement is not made in negation of a consistently documented trend of higher rates of suicide amongst men over women--all anyone needs to do is go to the CDC website  http://www.cdc.gov/ncipc/factsheets/suifacts.htm to see that. To say this trend is happening because of feminism's cancerous influence upon the wider arena of modern society however, thus demonstrating the victimization of men, the subsequent hacking-away of the male-coping mechanisms in terms of cognitive and behavioral health demonstrates one of these sweeping generalizations, and a lack of correlation/causation.  

As noted from the CDC website, women are three times more likely than men to attempt suicide (though not carry through on it). Thus, the prevalence of suicide ATTEMPTS amongst women v. men (if we're talking victim v. victim here) is higher for women; men happen to carry through with their attempt on the first go as opposed to women.  Did the self-destructive tendency come about as poisoned offspring resulting from feminism's damaging influence to masculine development/mental-health/social identity through adolescence? What about the damage feminism has done to women? After all, I'm 3 times more likely to try and kill myself, because I've obviously been conditioned by my XX chromosome to be manipulative and attention-seeking, and in my journey to evolve into a more self-directed and empowered individual I've suffered a crisis in my feminine identity (assertiveness warring against my more natural tendency toward passivity and submission).  So, where men I guess blow their heads off 4 times more frequently than women, women are 3 times more likely to slit wrists and call 911.  Hmm, I don't know, seems to me masculinity is fairly intact--purpose-driven and determined straight to the finish. 

I don't honestly believe the above statement, but can anyone see where this sort of reasoning leads? The broad sweeping blame on one civil rights movement (of which feminism ought to be included) attempting to effect societal progress for a discriminated populace elicits a backlash of accusation, wherein feminism is touted as the reason men have lost their identity, self-confidence, jobs security, social security, effectiveness in combat, desire for combat, now experience role-confusion, etc etc...all  in 21st century America. 

Has the male ego become so fragile over the last 50 years that it would allow itself to be debased by such clap-trap argumentation and conclusions as to be found in this book? Are men's identities really so fragile in this country, or in the world, that in trying to reclaim the 'masculine-aura', men must segregate themselves and allow themselves to be defined by one more author espousing post-modernist biological determinism obscured by seeming "deep-research" and profound insight into the male psyche?

If anyone is interested in how the world thinking operated in terms of men and women and gender roles in the era prior to "2nd Wave Feminism", [...]
If anyone believes this was a better world, then I invite you to continue looking through rose-colored glasses. 

For others, especially Sir Warren Farrell, what is it about feminism that has frightened so many, and disgusted so many others? Not to quote a bumper-sticker, but "feminism is the radical idea that women are people too", doesn't seem to scream femi-nazi. 

Indeed, I think one review from "Fire in the Belly" had it right on--if you're looking to reclaim your masculinity, you'd do better to rent a John Wayne movie or watch Gladiator or The 300. Now there are paragons of masculine ethos and heroism--even for women (to enjoy on so many levels).

Ultimately, a purpose driven life isn't defined by gender, nor on self-victimization. 

On the other hand, as one of my favorite authors once wrote, "It's only stupid, conventional men who like stupid, conventional women," (ah, G. Bradshaw).  

I can only wonder at the kind of history with women a man like Sir Warren Farrell has had since he obviously claims to have the answers as to society's ills with them
