I have read (struggled through!) the first 300 pages of this book and am sorry I started it.  If your only intent in life was to read minute scientific details of every snippet of conversation, experiment, inner thought, etc., by physicists and other scientists, discussions from the day radium was first studied on through discovering matter, energy, splitting the atom, etc., etc., this is the 300 pages (actually 270)you need to read, which are guaranteed to put you to sleep time and again.  I now see that reviews advise you to skip the first 300 pages - why didn't the book cover say that?  From the reviews I had read prior to starting the book, I surely thought this book would not only give me all I needed to know about the development of the atomic bomb in an exciting and interesting manner, but from the blurbs about the book, it looked like it would be a fabulous read.  However, the first 300 pages have been so disappointing I doubt if the rest of the book will be able to rescue the disappointment of the first 300 pages.  If any reader has had the enjoyment of reading "The Manhattan Project", by Stephane Groueff, which in 382 pages of non-stop, action packed story-telling, portrayed in a better way what I thought "The Making of the Atomic Bomb" would do even better, then they know what I am talking about.  This is a dull book and from leafing through the remainder of the book, it pretty clearly is not ever going to capture the essence of the atomic bomb story as well as "The Manhatten Project"  I can only think of one description to tell what my opinion on "The Makinig of the Atomic Bomb" is and that is "not as advertized"! 

Some comments about the atomic bomb story.  One has to wonder how, with a group of scientists, who were so afraid that if they published some of their early findings it might get back to the Nazi's and then after they went to all the trouble of doing the impossible task of discovering how to make an atomic bomb, then most of them then got cold feet and didn't even want to use it, when as things turned out, it was necessary, it is a wonder they had the gumption to accomplish this task.  What a bunch of wimps!   

Secondly, even today, after being aware of the entire impossible task of building the bomb, the factories, the many thousands of people who were involved in it, one has to wonder, if you compare the kind of politically correct world, especially in the United States we have now, how was it possible to have kept all the secrets all the years during the development of the bomb?  Nowadays, I fear the secret would have been blasted within a few months by one of our more liberal newspapers the way they have been doing on our war on terror.  So much for keepinig a secret.    
