Imagine my absolute and utter sadness when I picked up this book and found myself reading the equivelent of academic trashtalk.  I do not agree with many 'findings' of the Jesus seminar, and generally agree with the methodological problems pointed out by Johnson.  However, I disagree outright with his basic thesis that the Seminar represents an outright attack on 'true' Christianity.  The first 60 pages are extremely polemical, and leave a bad taste in the mouth; sadly, they could have been summed up in less than six pages, except that polemic sells.  
The main problem with this book is it is fundamentally hypocritical in its basic function.  Most everything that Johnson points out is wrong with the attitudes of the Seminar (especially the seeking of 'limelight' and advertising itself) is reflected directly in Johnson's own writings and career.  If anyone is in the position to make claims against self propagandizing, it is not he.  
Again, I agree in theory with much of what Johnson says, but his overly reactionary attitude is outright dismissive and brings no truly contemplative thesis to bear.  This book is completely de-constructive (which, in defense of Johnson, is his purpose outlined in his preface), but worse is that it borders on character assassination rather than skillful scholarly discourse.  I also felt outright insulted by the dismissive attitude of the author, as it seemed like he was saying that I, the reader, have no ability to make up my own mind on these matters and he was going to "school" me, so to speak.  This belittling style offends me and almost made me not want to read any of his other books.    

If you are interested in this book, look instead at "Living Jesus" the counterpart to this work, also by Johnson, that does not directly attack the Jesus Seminar but rather gives a constructive view into Johnson's own methodological approach.  By establishing his own constructive approach, you, the reader, are better able to make up your own mind about the Jesus seminar, rather than being told what to think.  

Please don't be won over by hard-nosed polemic, there can be no true discussion if points are made simply by being the most outspoken and one-sided.  
