"Everything...is going to be...all right." (Words of comfort spoken by the ridiculous "Affirmation Doll" showcased on the television show "American Inventor")

This book tells scared people what they want to hear.  Unfortunately, pretty words don't change reality for kids with developmental disorders.  I despise this book because of how much harm it can cause!  Ignoring a gash in your leg won't make it go away, but may lead to an infection.  Denying your child's issues is just as unhealthy, and can cause life-long difficulties.

This book encourages you to compare your child and your family to an Einstein profile, and if the match is there, just relax and wait for your child to grow up and learn on her own.  For some children this course of action could cause them irreparable developmental damage.

My son is 3 1/2 years old and still cannot speak more than the first letter of a word ("puh" for please is about as close to a word as he can do right now).  He fits the profile for an Einstein Syndrome kid, as does our family.  I am an engineer with a math minor who plays the piano and guitar; my wife has a college degree in music, although she considered majoring in physics.  Once you consider our extended families, it's hard to find a family that fits the profile better than ours.

Yet I'm convinced that our son would not have made much of his recent progress if he had not received the attention of the therapists this book tells us to avoid.  Our son has benefited greatly from the early intervention services he has received from caring, knowledgeable professionals.  If I followed the advice of this book my son would be worse off than he is today, and would be even less likely to one day live a "normal" life.

We have witnessed none of the drawbacks of having our son "labeled" with a diagnosis.  His diagnosis has never caused anyone to treat him with any less consideration than they would under other circumstances.  On the other hand, his diagnosis has opened doors to resources that would not have been available otherwise.

If you avoid going to the dentist because you fear he'll say you have a cavity, you might enjoy this book.  If you think you can turn junk food into a gourmet meal by giving it a fancy name, this book is for you.  If, on the other hand, you tend to face reality and to seek help where help is needed, then this book will be of no more use to you than an Affirmation Doll would be
