I'm not a member of Douglas' target audience.  That much is obvious as soon as the book opens.  Nevertheless, I was willing to give her the benefit of the doubt.  I don't consider myself to be a sexist, though I wouldn't label myself a feminist, either.  I'm sympathetic to some of the goals of the feminist movement: equal pay for equal work; non-discrimination in employment; basically, equal rights across the board.  What Douglas advocates in her book, however, is not equal rights.  It is special rights, and I believe that women like Douglas are the reason the feminist movement often gets such a bad rap.  Government-funded child care, taxpayer-supported abortions, national health insurance, Social Security for homemakers, and many other socialist policies are proposed as solutions to what were predominantly cultural issues, not legal impediments to equality (though I'm not denying that they existed, and still exist in some cases today).  She often uses her book to make ad hominem attacks against anyone further right on the political spectrum than Ted Kennedy, at one point calling Walt Disney a "right-wing reactionary" for his support of Barry Goldwater in 1964.  She further declares that Richard Nixon's election in 1968 convinced her that "America was not a democracy at all" and that "the status quo was inhumane and monstrous."  She uses her book as a forum to protest the Vietnam war, lend support to black radicalism, and basically do anything she can to distract attention from the fact that the feminist movement was extremely radical and that perhaps the ERA went down to defeat because people truly did understand what was at stake and chose to reject it.  As for the main subject matter of this book, any movie, TV show, or song which did not depict women getting the best of men had deleterious effects on the female psyche and made her feel worthless as a person.  The most absurd moment, for me, came when Douglas felt the need to refer to all sorts of phallic symbols in various westerns.  I'm sorry if it offends her, but the cowboys' "shiny metal oblongs" were not designed to oppress women, they were designed to shoot small oblongs at other cowboys with oblongs.  It's one thing to see a sexist message in I Dream of Jeannie; it's quite something else to be pig-headed for its own sake.  Douglas' failure to remain objective makes this book an unenjoyable read for anyone whose politics are not those of the extreme left.  ..
