Section One of this book makes the observation that humans and other animals don't only have a flight or fight response during crises; we also have a freeze response (playing possum).  The author suggests that trauma symptoms persist if we humans, unlike other animals, don't let the freeze response play out in a flight response, namely running away.  The energy remains trapped in our bodies (and, therefore, our emotions).  At the end of Section One, my husband (a science teacher) and I had high hopes for Waking The Tiger, despite the fact that Levine uses his own "registered" expressions and insists that we are all traumatized, even if we don't know it.

Section Two is so redundant, rhetorical, and seemingly unrelated to Section One, I couldn't understand why it was even in the book.  Section Three was worse.  In both these sections, Levine gives us a couple of examples of people who worked through their frozen traumas, both in his presence, and both by going back through the traumatic experience and then shaking and trembling their way back to health.  Odd, because all through the book, the author tells us, in no uncertain terms, to avoid reliving or visiting the past trauma.  He then goes on to tell us that the way to heal is to work our way between two vortexes; the vortex of the trauma itself, and the vortex of a pleasant experience.  He does not make any solution clear, but insinuates that we go back into the trauma (which he'd previously told us to avoid at all costs), and attach something pleasant to it.  I've studied enough psychology to know this approach is dangerous, questionable, and highly unlikey to effect a cure.  At the end of the book is a section on first aid for people in traumatic situations, so we readers can help people in situations such as auto accidents.

If you're suffering from PTSD and looking for a way to heal, you will not find it in this book.  Try one of the breathing books or tapes by Gay Hendricks; he addresses trauma therapy head-on, with compassion and wisdom.  Levine makes an interesting observation, but as a physicist has no clue how to resolve the issue of frozen trauma.  He should have stopped after Section One. 
