I first saw this book a few years ago at a "peace rally" in California that was led by Kevin Danaher, whose speaking style was the closest I have seen to Hitler's from the news reels I have seen in years past. 
This book was waived at anyone who questioned the rally supporters as "proof" of the guilt of the Jews in bringing forth every ill of mankind. The funny part of this to me was the book was at the "Code Pink" table, where one of the founders of this organization of radical leftists, and un-repentant Communists is Medea (Susan) Benjamin, a Jew, and wife of Kevin Danaher. Ironically, but probably not coincidentally, their table was next to the "Death to Israel" table. 

This book is really a compilation of articles ghost written for Henry Ford senior, who bought the Dearborn paper where all of these chapters originally appeared before they were collected into this book.
Each chapter of this book begins with one of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, an invention of a propagandist in France before Napoleon III reign, and adopted over many decades by Germans and Tsarist Russians where it was finalized in its present form. The only missing chapter was the recipe for making matzo from the blood of a gentile or Arab youth. 
One of the problems with reviewing this book is that it contains some historically accurate facts, such as the enormous influence of the Anti-Defamation League,  which was so successful in eradicating the kind of language and argument that Ford used from acceptable public discourse (if not private conversation) in the USA today. But that doesn't mean that this same language and discourse is not fed daily to hundreds of millions all over the globe by politicians, Imams, or even French Ambassadors. It is hateful, and mostly untruthful, but from the vantage of the millions who have grown up in societies where Jews are the reason for every problem besetting their societies, it is the gospel. 
All you have to do is open most state-sponsored media in the Middle-East, from Egypt, Libya, Iran, Indonesia, Sudan, Lebanon, Syria and you will find the same, or worse calumnies as you find in this book. The difference is that Ford wrote this book in 1920 and you will find the same charges written every day today in most of the Muslim world. 
Ford talked about the control of Hollywood, most American news outlets (before the invention of television but nonetheless applicable to them as well today) theater, "popular culture" and other influences of American society by Jews, and it is hard to dispute this when this remains true today. It is one of the reasons that the US has been vilified for decades since Harry Truman recognized the Jewish State of Israel in 1948. Ford rails about the corrosive effect of attacks on Christianity, religion, marriage, public displays of traditional family values, legislating from the judicial branch of the government and other debates that continue to this day. 

If you have read any of the books by the Ayatollah Khomeini, such as "Khomeini and His Movement,"  published in 1975 but not available in the West, you will find nearly identical language as in Ford's book. I actually suspect that some of the passages from this book were lifted by Khomeini and inserted into his many speeches and writings while in exile in Iraq or France.  For those who have forgotten, never knew, or glossed over his rantings, Khomeini attacked the United States and the Shah, not because of the Shah's alleged violations of human rights and his use of his secret police to suppress religious fanatics like Khomeini who had fled to Paris, but because the Shah allowed women into government, did not recognize the Koran and the Hadiths as the final authority in Iranian jurisprudence, and actually was trying to lead his country into Western notions of religious tolerance. Of course Jimmy Carter sided with Khomeini which led to the imprisonment of American diplomats for 444 days when the Islamic Republic of Iran was established and Iranian "students" invaded the American embassy in 1979.  Khomeini thought that the Shah's biggest problem was that he acted too much like a Jew, was supportive of the USA as the "great satin" and thus linking the US, the Shah, and Israel as the reason for the establishment of the Islamic republic and its goal to eradicate the Jews in the Middle East.  As usual, Carter was totally clueless about the long-term effects of his decision to undermine the shah. 

The Iranian mullahs used many of the arguments that Ford advocated in this book in order to establish "The Party of Allah" (Hezb' Allah) and other terrorist organizations which have been responsible for the deaths of more Americans and others in the West than al Qaeda. 

But the ultimate irony of this book is that it has come full circle. From Hitler's use of it to advocate the need for the death of the Jews, to the current use of it by the far left to advocate the death of Israel and all the Jews contained therein, the language has not changed, only the audience willing to accept its idiocy as its mantra. If you don't understand this, attend the usual "peace rally" sponsored by the far left such as "Code Pink" or "Global Exchange" or dozens of others who hate the USA and all it stands for to see what I mean. I suspect that Medea Benjamin and her fellow travelers will remain oblivious to the consequences of their beliefs until Khomeini's progeny, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, uses his nuclear weapons to "wipe Israel from the face of the Earth" as he has advocated, and perhaps New York City, too.  Ford was simply ahead of his time, and this book would be applauded by hundreds of millions of Muslims all over the world today as an American with whom they agree with about "the international jew."



