This is Martin Luther's Apocrypha not the original Apocrypha.

Learning bible history is important. It is ironic that book based religions like Protestantism forcibly deny that Jesus Christ and the Apostles used these books. Jesus Christ was a Jew. At the time of Christ, Jews had (1) God, (2) sacred scriptures, (3) temple, (4) bloodline and (5) high priests, as the formula for the covenant. The new covenant of the blood of Jesus Christ discontinued the need for a bloodline and everyone is now invited to the feast. The destruction of the Jewish temple and slaughter of all the high priests by Romans in 70 AD brought an operational end to the old covenant. See Hebrews 8:13. Fleeing Jews became a book based religion in order to semi-function without a high priest bloodline or temple. There was also a need for Jews to refute the validity of Christianity. Some 300-200 years BC the Jews had sacred scripture translated into Greek because Jews lost their original Hebrew language to Aramaic (the language that Jesus spoke). This Greek translation of sacred scriptures is known as `The Septuagint', or the LXX. Jesus and the Apostles used the Septuagint. What other sacred scripture could they have used? They could only have been using the LXX at this time. Taking the Septuagint with them in 70 AD Jews found themselves faced with problems such as the prophecy of Christ in their own books (which is supposed to be in there obviously). Christians then (and now) use these books as the case for Jesus Christ. In 70 AD some Jewish rabbis formed "The Council of Jamnia".  This Jewish Council came up with some ideas to both save their religion and to refute Christianity. So began the elimination of books from The Septuagint to form a Jewish canon and thus a canon of sacred scripture for their new book based religion (1. The books had to conform to the Pentateuch - the first 5 books of the OT, 2. The books had to be written in Hebrew, 3. The books had to be written in Palestine and 4. The books had to be written before 400 B.C!) Since Christians (the fulfilment of Judaism) had no need to reform sacred scripture or to even form a canon, they simply kept using the exact same books that Jesus Christ and the Apostles had used in the LXX. With the formation of the Christian Catholic Church the LXX canon was still maintained even though Jews in 70 AD changed it. Why should Christians change the Canon? If it was good enough for Jesus then it was good enough for them! A post-crucifixion Jewish council simply had no implication for them. If anything it was further proof that the Old Testament Canon did not need to be changed to support the testament for the Christ. Skip forward 1500 years and the protestant reformation started by Martin Luther decided to use a post-crucifixion Jewish canon. Why? There are many reasons. Firstly, Luther believed that since Jews changed, or created, a canon, that Christians should use this new Old Testament canon. The omission of books helped Luther to support his own heresies that these books refute. Luther confirmed his own OT canon. At the Council of Trent the Pope reaffirmed that the books post-crucifixion Jews and Luther removed where indeed part of the Canon that Jesus Christ used. The Catholic Church has never changed this canon. Never means never. That is why these books should not be called Apocrypha either. The Apocrypha are the books that never made it into the Canon and are a totally different set of books to the one's called Apocrypha here. Every catholic bible (New American Bible, Jerusalem Bible, New Jerusalem Bible, Revised Standard Version Catholic Edition) calls these books Old Testament, and rightly so, because they are and always have been. The only two groups to remove these books are the Jews at the Council of Jamnia and Protestant reformers. There is really no debate since the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, affirming that Jesus and the Apostles used these books in the Septuagint. They appear in the Dead Sea Scrolls. To sidetrack this very important canon Protestants say that Jesus did not quote from them, but Jesus did not quote from many books in the Old Testament and he also quoted from many things in life outside of sacred scripture. They say that some translators (especially Saint Jerome) objected to these books being Canon (calling them deuterocanonical as opposed to protocanonical) but translators don't decide the canon. However if we are to find in the Gospels some reference to Jesus using these books then it can be found in Luk 18:31 "Then Jesus took unto him the twelve and said to them: Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and all things shall be accomplished which were written by the prophets concerning the Son of man." And especially Luk 24:27 "And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things that were concerning him." The scriptures are those found in the Septuagint, the LXX, not post-Christianity Jewish reform, not in the protestant reformation either. Let's be clear that the Roman Catholic Church has maintained the correct Canon of the Old Testament where Jews and Protestants have not done so. That is a major indication of why Christ wanted to start one church that would last until the end of time. Only the RCC (Roman Catholic Church) can correct the blunders of protestant reform and the deception of Judaism on this vital matter... and it does. Just flick though the table of contents of any of the bibles I have mentioned on this page and you will find that this so called `apocrypha' is in fact Old Testament... not to mention that Ethiopian Jews didn't bother with the recommendations of the Council of Jamnia and kept these books Canon. They still do
