Were a plumber or an an auto mechanic to look for supernatural causes behind a pipe clog or engine problem, you might think his skills questionable.  But according to this book, if a biologist is not willing to accept supernatural causes for the origin of species, he is imposing anti-religious views on the rest of us.  As with most conservative thinkers, Johnson seems intent on splitting the country into two halves.  Those who think like him are good and believe in God, those who do not are atheists who believe in evolution.  While this has worked well for conservatives on political issues, it is less effective in this case since it is rather clear that many if not most of the scientists supporting evolution are Christians, not atheists as Johnson insists.  It is one of many lapses in this poorly written and overrated book.  His contention that the US is a Christian country which at best tolerates other religious viewpoints suggests that he looks on the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion as simply a suggestion.  It also has nothing to do with evolutionary theory and everything to do with the author's own prejudices.  Johnson feels that any unexplained gap in evolution supports the theory of an intelligent designer by default.  For Johnson, if the theory of evolution cannot shed like on everything instantly, it sheds light on nothing.  The author feels that as a Christian it is inappropriate to tolerate any suggestion of a natural explanation for creation of the universe, creation of the earth, or the creation of man.  Johnson's view seems to be that certain things related to Christian theology should be off limits to ANY sort of scientific examination.  In spite of the failings of the author, the publisher has presented the book well.  The physical quality is quite good and belies the sloppiness of the writing.  I am not sure if this is the best place to get an understanding of the thinking behind the anti-evolution movement but I think it is a good place to start.  I suspect the muddled and misguided presentation of the author is endemic to this type of book.  It is also an outgrowth of the book's basic conceit, that a lawyer can provide objective insights into science.  In fact, scientists may pretend to objectivity but lawyers specialize in advocacy and this book presents a lawyer at his worst.  He misreads evolutionary theory as meaningless.  In fact it provides a predictive model.  Organisms are the sum total of both ancestral characteristics and those variations which permit the organism to function and survive within its environment. It is a fundamental point that gives the theory its strength, something which Johnson either does not understand or choses to ignore.  Unfortunately, there is no voice to correct him.  If Johnson proves anything, it is that when he is permitted to provide the defense, he can win any prosecution.  Putting a dead man on trial with no voice raised in his defense: this must be an attorney's dream come true
