I totally expected more from this book. But all this book has is just this COMPLETELY ONE-SIDED sob story about a semi-victim to a psychopath. the beginning really captured me, the way SP can charm a person is so deceitful that it gave me chills. but it got worse and worse and worse and worse. Yes, I do feel enormous sorry for Amber Frey, Yes, what she did was both very good and couragous. But she tried too hard to make people feel sorry for her, believe it or not, before this novel I felt she was a really brave and sympathetic-able person, after this book I feel she's kind of a self-righteous bit***
Why?
throughout this book she tries so desperately to show just how good a person she is, that she wants to help Lacie's family, that she cries for the victims, that what she's doing is very good and brave etc etc etc. For half of the book she uses quotes from the Bible to say that God is on her side and that she's God's instrument blah blah blah. So the impression I got? simple, that she's glorifying herself. Her story is SO COMPLETELY one-sided that it sickens me, and made me believe less and less of what she's telling. She uses SO MANY quotes of people who praises her, but very VERY few of those who criticize her. Yes, I get it, Amber, what you are doing is great, but don't you know that when you try THIS hard to tell people just how good you are that it's kinda like reverse psychology?
And NO, don't expect any insight on Scott Peterson, there's almost nothing on really why he killed his wife and son, almost no insight on the trials, basically what scientific facts there are that leads to the verdict. Even though I believe Frey was a big part in leading the verdict, I don't believe she's THE ONLY big part, I was hoping to get some info about the trial, but no, it's just all sobbings and quotes from the bible and praises for Amber etc etc etc. Believe me, you can stop reading when you get to the part where she's working for the police, that's where all the sob-stories break out. 
And what I got from Scott Peterson? that he's just so unbelievable stupid, to date someone RIGHT before he plans to kill his wife. That is SO GONNA TAKE HIM OFF THE SUSPECT LIST. And yes, I don't believe he can be THAT stupid, that's why I find most of Frey's story unbelievable, that it's like Peterson condamned himself. I don't believe the whole case is as simple as Peterson met another woman and therefore he killed Lacie, that's why I wanted some insight. Don't bother those who are interested, except for how good a charmer Scott is, there is no insight. 
In fact, Frey BARELY mentioned anything, I mean ANYTHING on her faults, she may not be responsible for the Peterson case, but she not PERFECT, it's common sense that people are not perfect, but she makes herself sound like a saint. I was deeply confused when she was pregnant with her son, was that Scott's son or Dave's?? I get the impression that it's Dave's. But nope, she did not write what happened between her and Dave, she did not state with whom she was impregnated. She skipped that part, and went on talking more about how saintly she is. In fact, she skipped on the details that would demean her and make her look like a religious hypocrite, sorry, didn't work, she's the most obvious hypocrite EVER simply by the fact that she seems SO DESPERTELY trying to prove how a good person she is by quoting from the Bible and people who praise her. Yeah, the novel really disgusted me when I finished the book, in fact, I'm pursuing a refund
