Time Enough For Love is one Heinlein's most famous books and is representative of his writing style, pacing and world view.  He touches upon many sociological subjects and tackles a number of interesting subjects and taboo mostly related to sex, incest the meaning of love.  That being said, after having his "big three" (Stranger In A Strange Land, The Moon is A Harsh Mistress and TEFL) I personally don't enjoy his work, I can understand why I'm in the minority.

TEFL follows the eternal Lazarus Long through his numerous adventures as he recounts his life while looking for reason to continue living.  The novel is divided up into four main sections uneven in length in quality.  There are times when Heinlein is right on target, examining social constructs, where they came from and how we deal with them.  Then there are times when there isn't much going on.

I think my two biggest problems with the novel were its structure and main character.  The makeup of the novel didn't lead to enough events happening nor did it produce any type of conflict normally needed to produce tension.  The novel is extensively dialogue driven and Shakespeare this is not.  Asimov got it right by mixing dialogue driven characters with at least some action but there is really very little going on in TEFL.  The one story that has some semblance of dramatic events (The Adopted Child) is clearly everyone's favorite.

As the main character Lazarus Long is lacking.  I kept drawing parallels between him and another famous fictional character: Lestat de Lioncourt from Rice's Vampire novels.  Both obviously share the immortal parallel but Lestat's personality and flaws made him much more interesting as a character.  Perhaps Long is a characterization of Heinlein himself and as we all know fiction is better then reality.

This book was nominated for the Hugo and Nebula in 1974.  A particularly amazing year with Clark's Rendezvous With Rama and Niven's Protector also in the mix.  Rendezvous is in a whole different playing field then the rest and won both awards hands down and deservedly so.

Bottom Line:  Maybe a must read for Heinlein aficionados and readers of classic sci-fi but this just doesn't work as social sci-fi for me.  Also the book is just too long
