The original "Secret of Shadow Ranch" was published by the syndicate responsible for all the Nancy Drew books in the 1930s.  In the 1950s, the book was updated, and the plot was changed almost COMPLETELY, but the title remained the same.  So if you find an old copy of this book, or a first edition of this book -- basically anything besides the book pictured on this page with the yellow cover -- then you are not going to get the same story.  I came to this realization after checking out the old copy from my school's library, reading it, and finding it boring, which I never remembered any Nancy Drew mystery being.  After coming here to read the reviews, I finally figured out why.

The newer version of the story, as other reviewers have indicated, involves a ghost horse of some kind.  I'll leave them to talk about that one because I can't remember it.  But the older story is just about Nancy and her friends Bess and George taking a trip to Arizona for the summer, staying at a ranch, and being on vacation.  100 pages into the book, there's no indicaion of any "secret" at the ranch, but there are some weak hints about secrets that other people might have, involving a kidnapped little girl, a medically naive case of amnesia and a long-lost father miraculously returning home.  The story is weak, because it's not very interesting to read, it's predictable, and worst of all is the fact that Nancy manages to "solve" two mini-mysteries with one simple telegram from her father, who did all the sleuthing on his own outside the plot.  

I can deal with everyone living happily ever after (except the criminals) because that's what I've come to expect from a Nancy Drew plot.  But in the other books, Nancy earns it.  In this book, all she does is open a telegram and suddenly she has all the answers.  Boring!  The only things given any real detail along the way are the girls' trips into the mountains (most of which end badly) and Nancy's use of some questionable tactics to get what she wants.  Plus the bad guys are allowed to just walk away!!  What kind of Nancy Drew plot ends with that kind of let down?

Another interesting point is Nancy's use of a gun in this book.  She actually kills several animals with it while the girls are in the mountains on hiking trips.  I am fairly certain that she would never dream of handling a gun in the other books, and in fact, I don't even remember the criminals having any.  Don't they usually just tie people up or something?

Overall this is a dull, meandering story that isn't in line with the Nancy Drew stories we've come to love and expect.  Stick to the yellow-cover version if you want a good adventure, and seek this version out only if you're a collector.  It's not interesting enough for much else
