I have been studying the development of reason in Western civilization for more than a decade, but I consider myself a decided amateur in this matter. I eagerly seized upon this book the instant I learned of it. I knew that the Church made many important contributions to the development of Western rationalism and I was excited to obtain a detailed explication of those contributions.

What a shock it was to read this shoddy, illogical, work! The author spends his time grinding axes, not exploring ideas. He is out to disprove almost all of modern Western historical scholarship, and so he takes potshots at just about every Enlightenment author he can, and most twentieth century historians as well. I enjoy an author with a controversial case to make, but not when I am subjected to polemics rather than logic.

This book teems with distortions, misleading statements, wild unsupported claims, and outright falsehoods. I gave up attaching annotated yellow stickies after page 50 -- there were too many errors!

The most serious intellectual sin here is Stark's fast and loose definition of the term "Dark Ages". He uses it loosely to describe the period between the fall of the Roman Empire and the Renaissance -- roughly 500 AD to 1450 AD. That's not the way I have seen the term used. Most historians use "Dark Ages to refer to the time from 500 AD to about 1000 AD. The period from 1000 AD to 1450 AD is usually referred to as "The Middle Ages". By using this term fluidly, Stark is able to create all manner of misleading impressions.

For example, he devotes a number of pages to reciting the litany of European technological achievements during the "Dark Ages". What he doesn't say is that almost all of those achievements occurred AFTER 1000 AD, and many arose in the century before the Renaissance. Stark wants to prove that Christianity was responsible for all that technology -- but if so, why did 800 years elapse (from Constantine to 1100 AD) before all those benefits of Christianity appeared?

His errors of fact kept my eyes opening wider and wider. On page 45, he attributes the inventions of the stirrup and heavy cavalry to the Franks, but we have plenty of evidence of the use of the stirrup before the Franks, and the evidence suggests that it appeared in the Eurasian steppes much earlier. And what about the Byzantine cataphracts?

Although I didn't find any bloopers on page 46, there is one startling error on page 47. Referring to the compass, Stark claims that "the Chinese may not, in fact, have used this device aboard ships until long after Europeans were doing so." But in fact, the first mention of the use of a compass in navigation is Chinese and dates from 1117 AD; the first European mention of the use of a compass in navigation dates from 1190 AD.

Here's another howler, from page 48: "...aside from bringing grain to feed the city of Rome's swollen and idle population, long-distance Roman trade mainly dealt in luxuries and was unproductive -- trade played little role in the life of Roman cities." If trade was so insignificant, why did the Romans maintain a navy even after conquering the Mediterranean littoral? The historians that Stark treats with contempt explain that the Romans needed to keep piracy at bay. But if trade wasn't important economically, why bother keeping a navy afloat? And what about those thousands and thousands of amphorae that have been found in Roman shipwrecks all over the Mediterranean? The no-goodnik historians that Stark condemns tells us that they carried wine and olive oil in huge quantities. But since, according to Stark, Roman trade dealt only with luxury goods, then wine and olive-oil must have been luxury goods, right? Except for the fact that they played a large part in the diet of the average classical citizen. Even Jesus drank wine -- was he one of the super-rich too?

Stark tells us on page 49 that Roman "carts and wagons were so primitive that seldom was anything of any weight carried far overland." Perhaps Stark should visit Rome and look at the Coliseum -- its stones didn't come from the immediate neighborhood and there are thousands and thousands of tons of them. In fact, all of Europe is dotted with huge Roman ruins built from heavy stonework that had to be carried from somewhere. And if Stark had ever bothered to read Caesar's Gallic Wars, he'd read lots of mentions of the wagon trains that always accompanied every Roman army. 

On page 51, Stark reveals the surprising fact that the violin (among other instruments) was perfected in the Dark Ages. That's just flat wrong. It first appeared in Italy in the 1500s -- long after the Dark Ages ended, even by Stark's own expansive definition.

These are just a few of the gross blunders I found in just a few pages of the book. There are many, many more -- I chose these to demonstrate how densely packed the errors are. 

The sad thing about this book is that Stark did not have to lie and distort the truth to make his basic point. The Church played a major and positive role in the development of Western Civilization. It embraced the best parts of classical civilization, improved upon them, and transmitted them to modernity. Once rationalism took hold, things got out of hand (from the Church's point of view) and the Church found itself on the wrong side of the advance of rationalism. Stark goes too far, and in the process succeeds only in discrediting himself. He ascribes freedom, individualism, democracy, science, technology, and capitalism to Christianity, yet not ONE of these concepts is promulgated in the Bible. Every single one of these concepts does appear in classical Greek civilization. Christianity did not create any of these ideas; it embraced them. Christianity deserves great respect for the manner in which it salvaged what was best of classical civilization and preserved and promulgated it. But Christianity was not perfect, nor was it the savior of all mankind. We can give it its due without engaging in cheap hagiography and gross distortions and lies
