I really got a lot out of Babywise - my daughter was sleeping through the nite at 5 weeks.  And now that she's almost 14 months, I thought it natural to buy Toddlerwise.  Even after reading the negative reviews, I still wanted to read the book to make my own judgment.  But the only new information I learned was in one chapter that's not even written by Ezzo.  And I got nothing out of that chapter - maybe some parents would be able to tell their toddler to sit on a blanket and play with a specific toy ("Provide a few toys but instruct your toddler to stay on the blanket until Mommy says its time to get off." p.45), but my daughter wouldn't be able to sit still for a minute!  And I feel it's criminal to restrict any child to a blanket for a set time with a timer - let alone a toddler!  I'm all for structure and routine, and we have a fairly structured day at home.  But the sample daily routine that is offered seems so micro-managed, I'm not sure how any parent would have time to do anything else but manage their child's playtime!  Here's the example from p.61 (paraphrased):

"7am - Get children up & dressed, breakfast
8am - Free Play Time
9:30am - Structured Play Time
10am - Blanket Time
10:30am - Structured Time with Mom
11:30am - Structured Time with Siblings
12pm - Lunch, clean up, read books until nap
1pm - Nap
3pm - Gym Class
4pm - Structured Play Time with Siblings
4:30pm - Blanket Time
5pm - Video Time
5:30pm - Dinner, clean up, etc (Mom&Dad - Couch Time)
6:30pm - Family Time with Dad & Mom
7pm - Time with Dad
7:30pm - Bedtime"

This example is a simplified version - it's more complicated because the 2 siblings are sometimes doing different things.  I chose to paraphrase just one of the siblings' schedules here.  I would highly suggest not buying this book - it's a waste of money.  Most of the negative comments are warranted - I couldn't imagine ever treating my daughter the way that Ezzo suggests in this book.  Even after using the Babywise method, I still feel that using the ideologies in this book border on neglect!  Please don't do such a dis-service to your children
