A very entertaining and well written history, but the passionate arguments against government taxation and regulation of smoking (hot political topics these days) are hard to take seriously.

Gately denies that second hand smoke poses any danger at all to non-smokers.  He is convinced that advertising restrictions, cigarette taxes, public smoking bans, and public service ads have no effect on how much people actually smoke.  (They merely infringe on the "rights of smokers.")  He ridicules the notion that cigarette smoke could be harmful to children.

His humor is usually enjoyable, but it is sometimes inappropriate (smoking-related deaths are actually a fairly serious matter), and it is sometimes hard to tell when he is joking.  For example, he cites UK government data that smokers die 16 years earlier than non-smokers and talks about all the money this saves the government in pensions, adding, "It follows that it would be financial madness for the British government to ban smoking, and unless a better argument than its official estimated death toll of 120,000 smokers per annum can be found, smoking is unlikely to be prohibited in the British Isles."  Is this funny?  Am I supposed to laugh or cry?

Gately frequently comes across as a loving mother who has discovered her son is a killer and has not quite come to terms with the fact.  She can't help wishing for him to succeed, even while acknowledging her sympathy is problematic and recognizing the irony of her situation.

Still, only a true tobacco believer could write in his concluding paragraph that "to the 1.2 billion smokers of the world, tobacco is not just a killer, but a pleasure, a comforter, and a friend...  Tobacco has recently been discovered to protect against some of the most devastating ailments of old age, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.  It has also been shown to guard against cancer of the womb....  Many great men and women have left elegant testimonies to their tobacco habits, which will be joined, I believe, with others made in centuries to come."
