I haven't studied math in many years, and I wanted to freshen up my skills. I was never a math wiz, but I'm certainly competent at the basics. When you get beyond the basics, my brain starts hurting a bit though. Unfortunately, this book is so poorly written that even the basics made my brain hurt.

First off, contrary to what the title and cover suggest, this book contains almost no information on the basics. Addition, subtraction, multiplication and division are all covered in less then a page and a half. But don't get your hopes up... He doesn't actually tell you how to DO multiplication (for example). He tells you that multiplication is represented by a "x". The actual process of doing multiplication is apparently left as an excercise for the reader. 

Ok, no problem. Like I said, I'm pretty good on the basics, I wanted something a bit more advanced anyway. Unfortunately, what information is here is presented so badly that you pretty much need to be a mathmetician to read it (in which case you probably don't need this book). Take the section on primes from p. 12: "Let p be a nonzero natural number. Suppose ab = p, where a and b are natural numbers. Further suppose that either of the following statements are true for all a and b: (a = 1) & (b = p) or (a = p) & (b = 1). Then p is considered a prime number. In other words, a natural number p is prime if and only if it's two natural number factors are 1 and itself". That's demystifying? Primes are a pretty simple topic, but you'd never guess it from that definition. I have since picked up a different book "Math the Easy Way" (by Anthony Prindle) which has this to say on the subject: "A prime number is a whole number whose only divisors are 1 and itself". Not only is this definiton MUCH more clear, it's less then a quarter the length. If the goal is to demystify a subject, you should use the least complicated language possible to effectively explain the subject, and this book fails miserably on that front.

This may be a great book if you are already well versed in moderately advanced math. If you're looking for a more basic math refresher, this will not do you any good at all. I havn't read much of Math the Easy Way yet, but so far it's been head & shoulders above this at demystifing everday math for me
