Book starts of with "Is this a Con?" like it's a hint of what's to come.  Childish stories about how the doctrines of the Worldwide Church were all
wrong and suddenly needed to be changed. Maybe the recruitment tactics were not working anymore; or the false prophecies, scandals and financial ruin of its members had taken their toll on the organization. It was time to turn this thing 180' around, but what they did sunk the ship, and maybe that was their intent! Sure sounds like a conspiracy theory, and sure enough it seemed that way as the news of coming changes leaked out, only to confuse the once faithful. Why would ministers preach what they didn't believe? Well the money and benefits were pretty good. Strange how the sabbath changed along with unclean meats, holydays, tithing, healing, etc. Looks like Tkatch found the stairway to heaven, and Armstrong was no longer the infallible pope. Even the holy spirit changed into a person. And what the pagan trinity and the symbol of the cross became Kosher?
The book mentions Herbert W Armstrong being the master salesman, and like
a bar a soap he had to make his church unique so his followers would use no other. He started positioning his product by identifying all others as inferior or even worthless, as misleading, as spurious and even hurtful. Of course, he will have to use basically the same ingredients for his soap that they do in theirs, but will change the name of those ingredients. We were told that we were the "only true" soap. So when Tkatch and Co. began admitting  we weren't the only real soap out there, it all started to look so bogus. In their disillusionment many members started spinning off to splinter groups. Quite a few abandoned religion altogether and tried to live a normal life again. That was the real transformation as nauseating and heart breaking as you would ever experience. How could we have believed such things? By the means of Fear Induction Psychology and Mind Control by its leaders, this cult and its many divisions have manipulated the lives of its members and destroyed their lives. The book ends up bashing old Armstrong pretty well, but contradictorily says they are not judging him. Makes it worth the $1.09 the printed version is going for, but do a search and save the postage, unless you need the kindling.

For the survivors: "Does anyone remember laughter?"
