Given that this is the man who claimed to have predicted the fall of the Soviet Union years before it occurred, I had high hopes for this book. Unfortunately after having read this dirge, I'm suspicious that Todd would be incapable of predicting what day tomorrow is. 

The book starts with a self promoting preface, wherein Todd tries to play up some vague Pro American sympathies he professes to have, which given the later content is somewhat reminiscent of Robert Mugabe's early eulogising of white farmers in Zimbabwe.

Todd's book has two main premises, one, that the US is a spent power, using it's military to intimidate other nations into providing it the capital and goods that it needs to continue it's parasitic existence. The other that Europe (A united superpower version of the EU, which doesn't actually exist), Russia and Japan should realise they are the masters of the earth, not the US. (He seems to periodically forget China exists). 

To support this disturbed worldview, he proceeds to give bizarre, specious arguments using faulty logic. (The US is equally to blame for the Russian situation in Chechnya was one eyebrow raising example - although in this case, it was probably driven by his desire to portray Russia as a positive force compared to the wicked US).

His main arguments are basically vague attempts at portraying a world he would like to see (Europe, specifically France, as a global colossus, bolstered by the Economic and military might of Russia and Japan). He brushes over such things as the demographic meltdown of Germany, presenting it as a positive force since it means that Germany will eventually shrink to about the same size population as France, at which point the Franco - German axis will be a partnership of equals! 

The peculiar self-deluding bigotry that permeates the French so called elite. is present in spades in this book, and unfortunately just comes across , as a wish list from a man who  hasn't realised that his countries imperial days ended in 1945. 

A huge disappointment, I had hoped for an insightful analysis of the real problems that afflict the US, not a bigoted attack shrouded in pseudo intellect and drowned in meaningless statistics. 


