Being the shortest of Shakespearian tragedies, Macbeth would be the logical choice of play to receive the graphic novel treatment. This book, retelling a somewhat truncated version of "the Scottish play," is one of the more recent attempts which capitalizes on the metaphysical elements, while transposing a unique futuristic setting (the opening caption puts the tale in "Stardate: 1040," the King's men ride dragons, and even the Weird Sisters appear as androids). 

However, there is a definite sense that the finished product does not live up to the initial aspirations. Though the text is wholly comprised of critical lines gleaned from the original text (including a few superfluous but wholly memorable ones, such as Macbeth's "We have scorched the snake, not killed it" and the witty dialogue between MacDuff's wife and child), the story does not retain the proper flow of the original play. In adapting the story, too much has been lost for the sake of brevity, and thus are the characterizations fatally flawed. One feels little sympathy (much less empathy) with the tragic hero because his transformation from nobility to barbarism is almost immediate, allowing no opportunity to be drawn into his formerly held virtue. In fact, the only portrayal whose death I felt was that of Banquo (and Shakespeare's Macbeth is rife with such unjust murder and assassination)!

Likewise, Mr. Tamai's artwork is competant at best, if inconsistent. The lush style of illustration remains intact for all of 55 pages before degenerating into a completely different one, as if the pages were incomplete at the time of publication. The expressive eyes and astute detail return some twenty pages later, but soon dissipate back to the "new" style. It could be argued that this sharp shift in drawing style is a microcosm representative of Scotland's descent into madness, though for such a purpose it is sadly ineffective.

Together, both the text and the illustration occasionally work against each other, providing not so much complimentary story-telling techniques, but distraction. This is, unfortunately, especially prominent in the first few pages of the book, where the witches deliver their opening lines and the King's fighting men speak poetically during a complex, heavily detailed battle. The beauty of Shakespeare's words are combined with Mr. Tamai's fantastic rendering of a futuristic skirmish, yet the two provide such a juxtaposition as to render a steep mount of confusion.

Helpful would be some form of "spacing," or the use of separations signifying the breaks in the play's Acts (the short book's "chapters," if you will). Also, a brief description of the cast of characters would aid the reader in discerning who's who (since the book does run shorter than the play upon which it is based, thereby creating a minuscule window of opportunity into which the uninitiated reader may enter). Finally, a well-versed knowledge of the original play would assist the reader in getting through the entire book, as the book by itself neither involves nor moves the reader.

It is a lofty aspiration for Penguin Graphics to attempt such an adaptation, so it is especially disappointing that such a valiant effort should fall so short.
