I ordered this book with high hopes.  The reviews led me to believe it offered concrete suggestions for pressing problems.  It just isn't so.

This book seems to be primarily for people who want to rationalize the status quo: others suffer for reasons you can't influence, you are a good person for just talking about problems in the world while doing nothing about them, etc.  If you believe people who suffer get what they deserve or are simply a side-effect of the glorious free market then this book will be laughable to you.  If you believe making the world better for everyone is the primary obligation for members of "good society" then this book will be disappointing to you.

Etzioni mouths some standard platitudes, for example that we need universal health care, but inevitably either guts his statements by describing that he means something entirely different from what is understood by those statements or he backpedals furiously.  Sometimes he does both at once.

Here's a prime example, again regarding health care: "However, securing everyone a rich basic minimum of health care as a start should no longer be delayed if we seriously seek to move toward a good society".  What exactly is the oxymoronic "rich basic minimum" to which he refers?  We just don't know, and subsequent pages are no help.  As Etzioni reminds us often, this is something for further discussion (outside his book, of course) and dialogue.

From the merely comical "rich basic minimum", we move to the stunningly wrongheaded comment that "there is a profound tension between treating people as ends and as a source of profit".  There is nothing profound about this, nor is there tension except when the market is allowed to have its way with few controls.  Rather than taking the much more "people as ends" focused view that the market must serve society and must be constrained when it fails in that role, Etzioni asks us to believe that we shouldn't always treat other people as people - sometimes they really are commodities to be bought and sold for money.

Perhaps I am especially disappointed because I had such high hopes for this book.  I'm sticking with Amartya Sen and Wendell Berry because even if I don't always agree with them, I can always tell that they care deeply for others and want to offer suggestions for improving the world, not empty cliches
