 Wanting something to read on vacation, I hurriedly grabbed the Vintage paperback edition from a dusty shelf in the back of my home office.  The book had belonged to my stepson many years ago. As I thumbed through the pages, it began to fall apart.

 I do not recall having to read The Sound and the Fury in college, but I knew it was famous.  Other than that, I came to the book with an open mind but expecting excellence.  To that end, I was sorely disappointed, despite some fine passages, but even those often contained unclear elements.  

 From the start the story came across as gibberish.  Time jumped around, and characters appeared with little or no introduction.  Gradually a sense of story began to sink in, but by then, what might have been significant in the earlier pages was already lost to me.  I wondered what connection the title had to the story.  I struggled through the entire book, finding later sections to be more coherent, particularly the last, but I was unable to gain a full appreciation of the story.  And I wasn't about to reread the book repeatedly to obtain it.

 There seems to be no effort at word economy, particularly in dialogue.  There are endless rambling paragraphs and only four "chapters" for the 400 pages of text.

 Worst of all, there is inadequate exposition throughout the book.  There is no introduction telling the reader how the book is constructed, most notably, that it begins with an account by an idiot.  The idea of having a family's story related by several  members if fine, so is writing in stream of conscious, but adequate exposition is needed to orient the reader.  

 Frustrated during the reading, I thumbed through it and discovered the appendix which described the Compson family.  Most of this material should have been presented early in the book, but even that would not have provided adequate exposition.  After reading the book, I learned that the appendix was added some time after the first edition to help the reader.  That should be a big hint that the book is lacking in exposition.  I believe that good exposition is the responsibility of a writer.

 This book is more of a puzzle than a story, and the latter is sacrificed for the former.  The author does not lead you through the story; he throws you into it.  For those who marvel at the literary value of this book, I say, "The emperor has no clothes.
