Early in the text Cashdan makes clear the fact that fairy tales were never intended as children's stories, nor were they meant to convey lessons. Rather, they were a source of entertainment and adventure for adults - characteristics that made the same stories viable later to be adapted for children. He asserts that, rather than teaching specific moral lessons, fairy tales do help children learn to deal with the struggles of everyday life, particularly struggles with what he terms "the seven deadly sins of childhood:" vanity, gluttony, greed, sloth, envy, lust, and deceit. He asserts that the tales teach children through subtle means to resolve "struggles between the positive and negative forces in the self." 

Cashdan characterizes the witch-villain as an external manifestation and magnification of the child-hero/ine's inner flaws. Later he states that good and bad female figures relate to the child's positive and negative experiences with the mother figure in her life (never addressing the fact that the good mother is almost always dead or absent in the stories). Cashdan quickly dismisses the possibility of misogyny in the negative portrayal of stepmothers and female villains simply  because fairy tales aren't meant to be taken as faithfully realistic. 

Later still he returns to the idea of the witch as representative of the hero/ine's sinful characteristics. The primary premise of his text is that the "Witch must die because the witch embodies the sinful parts of the self." This concept reinforces the patriarchal implication that evil is feminine in nature and suggests that it is the "negative" female aspects of the child's character which must be annihilated in order for her to live happily ever after. 

Cashdan also claims that witches in fairy tales are often depicted as cannibalistic in order to identify them as fully repugnant and therefore deserving of annihilation; in fact, cannibalism was perceived as an earmark of witchcraft during the European witch hunts. This simple statement (as well as his flaccid bibliography) betrays the fact that Cashdan's text is poorly researched and that he often substitutes speculation for informed observations. Due to its inherent inconsistencies and oversights, Cashdan's text is utterly useless unless to provide points to argue against
