Having been famous all over eastern Europe for its beauty and splendor, the amber room's unsolved disappearance in 1945 caused a true flood of unbridled speculations. The mystery proved itself extremely fertile for all sorts of fantasy-stories, mystery-novels, faked history reviews and other nonsense.

What is known & proven: after having been conquered by Adolf Hitler's soldiers in 1941, the room was transported from its palace outside Leningrad (= nowadays' St.-Petersburg) to the German city of Konigsberg (= nowadays' Russian Kaliningrad). On its way some of its items were stolen by German soldiers. Having arrived at Konigsberg, the room was exhibited in the local castle. In the second half of worldwar 2, when the danger of Allied bombing steadily increased, the amber room was stored for safety in the castle's cellars. 

From this point knowledge stops and speculation sets in. In August 1944 Konigsberg was bombed twice. Its castle, right in the city centre, was hit and burned out completely. In April 1945 Konigsberg was captured by the Soviet army in savage streetfighting. In other words, from the moment of its storage opportunities for destruction had been plenty. The more so, while amber burns very well from itself.

Destruction of works of art surely was quite common in those terrible days in eastern Europe. Many of them vanished without trace. The difference with the amber room is only made by the latter's huge reputation, promptly turning its unrecorded disappearance into a legend.

I think it makes more sense to turn to the reality of our days. Sponsored by 'Ruhrgas AG', a German firm dealing in Russian gas, the amber room has been rebuilt with great Russian craftsmanship. In May 2003 Russian president Putin and German chancellor Schroder officially re-opened it. 

The truly magnificent replica has been enrichened by one of its authentic panels. Presenting us with an Italian landscape made from colored stone, this panel was one of the items stolen in 1941. After having decorated an ordinary German living room for many years, it was traced by the police and returned to the Russians.

Purchasing a book or DVD on the replica surely is worth your money. You'll find them on many a German site. It makes more sense than losing yourself in all sorts of idle speculation.  

