This book was well written and entertaining until the end.  I gave him one star for knowing how to write.  Mr. Blankley told the story of the threat we face quite skillfully but in the end he dropped the ball and really didn't have any ground breaking suggestions or creative ideas as to how to avert the disasters that are sure to come.    

Mr Blankley's ideas: Declare war on the terrorists, do some intense ethnic profiling, lock Muslims up in camps, make life more miserable for our enemy wherever and whenever we can and cross our fingers, pretty well sums it up.  


Does he really think that making life tougher for the terrorists, who are used to considerable hardship (more than most of us would be able to tolerate) and willing to die for their cause, is going to stop or even just control them?  

George W. Bush likes to pretend that the terrorists struck the first blow on 9/11, that the clock started ticking on that day  and we are now just busy retaliating.  Mr Blankley measures the start of the terrorist problem to an Egyptian cleric in the 1960's.  Folk's I don't want to burst anyones bubble here but America has been dickering around in the middle east ever since the first drop of oil was taken out of the ground there.  As soon as we figured we needed that oil the Arabs were in trouble.  We haven't been able to keep our hands off that region since.  Getting leaders deposed or killed, installing and/or supporting dictatorship governments, suppling weapons to one side and then sometimes to both sides, encouraging and supporting countries to fight surrogate wars for our benefit, bombing the crap out of them and then invading and occupying Muslim Holy Lands, and the list goes on and on from the start of the twentieth century through to the present day.  And anyone who thinks there is an end in site is hallucinating.  Forget about all this "The reason they hate us is because we support Isreal" nonsense, America had done more than enough before Arab land was given to the Jews to make enemies that will last for hundreds of years.  

It is not lost on Muslims that we are willing to sacrifice as many of their lives as it takes to get what we want.  And what might that be?  Why of course, influence and control of the middle east and the oil it produces.

Some may think that we (Americans) are somehow entitled to do whatever it takes to people from other countries in order to maintain and improve our standard of living and that's all well and good but they must also realize that there will be consequences and a heavy price to pay.  All indications are that in the eye's of the terrorists 9/11 was just a down payment.   

We have made an enemy out of people who are now fighting for their culture and their way of life.  People who see our way of life as a cancer to them.  People who live in a culture where grudges are held onto for thousands of years and some of them  are now willing to give up their lives to kill us.  Whether we think we are right or wrong that is the reality we face.  We are in deep trouble, Mr Blankley and you are going to have to come up with something better than just tightening the screws to impress or defeat this enemy.   
