I really wanted THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES because I thought that the story of the Mothman would be fascinating reading, a really intriguing narrative of the sightings of the tall, grayish man with wings and red eyes who could take off in flight straight up off the ground, an interesting examination of the myth and the legend. There is something to me very frightening about this type of legend, and I was eager to read the exploration of sightings around Point Pleasant, Va., in 1966 and 1967 before the Silver Bridge collapsed and nearly 40 area residents died in the tragedy. What a great tale could be told, I thought...

I am still waiting. This book is not well structured or told. It seems to be the dumping ground of every otherwordly event Keel has ever seen or heard of. There is little narrative arc here or suspense. Keel has the mistaken notion that loading the book with every bizarre occurence he's ever been told or witnessed gives him credibility, but it is actually the opposite. He and his "colleagues" saw so many UFOs and strange lights in the sky in West Virginia (and other places across the country) in the late 1960s, that one simply cannot believe that there isn't more corroboration of these sightings. 

Keel does say that he doesn't believe in beings from other planets, but rather beings from a dimension outside of our own who like to make trouble for us, find things out about us, and sometimes warn us of things that are going to happen. Because of their inexperience with earth time, they often use out of date slang and drive old cars that are in mint condition and still smell new. For some unexplained reason, the "people" from this other dimension seem always to wear thick-soled shoes. 

Keel as a true believer is a poor writer of a convincing book, as he often justifies a witnesses credibility by saying that they are respectable people, or some such qualifier. He anticipates, then, no need the reader might have to be convinced that thousands of sightings of UFOs and Mothman may need some evidentiary backup. This lack of the writer's disbelief and proof, the lack of any plot or arc and the muddled content of the book make this work a solid disappointment. Someone needs to let me know if the book that can be written about this ever is written
