For me, reading this book had all the interest and enjoyment of a visit to the dentist's office. Is the author biased? You bet he is! This work seems designed to give the impression that the Comanche Indians were the most noble, most hard-done-by group of Red Aristocrats you could ever hope to hear about. And, equally of course, there is the severe glorification of Comanche war capabilities, social customs, etc.
Let me put this into perspective for you and then offer you a much better book if you're interested in a TRUE, first-hand version of the life and habits of the southern nomadic tribes.
First, the Comanches were the most prolific Indians on the continent. Their numbers ( at their zenith ) were about 20,000 which is significant for stone age nomads. Their success against Anglos, Spanish, Mexican peons, and other Indians was simply a result of their tactic of swarming over an enemy with overwhelming numbers - not their "legendary horsemanship", bravery, or other such nonsense. And, the title of this book is very misleading. The Comanches were not destroyed - not by a long shot. They actually got off lucky and never really suffered serious, long-term war with the United States Army or had their numbers decimated to next to nothing as was the case with many other Indian tribes. For the amount of butchery and sadistic brutality the Comanches perpetrated against others, they actually got away with next to no punishment AND they proved themselves perfectly happy to pursue the "destruction" of peoples - as long as they were the ones doing the destroying, of course. 
Now, if you want to read an excellent firsthand narrative on Indians and warfare in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Old Mexico, and California in the 1850's through to the 1870's, get "LIFE AMONG THE APACHES" by John C. Cremony - who was actually THERE at the time and dealing with the Apaches, Comanches, Kaddos, and others. Cremony's narrative blows books like this right out of the water in terms of accuracy and being an interesting read. And it also shows the gross falacies mentioned in this book, such as the superiority of the Comanche Indian in war. Cremony relates several incidents where Apaches defeated Comanches, one such being a battle witnessed on the Staked Plains of Texas east of the Pecos river when about seventy Apaches decisively defeated a force of upwards of one hundred and fifty Comanches. While it is true that the most eastern branch of the Apaches had to vacate living on the Texas plains because of the superior numbers of the Comanches ranging through the area, and because of the allinance of the Comanches with the Utes against these eastern Apaches, they never stopped fighting the Comanches and often ventured onto the plains to do battle and, more often than not, defeated the Comanches. So much for the much touted "Lords of the Southern Plains" title that has been awarded to the Comanches by their politically correct admirers. 
Get Cremony's book - available right here at amazon.com and forget about this and others like it written by present day sob-story artists. You won't be sorr
