Speaking as someone who has been both fat and thin in my life I can honestly say this book did nothing for me. I do believe that all women are beautiful and we all should love our bodies. However, I don't think this book gets that message across! It sounds like the person who wrote this is no expert and is angry because she looks the way she does, failed to find a solution and is looking to tell the world how we should think and what we should find attractive. Besides that, it's kind of a one-sided book and repetitive. Also, I beg anyone claiming that being fat is healthy to look at the statistics again. Close to 60% of people in America are overweight, possibly more. This includes children. We are far bigger than we were 100 years ago and ingest far larger portions of food. Heart attacks are killing more and more people and it's victims are getting younger, sometimes even children and people under 30 years old. Sure, some people can be fat and healthy but those cases are so rare they are certainly not the majority. I do agree that pushing images of too-skinny supermodels is a bad thing but I don't think pushing overweight models would be any better. If you are overweight and looking to feel better about yourself, you might like this book. If you are like me and actually did something about the things you disliked, this will sound like a really whiny, excuse filled, negitive book. Yes, I work out to be healthy. Yeah looking better is a nice feeling but certainly not as important as how I feel. No, I don't want to look like a supermodel. I loved my body fat and I love it now, that's why I lost the weight to begin with. I want to live as long as I can in this body and feel the best I can instead of feeling slow, tired and heavy like I used be. I feel much better, my chronic foot pain went away and I have lots more energy. I work out 5 days per week and make a good living teaching others to be healthier too. This book does nothing to help people in the long run, it's just someone's angry rant about their warped perspective! Being obese isn't healthy and that's why people think it looks ugly, it's not because we are a brainwashed, shallow society! And no, being fat is not a fate worse than death, it IS death and kills millions of people every year!    
