This is a "reprint" of the original 1961 (and reprints) Van Nostrand Reinhold printing with ISBN # 0-442-20786-7. Schiffer Publishing LTD produced their edition by photographing a copy of the original book from Nostrand and has done a horrible job of it. The original artwork and illustrations where obviously not at Schiffer's disposal. The color reproduction quality is very, VERY poor and does no justice to the text portion. However, if the original book is out of print and there is nothing else available, then you would have to go by life's principle "something is better than nothing." The original book would have gotten a 4-star rating. As a painter who paints realistically convincing artwork from  the imagination and memory, this book was the best book at the time (got it in 1982) while a young painter searching for answers about color. If I could find one piece of information that helped me improve my painting then the book was worth it. This book (the original one) had many such pieces of vital information leading to actual improvement, not useless "inspiration" or "eye candy" or "fine prose" (one person I knew rejected this book solely on the "simplistic, child-like" way it was written). It all depends on what you want to do and accomplish with your painting or color work. For this purpose any textbook on any subject could be rated based on the question "did it help improve your understanding and skills?" Now that I have surpassed many color books (I have hundreds of books on color) in knowledge and insight, I have come to realize some important points regarding textbooks in relation to the subject presented: (1) A text book could contain false information - not a good thing. (2) A text book could contain irrelevant information - even if "correct" does more harm than good. (3) A textbook could be missing vital information on the subject presented - extremely lethal! (4) The correct, relevant information may be out of sequence and/or over or under stressed in importance relative to one another - some concepts/techniques are more advanced than others and require more fundamental knowledge/skills as prerequisites for their understanding and mastery. (5) Beginners, and even teachers, may not be aware of (1) to (4) above. (6) Individuals attempting to learn or teach with textbooks with a preponderance of flaws (1) to (4) will not learn, improve or better their art and may even give up. In other words, (1) to (4) above are potential student killers! Creative Color has all four flaws, but not too severe. In comparison, the Itten book The Art of Color is loaded with false information and missing lots of vital information. Itten came across at first as very inspiring, but for what I wanted turned out to be useless. Joseph Albers is another case. Some day I'll do peace-meal reviews on these and other "best seller.
