This is not the worst book ever to grace the shelves of a library. Next time you enter one, take a look at the mystery/thriller section. I myself am an avid reader, perhaps 150 books a year. Most of them are in the mystery genre. Yet when confronted with a mystery section that has been compiling books for sixty years its hard to say that even 5% of the authors are familiar to me. Most of the books are covered with decades of dust and forgotten tombs of years gone by. That is the way 'Shadow Account' strikes me as being remembered in the years to come. It is a book you will find at the bottom of stacks in yard sales and church functions. This is not a book or an author whom like Chandler, Christie, or Hammett will be read far into the future.

The writing is plodding, sections of the novel are well done, but the tempo and style of these individual pieces clash with other sections so that you are left with a soup of mushy ideas. To put it another way, this book does not hold up well as a whole. 

Another thing is the plot. Frey starts the story off with a brutal murder in young Conner Ashby's apartment. Conner is pulling down a couple of hundred G's a year so this is probably a posh place were talking about. He is having a daliance with a lady, leaves to hit up the local supermarket, spends a few minutes there, comes back, and she is dead. Conner had recieved an email a few moments before he left and it comes to his attention that the murder was done so that the evidence of the email could be covered up. OK, I can live with that. But the way Frey unfolds it all is so goofy that it pretty much destroys the rest of the book. Some CEO character sends out an email to Conner and with in 20 minutes he hires a hit man, sends him to Conners place, tears it apart, kills a girl, and then confronts our protagonist. Conner then chases the bad guy around NY for an hour, comes back to his place with some cops, and everything that was destroyed is put back into place without a sign of anything wrong happening. Whats up with that?

I am not giving away anything here. This occurs in the first few pages and sets up the rest of the book. Conner just had the lady he loves murdered in his place and then over the next few chapters he misses time from his insanely competitive job to have flirtatious hours long conversations and seems to have not been affected at all by the terrifying events. Repetedly in this book he is attacked and then a few pages later he is suave and making moves with young ladies. 

This book is slow. This book goes into chapter long discources on the corruptability of fortune 500 companies. This book has long episodes of buildup that leads nowhere, not even as a diversionary plot thread.

All in all this is a trainwreck of a novel and I suggest that you leave it alone. I would point you towards 'Mystic River' by Lehane or 'Tell No One' by Coben for novels in this style that actually work
