First, let's begin with the premise that the collaberation of, at one time, in one relative place, and with (seemingly) one goal, those who have come to be collectively known as the Founding Fathers was, by any accounts, an extraordinary period in the history of humanity.  A Dream Team, if you will.

Second, let's remind ourselves that none of these men were devoid of their flaws.  Many, in retrospect, carried their warts and blemishes with a sense of pride, if not prominence.

While it is inevitable, and not inappropriate to find an interest in these founders and their various achievements so timely and exciting centuries after they did what they did, it is also inevitable that the lines of truth and accuracy have faded in the interim, and an honest interpretation of events between 1750 and 1820 requires of the interpretor an open mind, and a lack of preconceived notions.

Ms. Appleby has not satisfied that requirement in her Jefferson interpretation.

Appleby admits in the opening paragraphs to be an admirer, and continues to clarify that point throughout the book.  She sets Jefferson apart from the other 'founders,' who are minimized, if not dismissed as having provided less,if any substance to the drive for that ultimate goal.  Indeed, Appleby seems to be saying that the goals of the various gentlemen involved were so varied as to be in direct opposition to each other.

Moreover, Appleby outrightly idolizes Jefferson.  Her platitudes do not, however, shine any more light on the man, who certainly qualifies as one of the more secretive/introspective of the bunch.  Instead, one is left the option of accepting Jefferson as a Moses-like character, or of choosing to look elsewhere for a more in depth assessment of this certainly great man.

Other reviewers have noted her attention to Jefferson's issues with slavery, with women, with indians.  These are discussed, but rather than in a way that would try to find a root cause, or to compare them with other frailties in his character, the effort seems to be to offer them as some offset to the bulk of the material, which is close to hero worship.

There is enough information about Jefferson, even considering the depths of his persona, to identify some (but certainly not all) of the demons that tormented the man.  And also enough information to know that Jefferson was not immune to crossing the lines of decorum that separate the common man from the political climber.  But you wont find that discussion here.

In the end, we have yet another portrait of this man, who deserves his place in the pantheon, but ther is no flesh, no blood, no heart.  Just canvas
