After many years, I decided to finally give Kathy Reichs' Temperance Brennan series a go.  So, where better to start than her debut novel 'Deja Dead' which introduces Reichs' heroine.

Temperance Brennan is an American forensic anthropologist working in Montreal for what I'm guessing is the French-Canadian equivalent of a Medical Examiner's office.  Of course our heroine is head strong, independent, and unlucky in love (aren't they all?).  Well, some murders start turning up and, amazingly enough, our intrepid anthropologist is the only person that links the crimes together.  Do the police believe her?  No, so she must investigate the crimes on her own.  And by doing so, the murderer then turns his attention to Brennan and her family and friends (don't all killers eventually do that?).

First off, the book is bloated.  The book (at least the paperback version) clocks in at about 530 pages.  Reichs' writes too much about menial tasks that her character, Brennan, does during her usual day.  Does anyone really want to hear repeatedly about what a character had for dinner or what paperwork she does at work?  I know I don't want to read it.  Now I'm a person who enjoys a nice, long book but 'Deja Dead' (where did she get that title anyway?) is about two hundred pages too long.  And it is a very slow read.  

Secondly, her main character, Brennan, just isn't likeable.  In fact, I found her quite annoying.  The policemen in the novel are portrayed as incompetent, arrogant jerks who are too worried about being right than they are about doing the right thing.  When in fact I think that they just didn't want to deal with this overly nosy anthropologist who is obviously stepping on toes and irritating people who are just trying to do their jobs.  Reichs' tries to portray Brennan as a lone crusader fighting against all these odds to get to the criminal.  When in fact she is an irritating anthropologist who has no business investigating a murder.  She is, basically, a laboratory-based employee who should not be in the field.  So I don't blame the cops in the book that don't like her.  She's butting her nose in where it doesn't belong and, in a part I actually liked, she ends up bringing irreparable damage to her family and friends.  I thought it a just outcome.  Also, after about the twentieth time of Brennan looking at some cop's rear end and saying "I like the way his butt looks...Oh, stop!  You need to get laid." I wanted to scream.  Dr. Brennan, at least in this debut novel, is extremely irritating.

Thirdly, I have read the basic plot of this book in a hundred other novels.  The suprise "switcheroo" ending is not suprising but more annoying...  It is just a cheap way to trick the reader.  And if I have to read about one more main character who ends up becoming the target of the "killer", I will scream.  Its pathetic.  How many times does it need to be written?  Its ridiculous.

Now, 'Deja Dead' is the first of Reichs' books that I've read.  I've heard that the following books in the Brennan series are better and I certainly hope this is the case.  I really didn't like the book:  not the characters, the plot, the writing...  But I will give Reichs another try and read the next book in the series.  If its as bad as 'Deja Dead', I don't think I ever read another one her books
