I wrote a review not long ago on this book (you can see it down below), and I suppose I damaged my credibility as a "critic" by claiming in the review that I was only about halfway through the book. Well, I have finished the book, and I believe that a new review is in order.

As indicated by the FIRST half of the book, ALONE IN THE WHITE HOUSE just never caught me. Though this is his only work I have read (and plan to leave it at that), Richard Reeves has become a bit of an enigma to me: how does a man so devoid of literary zest become so acclaimed for same? It's a mystery, but don't misread my intentions; I'm not here to hack the man to death. I really put alot of effort into reading this book, and I recognize that he put tons of effort into WRITING it. It's brilliantly researched, and of this there is no doubt. Yet, I had to concentrate hard and dedicate myself just to finish it. I was tempted to walk away several times. Why, you ask?

Well, for pretty much the same reasons I listed in my first review. ALONE IN THE WHITE HOUSE is dry, cold and basically completely uninteresting. Myriad facts which comprise one of the most shocking and pivitol events in political history are presented like the directions in a stereo manual. It's literally like reading a technical diagram, and when you think Reeves is going to go off on an interesting tangent (say, for instance, some curious note of Nixon's personal life, which is why we're reading in the first place, right?), after one or two meager sentences he regretfully gets back to business as usual. If you're into exhaustively researched dates, times, government acronyms, and media and political insider jargon, then this book is for you. If you read not only for the pursuit of knowledge but ALSO the pleasure of the *act* of reading, then I can only condemn this work. Stay away from it.

There is nothing wrong with the material. That's simply not the issue. Any other reputable biographer/author could have taken the exact same research and drafted a fine and enjoyable volume. It's simply Reeves' impersonal and uninspired writing style. I'd be really surprised if Reeves didn't have as bad a time writing PRESIDENT NIXON as I did reading it.

Even lacking works in literature, film and music, I believe, should be experienced just for perspective (to quote the great philosipher Butthead -- of Beavis and Butthead fame -- "if nothing ever sucked, you wouldn't know when something was cool"), but I will not say the same for this book. Technically, it IS well-written (there are no typos or grammatical errors) and is also a fine representation of expert documentation, but there is no redeeming value here as far as historical worth goes, and there certainly isn't anything to be hoped for in the department of literary enjoyment, either. If you are interested in Nixon the man, Nixon the politician, or even Nixon the President, I cannot stress strongly enough avoiding this book and looking elsewhere. It just isn't worth your time (or money).

In short, ALONE IN THE WHITE HOUSE almost made me forget why I love reading in the first place.

Unbelievable.
