The Black Dahlia is not downright terrible, however throughout my reading of it I found myself wanting to tell people not to read it.  So here I am on Amazon.com doing that exact thing.  Characterization in this novel is sorely lacking.  Not only do we know little about the motivations and inner workings of the two main characters, there is little to compel the reader to care about them.  I also found that some of the actions of Buddy and Lee were not believable or true to what we did know of the character.  Perhaps it's just that the characters are so shabbily constructed that certain scenes come off as false, perhaps with stronger characterization we would understand why suddenly a character would seemingly turn into a different person.  

The criticisms I have above can often be forgiven if there is enough action or suspense to move the story along and keep me turning the pages.  This is really not the case with The Black Dahlia.  Just when I think the story is finally getting good, just when a sense of suspense seems to be building; all that is dropped for a scene that really doesn't need to be in the book.  I noticed another reviewer that mentioned the book could have been pared down to 250 pages, which I also find to be the case.  With some dramatic editing, the story in this book could move along at a much better pace.

Finally; this is not the book for you if you are buying the book because you have an interest in the Black Dahlia killing, if you like true crime, or if you just like a good who-dunnit.  The book is only vaguely about the murder of Elizabeth Short.  The main characters are supposedly obsessed with the victim of this murder, however they both seem rather occupied by the other non-Dahlia related things going on in the story, too occupied to be consumed with obsession by a murder case.  As I mentioned before, the suspense that one looks for when reading a murder mystery is just not there.  That is the most disappointing aspect of the book.

If you are looking for a suspenseful and masterfully written crime novel, try Mystic River by Dennis Lehane
