Having invested heavily in a single stock - WorldComm - Paulos laments his financial loss, and embarks to write a book where he takes the reader through a spectrum of equities analysis methodologies, and disproves their apparent success as attributes of illusions and perceptions. Through the use of thought experiments, he attempts to re-wire the readers to comprehend the true nature of randomness, which is more ordered than most people's expectations. 

The good stuff aside, I am very disappointed with the book for two reasons. Firstly, the publisher's marketing of the book is highly misleading. It hints that the author used his professional skills as a mathematician to beat the market. As such I bought the book hoping to understand why the author failed, and hope to avoid his pitfalls. Instead, the author did not have any first hand experience with any of the techniques discussed. He simply did not apply any mathematical methods, or any method for that matter, during his compulsive purchase of WorldComm shares. So anyone hoping for case studies would be let down. 

Secondly, Paulos' arguments are not all that convincing. While he successfully presents an alternative hypothesis based on the incorrect human perceptions of probability, he makes no attempts to disprove established theories. All he has achieved is simply to offer another explanation. The section on technical analysis is particularly poor, as his arguments were rather superficial, and amounted to simply saying technical analysts have not provided convincing prove - he does not feel he needs to go any further. What is confusing to me, is that he rejects technical analysis despite giving a marvellous introduction, and goes on to explain how and why technical patterns form, as well as admitting throughout the book that the psychology of the market is what moves prices - one of several core principles of technical analysis. 

Having said all that, "A Mathematician Plays the Market" is an eye-opener in lateral thinking for the non-mathematically inclined, and is a recommended read for financial novices. Professionals in either fields can give this book a miss
