I was left with a sense of annoyance after reading this book. Maybe it was because i started it believing it was a memoir. When i then read the contrived jacket, i learned it was a work of fiction: "Dark, humorous, and exquisitely haunting, his final book of fiction...". In the book, the writer reveals that his birthday was January 30, his daughter married without his approval, he hated traveling, etc. I had never before heard about Richard Brautigan, so i did a bit of research. What a surprise to find out that he was born on January 30, his daughter married without his approval, he hated to travel, and so on. So this work of "fiction" turned to be pretty autobiographical after all.


The style of the book is certainly different to anything i have ever read before. The narrative is almost what you would hear in a conversation. There are many artificial segments interspersed here and there. For example, "Maybe i'll describe what I have been doing since I interrupted or was interrupted writing this book nine days ago..." He goes on to describe a dream, and then all of a sudden 14 days have passed and he says the book is "mischevious and grows more and more to follow the way life works out". How helpless.


Another aspect of the writing that i did not like at all is the self-indulgence that permeates it. "I got a glass of wine as I said I would - interruption for a Montana nature break. I just felt something dimly crawling on my arm". And he goes for an entire page talking about a spider. The last page, where he thanks the company that made the notebook, is another example.


So sorry about Brautigan. The expression "pobre hombre" comes to mind when i think of him. What a painful existence he must have lived. But, no matter how fanciful or different your writing style is, that doesn't make it art. Others have explored the subject of death in a far more compelling, delicate, articulate manner. Brautigan's vision was ultimately selfish, the way he was with his daughter, his relationships, his friends. And it shows.

