This is quite a book.  Cannon admits that he is fascinated by Reagan (p. ix), but it seems to be the fascination of sadist.  It is obvious that he does not like Reagan, and the chapter layout proves this.  For example, Regan's earliest and most decisive victory, the firing of the ATC Worker, is achronologically treated in Chapter 17, which is on the relection.  He devotes an entire (and very tedious) chapter to Regan's visit to Bitburg Cemetery (Chapter 18), and then two whole chapters to Iran-Contra (19-20). The weirdest mix may be Chapter 8, begins a discussion of Reagan's humor and then deteriorates into a discussion of Reagan's mental processes.

Moreover, he devotes one and a half paragraphs on page 91 to discuss the assassination attempt, and does not even mention John Hinckley by name, which he finally does on page 156 and later on page 164, in the context of Alex Haig's meltdown.  This is tantamount to writing a biography on Lincoln, and paraphrasing the Gettysburg Address.

I thought Chapter 8, "Kidding on the Square" paled in comparison to Peggy Noonan's similar treatment in "When Character Was King," Chapter 14.  Cannon includes two of Reagan's off-color jokes that Noonan only alludes to, which just reveals more of his iconoclasm.

This books biggest flaw is that there is no Reagan in it.  It is almost all context to Reagan, but you see very little of the man.  You get exposed to people's reactions to Reagan, but never given inside the man.  This is because Cannon rarely quotes Reagan himself.  He manages to talk around his subject, with nimble dexterity, but four chapters into the book, you get the feeling something is missing.

BEFORE YOUR READ THIS BOOK, I suggest you read three others.  First, Read Michael Reagan's quote book on his father, "In the Words of Ronald Reagan."  The second would be "Speaking My Mind," Reagan's collection of his favorite speeches.   Given in chronological order, they give you a better sense of what happened, what Reagan himself thought was important bout his presidency. This gives you a better sense of time that Canon obscures (i.e. talking about the ATC strike in the same chapter as his reelection-quite a Wrinkle in Time).  The last would be the aforementioned Noonan biography, which is really a moral history of the man.  Then tackle Cannon's book and see his flaws
