Being a historical fiction buff, when this title popped up in my amazon recommended list, I read the 20-odd 5 star listings and ordered it immediately.  I was very surprised. (SPOILERS follow.) While the idea and times are intrinisically interesting, I found the execution sophomoric (apologies to the author).  The main character, a 20 year old named Prescott, is simply unrealistic.  He is dropped into Tudor London, a callow stable boy from the country, and within one week has become a major engineer of the fate of young Elizabeth, nor could the author resist having his hand in on getting Mary out of a bit of scrape too.   Prescott matches wits - overmatches actually - with Lord Cecil, and duels - successfully- with Walsingham.  He falls entirely in love with a lady-in-waiting who immediately pops into bed with him - a sex scene that I couldn't bear to read along with the 'cute' flirtatious dialogue between the lovers.  In the meantime Prescott also becomes the beloved Master of an enigmatic stable lad - named Peregrine (who rides a horse named Mouse!) - to get in some circular shadowing.  Indeed, I was suspicious early when the stable boy's borrowed livery was green on one page and red on the next.  Hmm.  Bottom line, Prescott is unrealistic in every single way, he even sheds a tear for Lady Jane Grey among several other victimized women (i.e., he's a strong man, but also emotionally reacheable).  All in one short week. 
 
Why write a review at all  - especially as I am sure to get whacked by people who gave the book 5 stars?  Because this book does NOT deserve a unanimous five star rating!!!  Why even two stars then?  Because it was easy reading, (though I admit I skimmed a good bit of the last half), and it made me google some of the historical players to remind myself.  But there is so much better out there about this period - to name just two - Patricia Findlay is marvelously inventive as well as scholarly about the times of Elizabeth.  Dorothy Dunnett is the queen of this type of fiction, though she doesn't spend a lot of time (in the Lymond series)in London.  It's almost sacriligious to compare Dunnett with the current book, but hey, maybe this will get some lucky person to read her books instead...
    
