Are we living in the end times is just what I expected.  Typical apologetic Christian scare tactics based on irrational fantasies. What should scare you is the nastiness of the previous "Christian" reviewers attitudes toward each other.  A person whom may be interested in the Christian worldview likely would be even more confused and probably put off by these people.  Why should they bother to read Mr. LaHaye's opinions or for that matter the Bible itself, since all these people have read these same books and come to such different interpretations  and conclusions.  If they're looking for love and comfort, why should they want to join a group of people that not only look forward to the world being destroyed and 80 percent of the nice people inhabiting it to be murdered and tortured forever, but also seem to hate people of their own faith?
     Christians have such diverse opinions because the fact is that the Bible is hopelessly contradictory, no matter how hard apologists like LaHaye try to twist and destort its words to make it form to their own biases.  By all means, READ the New Testament.  Take your time, don't use study guides that try to tell you what they think it means, keep an open mind and THINK FOR YOURSELF. You will find that there is no question that the people writting the New Testament thought that the "end of the world" was going to happen in thier lifetimes.  Pay attention to Matt. 24 when Jesus says he will be back during that generation, or Matt. 16 where people standing there will not have drawn thier last breath before the second coming occurs.  You don't use terms like "the time is nigh", "the end of all things is at hand" or the first words of Revelations itself " the things which MUST SHORTLY come to pass" if you think it might take a couple of thousand years.  When the Bible says the world is flat, the sky is a solid dome supported by pillars with windows in it for the rain, space is full of water, and that giant human/angels used to inhabit the earth, it is wrong.  When it says that invisible people who live in the sky are going to come and destroy the earth and just about everybody in it, that again is wrong. More importantly, it is not moral or anything close to love, which the religious are always claiming they have so much of.  
    Don't wait for someone to come do some magic and make all your problems go away. Get off your knees and do it yourself.
