   O.K. I didn't buy the book, but I searched for reference to "immortality", which, as I suspected would give a very concise philisophical snapshot of the author. Lets see now, he speaks of the "demographic" problems associated with longer life and lower firtility. First obvious flaw in his reasoning is that we would be marginally active and retire for the last 40 to 50 or so years of a radically extended life(or 1000 years or so). The premise is rediculous because the goal of adult onset gene doping would be to extend health and vitality. Immaging a world in which you could live to 150 years or so with the strength and clearity of a 40 or 30 year old? Are you going to just "sit down in your rocking chair"?

    Even going with the worker ratios, in Japan for instance that he speaks of, only 2 for every 1 retired, we could adjust the theory that social security operates-if you retire at age 65 with indefinite life span, you should collect for just 20 years-go back to work, start a business. Go back to school-learn something new-all better ideas than just infering that we should just roll over and die because redical life extension might cause some potential "problems" with systems put in place when humans were suffering and dying at young ages.

   Also, "age differences" between the developed world and the underdeveloped world. Yes, there will be definate philosophic differences but they exist for other reasons rather than just "older women"(refering to aging populations that will have a slight increase in female to male ratios) in the North and "younger men"(refering to a higher male to female ratio in younger populations-as well as selective gender bias) in the South, or underdeveloped world. Maybe the influence an older, somewhat more femine population in the West might be a moderating influence governing our policies with regard to the rest of the world? Just a thought. But-waite a minute! Life extension will be available to the men as well as the women, unless we find more men just wanting to "roll over and die".  

    Mr Fukuyama seems to be saying that changing anything that
"makes us human" is wrong. 

    I have a question to pose to him and any of you out there.

    What is so good about being "human"? Lets see, we are a vehicle for the "The Selfish Gene" which only cares about its transmission from one temporary entity to the next-and after the age of reproduction-who cares? Right? So we are disposable!Birth-Shcool-Work-Reproduction-Death. Right about when we start to begin to live, the genetic time bomb begins to visabley manifest itself. 

    Like Francis, I was born in the middle of the "Baby Boom" generation. I am looking forward to human intellegence being able to preserve precious consciousness indefinitley. I have always known it would happen and I have a better than 50% chance at seeing this. This was considered impossible 30 years ago and I (and others like me) would state this and be shrugged off. What is really of concern to me is that now, we know it is possible but that some believe we should just "roll over and die"! Rediculous! We should persue radical life extension and also encourage near zero total birth rates so we can escape the Birth-School-Work-Reproduction-Death senerio! 
