My thoughts on the book have evolved over time.  When it first came out, I could take 
it as a serious critique of past policies of the state department.  But that was before
Robert Kaplan published a Fascist policial book titled "Warrior politics: why leadership
demands a Pagan Ethos".

Mr. Kaplan is an unapoligetic Fascist who has openly rejected both Jewish and 
Christian morality in favor of the politics of terror and force.  And his decision to
go down the road of Fascism casts a different light on the contents of this book.


This book draws broad conclusions about the state department and a whole set of people
who served over the course of decades based on Kaplan hand-selecting a few individuals
to prove the points he wanted to make.  Its also a profoundly anti-intellectual work
that somehow asserts that knowledge and contacts within local cultures inevitably leads
to collaboration with the "enemy".

After reading warrior politics, its rather clear that Kaplan's views of dealing with other
countries were not what he tried make them in this book.  In "warrior politics", he comes
out an unapoligistic imperialist who sees those outside the borders of the USA and Israel
as barbarians who can only be dealt with by brutal force.  A level of force such that he
feels it necessary to open advocate the abandonment of Jewish and Christian notions of 
morality.

What Kaplan never understood about the state department he hated so much was that having
all those voices who understood countries, cultures and languages allowed for better
policy decisions often to be made.  The new state department is full of people top to
bottom who don't understand the world outside the united states, often don't have language
skills and who regard in-country postings as a joke.  Everything is centralized in washington
now and policy decisons are more likely to be driven by someone from a political think 
tank who knows nothing about the politics or culture of the countries they are making
decisions about.

This didn't make sense before.  But now it does.  Kaplan is an amoral fascist who sees peace
as a dangerous fantasy and pure force as the only basis for dealing with any "barbarian" 
countries.  His love for the ideal of the roman empire and disregard for human life also
explains why no amount of failure in reconstructing Iraq would mean anything to him.  The
american soldiers who die in Iraq in Kaplan's world view have no particular value or meaning.
Kaplan, as the Roman Empire or Napoleon, simply sees soldiers as something to be used up
in order to gain an advantage.  To regard human life as having any meaning would, in his stated
world-view, be false autruism
