This book contains 203 pages of text including 6 full pages of maps. There is plenty of blank space for ends of chapters and large chapter titles.  Additionally provided: table of contents - 2 pages, acknowledgments - half page, end notes - 35 pages,and index - 8 pages.

By describing anti-Israel influences, the author inadvertently guides me to them and gives me encouragement that there may be a meaningful opposition in the world to Zionism.  For years I have noted a decided favoritism toward Israel in this country, particularly in our news and entertainment industry and in the actions of our politicians.  I have feared that I might be part a small minority that questions this favoritism.

The author's arguments are unconvincing.  He suggests that "realities on the ground" require that Israel retain settlement territories that have been heavily developed by Israelis.  The true reality is that these territories were stolen by Israel.  Indeed the very founding of Israel was enabled by stealing land from the native Arab population and running off a sufficient number of Arabs to give Israel a large Jewish majority.  That is hardly democracy in action, and the author fails to present any argument to justify it.  He presents as a basic axiom the requirement to maintain this large Jewish majority.  It is Zionism at it's essence, that somehow the world owes the Jews their own country regardless of how it is obtained.

Surprisingly, the author speaks of the asymmetry of criticism against Israel and Palestinians, saying that it is the intellectuals and elites that are critical of Israel, while critics of the Palestinians come from lower ranks.  To me, this says that the people who are educated and think with any depth are the ones critical of Israel.

The author complains bitterly that Israel is being singled out for criticism while atrocities by other nations are being ignored.  This is weak.  First, atrocities by other nations are certainly under criticism, and the offenses of other nations do not diminish the offenses by Israel.   Second, Israel's actions in the Middle East are of critical importance to the world energy supply and peace.  If there is any singling out of Israel, it is the pro-Israel influence in the U.S. where the news media gives endless coverage to Israel, where we are frequently bombarded with Holocaust images, and where our government provides Israel with more foreign aid than to any other country.

There are other illogical arguments made by the author, but addressing all of them goes well beyond this relatively brief book review.  On the whole, I was impressed with the manipulative presentation offered by the author.  It is amazing to what extent people will go to justify their illogical proposals
