Beinart spends a significant amount of time on his interpolation of history. It is an enlightening view of a view of history and will give people a window into the ideology of the writer. Every writer approached a subject with his or her bias, Beinart is no exception.

He would like to remind Americans that we are flawed, far from perfect and need to view ourselves as far from perfect. In several paragraphs he points out that the liberals are willing to see our flaws and acknowledge that we aren't right. This perspective is required to allow a moral equivalence to be assigned to any other society. He also pointed out one of the sins of Reagan was that he played on American ego and told us that the left was wrong, we are a great nation and that socialism goes hand and hand with totalitarianism.

America does some things aboard that are in her national interest. Beinart believes we should acknowledge this. He also makes that incredible assertion that we didn't offer enough aid fast enough to Indonesia after the devastation from the tsunami. I believe that facts are against him on that one.

Beinart talks about the magnificent nation building capabilities of the UN as opposed to America's lack of nation building capability. Beinart seems to believe that by not relying on the UN to guide us, we lost help. Beinart mentions Kosovo and Rawanda as nations the UN helped to build after they had fallen. He doesn't mention that those efforts have gone poorly and are currently past the ten year mark and still on going. Again, Beinart has written this with a bias and does not mention the corruption in the UN. He also doesn't mention that inaction by the UN allowed the Rawandin genocide and that in Kosovo, more suffering at the hands of Muslims is occuring. Not good examples to site.

Beinart also points out that Kerry and the other liberals campaigned on fighting a smarter war, and that mistakes were made in Iraq. Then he points out that no plan was ever put forward. As a matter of fact, it was pointed out several times and in his writings he points out that he has never seen the plan either. He mentions that at a campaign event all the personnel were waiting to hear a plan, but none was given leading him to a belief that they needed to tell people what their plan was if there was a plan.

He also points out that the liberals along with the UN and others have fought against the war from the start. UN. Beinart doesn't mention that the UN and members of the UN were actively involved with the Oil For Food scandal. He also fails to point out that UN has actively campaigned against the war from the beginning. Last but not least, he sees these attacks and corruption and says that the conservatives are to blame because the conservatives didn't attempt to appease these people or give up power to them and allow them to run things.

Beinart talks about the world view, then the Iraq current view that the US is there for imperialistic reasons. He says we have done little to convince them that we are not imperialist however he points to innuendo and sites no cases. He speaks about Micheal Moore and he even hints that Moore is wrong. What Beinart doesn't acknowledge is that the left, the liberals and the UN have been out on the air waves and the TV telling the world it was an imperialist act since the war started. Our own senators have gotten on TV and published articles about the US being Imperialist. Charely Rangel, John Kerry and others continuely and reflexively call the war an illegal war in every TV appearance. Three years of having our liberal senators, liberal press and UN call this an illegal war and occupation will aid the enemy. Beinart simply does not acknowledge this and puts the blame on the conservatives.

Beinart, as a liberal says little more than the liberals keep saying. America has no legitimacy because we are flawed and we can't own up to the fact that we are flawed. Beinart actually says we need to gain legitimacy in the eyes of the UN. That would be the UN with Kofi Annan whose son made money on the oil for food program. He does mention that some choices are muddy and there is not a good clean way to fight a war without some issues, he simply says it. He doesn't seem  to understand exactly what he said.

He does spend time explaining that the liberals have made some terrible mistakes in showing what they stand for. He points out that many of the liberals vote solely based on what would get them elected but not on principal. Beinart also makes the old canard about intellectual liberal versus the conservative who is not intellectual or educated. Wow. 

Beinart spends a few pages talking about John Kerry and attempting to explain why he didn't get elected. He talks about the swift boat vets as "republican attack machine". What Beinart has left out is that the founder of the Swift Boat Vets argued with John Kerry on National TV 30 years prior to this election. The argument, contrary to Beinarts assertion concerning John Kerry's medals or injuries was about something Beinart didn't even mention. It was about what Kerry said when he got back. Kerry held the winter soldier hearings and most of the people who testified about atrocities the saw or performed in Vietnam had never been in the military or been to Vietnam. Beinart is barking up the wrong tree here. 

Beinart really does point out the liberal view that America is a deeply flawed country with poor values. His view of America is one of continual American intervention over seas  has damaged the world. That our enemies are our enemies, not because they are irrational and just hate the way we live, but because we didn't pay them enough. In the last chapter of the book he recommends we spend more money to develop these countries. Somehow the argument seems hollow. If intervening by the US is bad, why would using our money to develop markets not be intervening? We have been doing that in Iraq and Afghanistan, but Beinart does not acknowledge this and it makes him seem insincere and more partisan.
