First I want to state all the good things about this book - because they are certainly the principles of this book.

Dr. Andrew Weil's Eating Well for Optimum Health holds a wealth of information. Starting with the chemistry of how your body handles food and then explaining how that affects the goods and bads of what's out there is the basis in which Weil promotes his theories. In a world where foods become vilified and championed alike through various 'studies'... it can be intimidating to know what you should include in an 'optimum diet'. Weil clears a lot of this up and is pretty specific about what vitamins, minerals, whole foods and nutrients we should be nourishing our body with. All in all this is a great book on the science of food.

Now, for the bad part. I actually finished this book over a weekend, sick in bed, about a month ago. I was 'sick of being sick' as some would say and devoured (pardon the pun) this wealth of knowledge. After I was well enough to get back to my routine, I threw away almost every single food item in my kitchen, as almost nothing adhered to the optimum plan. I was still very motivated with my bare cupboards and then set out to turn my family's life around. 

Dr. Weil makes it pretty clear that you are going to pretty much have to go exclusively organic, bar a few, and I mean few, fruits and vegetables. He even states that some non-organic fruits and vegetables are so toxic in their non-organic state you should never consume them - strawberries for example. Something Weil will also state is the pesca-ovo-vegetarianism diet is his diet of choice, because almost all meats are riddled with hormones that greatly impact our own bodies. The optimum food pyramid doesn't really include animal proteins, so if you aren't a vegetarian, you'll have some serious issues to resolve.

He tells you he loves food, and feels anyone who misses the point and stops enjoying food is wasting their time. I totally agree, but in practice, this book does just about that. Demonizing foods based on the fears of cancer and inflammatory disease can be a difficult pill to swallow, particularly if you've consumed these foods all of your life. The nature of label reading and being a smart consumer can literally drive you insane. It's certainly beneficial, we know that, but making it a lifestyle will require more then just a bit of education.

This book also is not for anyone seeking weight-loss through diet modification. Weil explains it certainly can be done, but he spends more time telling you what diets, such as Atkins, not to partake in. This fact is actually not a negative side to the book. However given the nations statistics on obesity I think this could have been a more helpful aspect of the book if he developed it.

I will end with this: This book could/would be an incredible useful tool if you were any or (ideally all) of the following:

1. You are wealthy. Try buying exclusively organic. It's outrageous. Most working families can not afford this lifestyle, contrary to the notion that prepared and processed foods are expensive. Prepared and process foods are cheap - that's why Americans consume them at such high rates. He suggest to organic co-op farms, but even as late as 2006 they can be scarce for most people in the suburbs, and when you do find them, they will only be cheaper then buying organic from natural food stores and chains, which isn't saying much. Don't be shocked when you find vine-ripened organic tomatoes at $5.99 a pound.

2. You do not work. Almost exclusively cooking from scratch, which is even acknowledged by Weil, will be the hardest transition for anyone who works full-time or has a family. This is probably the saddest aspect of this book. There certainly is nothing wrong with from cooking wholesome, healthy meals from scratch - but it isn't the norm for most people. If you buy the foods recommended, you'll be spending about 70% of your day in the kitchen if preparing 3 meals. 

3. You already lead a healthful and active lifestyle. If this is you then you probably already knew much of Weil's intuitive advice and therefore will need only tweaking to adhere to the optimum plan.

My personal experience with this book is that you can back yourself into a corner with fear. If you work and have a family I suggest you skip this book. Working in your 5+ a day fruits and vegetables, organic or not, and leading an active lifestyle is a good place to start. The Eating For Optimum Health book creates a pretty black and white picture. And we all know life isn't black and white.


