Michael Ruse fails to sustain his argument, I'm afraid, in THE EVOLUTION-CREATION STRUGGLE.  The title is misleading because it's not specific enough.  The story of the anti-Enlightenment/anti-Darwin fundamentalist backlash is not new, and Ruse doesn't attempt to add anything to it.  What IS new is the story Ruse tells of how "evolutionism" was also a reaction to the Enlightenment, a more optimistic reaction.  The best part of the book is Ruse's marshalling of evidence to this effect in the period prior to the Darwinian revolution.  And before I forget to say it, Ruse is not arguing that modern biology and the neo-Darwinian synthesis it's based on is not scientific.  What he is discussing is the wider metaphysical backdrop of the scientific theory of natural selection-plus-genetics. 

 But it's a classic case of a Procrustean bed -- Ruse tries to fit his intellectual history into the constraining concept that creationists are premillennialists and "evolutionists" are postmillennialists.  In other words, the liberal/progressive intellectuals and scientists can also be situated on the Christian metaphysical terrain -- they believe that it is up to humanity to perfect the world BEFORE Christ returns.  I just don't buy it.  The claim is too big and his evidence too scanty, indirect, and circumstantial. 

 There does seem to be some truth to a more general idea, which is far from original.  Max Weber, the great German sociologist, claimed that the Protestant work ethic continued to propel the accumulation of wealth even after the religious belief fell away (THE PROTESTANT ETHIC AND THE SPIRIT OF CAPITALISM).  And the process philosopher Alfred North Whitehead famously said that "[The Middle Ages] was the age of faith based upon reason.  [The 18th Century in Europe] was the age of reason, based upon faith."  (SCIENCE AND THE MODERN WORLD, p. 57).  In other words, the structure of belief continues to inform thought even after belief fades.  But here is where Ruse goes wrong, in my view.  He elides the distinction, and claims that the BELIEF continues, and so calls "evolutionism" a form of religious belief, a postmillennial religious belief. 

 Some further thoughts on the flaws in Ruse's argument:  1) Darwin's theory of natural selection has always struck me as depressing.  Compelling, but depressing.  I am certainly not alone in this.  So there is a big problem with Ruse's insistence that "evolutionism" is necessarily an optimistic view.  This is one way that the observable facts do not fit his conceptual scheme.  2) An increasingly influential faction among the evangelical/fundamentalists is known as the Dominionists -- James Dobson of Focus on the Family is the leading figure in this group.  The Dominionists are -- postmillennialists!  They are aspiring theocrats, who believe it the job of the Christians to take over the government and rule according to Old Testament principles in preparation for Christ's return.  This is another case where the observable facts do not support Ruse's theory of "fundamentalist premillennialists" versus "progressive postmillennialists."  3) Ruse has left many support structures out, and expects the premillennial/postmillennial concept alone to support the weight of his vast construct.  There is no discussion of liberal and conservative ideology, for instance, and how they have changed over time in the U.S. and the U.K., a glaring oversight.  Also missing is any examination of the idea of sociocultural evolution, a central concept in anthropology (it should be a central concept in sociology as well), which is not at all the same as biological evolution.  Ruse could make a much more cogent argument if he disentangled the two, but it would be a more complex argument. 

 I agree with Ruse's practical conclusions, that defenders of science should avoid bashing religion, as Richard Dawkins is prone to do, and that defenders of science should rise above their differences to work together more effectively in keeping ID and other religious notions out of biology classes.  And fortunately the unconvincing historic argument of THE EVOLUTION-CREATION STRUGGLE is not necessary to either of those worthy aims.           
