The Last Escape
By
John Nichol and Tony Rennell

	The story starts when a group of British prisoners of war are stuck in a camp named Stalag Luft IV in Germany.  They are then sent on a treacherous journey through Germany.  Many prisoners died and many became very sick and ill.  Most prisoners became so skinny that all you could see was bone there was no meat at all.
	Finally, they stopped at a camp that would end this march.  The name of it was Stalag IIA.  After many days the German guards decided to get up and move so they could become farther away from the Russians and have a chance of evacuation and killing for the guards.  Unluckily, this march was just as hard and treacherous as the first but not as quite as long.
	The name of this new camp they had reached was Stalag XIID.  The Germans did not hold control of this camp for long.  Russian troops quickly arrived and took the camp.  Relieved were many of the starving prisoners.  There was something weird about the Russians control of the camp.  They would not let any of the POWs leave even though the Americans were two miles away too evacuate them.  The Russians were saying they have to wait until they get permission from the government in Moscow, even though they are allies with all of the POWs countries.  It seemed as though the POWs were being held as hostages under the Russians.
	Then permission came fro the POWs to be released to the Americans two miles away.  Therefore the POWs hoped on the cars waiting and then were shipped too an airport.  Finally the POWs' destiny came they were going to be sent home by country on airplanes.  Though not the Russians they stayed behind with the troops that were leading the camp.  There they were shot because of surrendering to the Germans.  It was thought to be frowned upon if you surrendered, that is how the Russians were.
	Happy were the prisoners that were sent home.
	
I did not enjoy this book very much.  It seemed to go on and on.  There was way to much detail.  It seemed like one of those stories when you wall asleep in the middle and when you wake up it is still going on.  There was also no action in the story.
	The people that would like this book are people who love detail and like to listen to a lot of stories.  They must also have a lot of patience for the story to develop.  Do Not read this book if you are not that type of person.
