This has been my most successful review so I have revised it one year later.
Bought this with a lot of expectations. As you are all aware there is very little in the way of books on this subject. The definitive work is Ray Zee's Advanced Omaha Hilo which is several years old. Why so few books, the reason I would guess is that although the starting hands are straight forward (A2 anything basically) how to adjust your play to the board is key to the game and this variable is hard to cover in a commercially readible/viable book. (I.e. what to do v the 1000s of hand permutations). 
Alas that's the problem here there is nothing new that I have read that is not already covered in Zee's work. In fact Zee's book contains more advanced plays and a much more comprehensive hand selection, and has a superb Q&A format at the end of each chapter. You also get the balance of the book on Stud Hilo for "free".
There are some sparse chapters on the internet and psychological aspects in this new publication which are more adequately covered in basic Holdem texts, thats the only "new" info I am seeing compared to the older O8 books. Overall its a very good basic book for your 1st O8 book but you still need to buy the book by Zee. If you can afford both and have the time to read this book then also buy this one as it will become the standard entry level book, if you can only afford one then you have to buy the Zee book or miss out key concepts. Overall I see very little new material, the book is very nicley put together and very readable however it still does not cover as much material as the older Zee work.
Since writing this review Super system II is out with a chapter by Bobby Baldwin, I now believe that to be the best 1st introduction to O8 for beginning players and it's only 60 pages long so easy and quick to read. The Zee book is essential reading and that relegates this book even further. However for experienced O8 players the short 2 pages in this book on short handed play (6 players or less) is essential reading and is probably the best available material on the subject.
