The truth is this is a Book for PENNYPINCHERS, presented in a more "respectable" fashion with a shiny cover and bullet-headings (it should be called "PENNYPICHERS GUIDE for the ModernDay). Now theres nothing wrong with saving bucks where you can and being abit of a PennyPincher when you want to work towards financial independence or some other higher goal in life... but this book wants you to live like a Tramp! 

This book will NOT teach you how to make money, it will not show motivate yourself to perform better in life, it will not help you become a Millionare... or become financially independent. 

instead the advice it offers is at the other end of the spectrum, it tells you how to live like a Tramp, basically how to "get away from the city" and move to a farm on the outskirts. How to survive in a Cave or on top of a mountain (where you dont have to pay a mortgage!), it details how to grow your vegitables (3 non-stop pages dedicated to gardening), how to buy your clothes from BootSales, how to basically "DOWNGRADE" and "SLOWDOWN" your life to be One with mothernature. 

now some of the advice is good, like spending more time with your family, giving children limited pocket money to teach them value of it etc. but i was disapointed in this book because there is hardly  no advice on how to become successful and be rich. 

So if you want to sell your city apartment and live in a cave, growing your own food, sewing your own clothes, and running around with wild horses... then by all means go ahead and buy this book. 

If you (like me) thought that this book will teach you about Money, how to earn more, how to spend it WISELY (big difference between being MoneyWise and downright STINGY!) and how to one day become financially independent...then sadly you will be disapointed so think about giving it a miss. 

advice: checkyour local bookshop and see if you can pickup this book for cheap, for a book that preaches frugality and pennypinching it came at a farily high price to my wallet! and just flick through and read a few pages before you buy -
