Karen Armstrong, some of whose other books I've found illuminating, really fails here in a big way. This book presents a whitewashed picture, a romanticised history of the founder of Islam. She carries on about "islamophobia" and the crusades but is silent about the Islamic incursions into Europe centuries before the crusades. In other words, she ignores Islamic imperialism. Unfortunately, it soon becomes clear that the entire book is a compendium of half-truths, distortions, omissions and wishful thinking.
 
The chapters are titled Mecca, Jahilliyah, Hijrah, Jihad and Salam. There are 2 maps, notes, and a glossary without the word Dhimmitude, which is very telling. The book lacks an index. The author paints Islam as a religion of peace and reconciliation and incorrectly states that the word means "peace." The real meaning of Islam is "submission", as I'm sure Ms Armstrong must know very well. She also insists on interpreting the word Jihad as "struggle" in the sense of personal struggle, ignoring the numerous sayings preserved in the hadith that indicate the opposite.

What I found most shocking was Armstrong's attempts to whitewash the murder of the men of the Jewish Qurayzah tribe and the selling of the children and women into slavery. She denies Muslim anti-semitism and the inferior status and sometimes active persecution of Non-Muslims - as noted before, you won't easily find the word Dhimmi in this book. Her defence of polygamy is unconvincing and comprises many pages painful to read. The tone of the book is quite touchy-feely, supported by highly selective quotes from the Quran.
 
One wonders whether Karen Armstrong deliberately engages in intellectual dishonesty or if she just lives in a make-believe world where the frame of reference is multiculturalism, relativism and postmodernism. This book is flled with distortions and romantic delusions. To get a more balanced perspective, I highly recommend The Truth About Mohammed by Robert Spencer, Islamic Imperialism by Efraim Karsh, The Force Of Reason by Oriana Fallaci and the work of Bat Ye'or and Ayaan Hirsi Ali
