I admit that Chalmers presents some interesting ideas, but the conclusions based on his premises just don't make sense. He's forced to conclude both the untenable: (1) dualist framework and (2) functional framework, hypostazed, that, while being true to his logic, results in absurd conclusions (like panpsychism and inanimate objects are information processing things, including a consciousness). But the most troubling aspect of his argument is that it explains nothing. Obviously, there must be a causal relationship between neurobiology and various states of consciousness. That's been the problem since the problem of the mind resurfaced some twenty years ago, and Chalmers offers nothing but illogical premises that lead to valid, if not preposterous, conclusions. He explains nothing of how the biological-physical account of the brain causes consciousness, or vice versa. In fact, there is no causality explained at all, just descriptions of various hypotheses that seem to suggest functional organization "gives rise" to consciousness. But, it simply doesn't. And what about his "dualism?" I thought most philosophers were on the same page with scientific materialists in rejecting the mind/body distinction and all other dualisms. I admit that sometimes we have "deep-level" and "shallow-level" explanations, that differ epistemically, from one another, but they are ontologically at least consistent in a monist explanation of how things on the micro- and macro-level work. There's no discussion of this at all! All Chalmers does is marry computational functionalism with property dualism, and this is supposed to be a theory of consciousness? Is the mind really nothing more than identical to computers and how they function? If so, why can we have "pain," whereas they don't. And, how come we can be "depressed," "elated," "conceptualize," etc., and they cannot? Is the computer paradigm really suitable for "grounding" human consciousness? I think not.

I won't detail all the problems I had with Chalmers account, other than reiterate that there is something important missing (consult Searle's "The Mystery of Consciousness" for elaboration). But beyond his strange ideas (implied panpsychism, "conscious" inanimate objects, etc.), he really is not a very good expositor of his own ideas. It takes him 40 pages to explain "supervenience," which another author did in a paragraph. I think this convoluted prose occurs anytime an author follows the logical rigor that Chalmers does to the absurd conclusions he reaches. He's definitely logical, but the absurd conclusions based on faulty premises HAD to lead him into this corner. Sorry, there's nothing about this book that I can recommend. An excellent alternative based on neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, and neurochemistry is Edleman's "Universe of Consciousness.
