I bought a paperback copy of Unexplained Mysteries of World War II, at, of all places, the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC. I am a World War II buff and it looked like an interesting and somewhat offbeat read. It was that, and in general I enjoyed the book until I became aware of numerous factual errors and numerous instances of what appear to me to be copying from other sources.

The most grievous factual error was on page 160 in the People Who Vanished section, dealing with the B-24 bomber Lady Be Good. The story says that other than a few bits and pieces of clothing, etc., nothing was ever found of the crew. This is incorrect, and could have been verified with even some casual research in the library or on the Internet. In fact, all but one of the nine crewmember's bodies have been found and recovered. This is set out in great detail in the book, The Lady Be Good - Mystery Bomber of World War II, by Dennis E. McClendon. It was published in 1962 and updated in 1982 when new information about the Lady Be Good's final mission was discovered. Diaries recovered from two of the crewmembers gave stark details of their doomed but determined trek north to try and escape the limitless desert.

On page 174 in the People Who Vanished section, the book stated that the U.S. Navy was unable to explain why Flight 19 vanished, despite an exhaustive investigation. In actual fact, the Navy's 1946 report lists a number of Facts, Opinions and Conclusions based on multiple sources of evidence. 

More than a dozen specific factors were cited that led to the loss, the changing of any one of which would have resulted in a different outcome: the failure of Lt. Taylor's compass; Lt. Taylor's unfamiliarity with the area; the fact that none of the airplanes had an operable/accurate clock; bad radio reception; delays in sending out rescue airplanes; inability to obtain a prompt RDF fix on the flight to help guide it home; the onset of night, which meant the pilots were ditching at sea in the most hazardous conditions imaginable; failure of the teletype system to keep shore stations apprised of the situation, etc. A good summary of the information can be found in The Bermuda Triangle Mystery - Solved, by Larry Kusche, first printed in 1986 and updated in 1995. The Navy is not mystified about what happened to Flight 19 - they screwed up, got lost, and died.

On page 166 of the People Who Vanished section is told the discovery of the ship Rubicon adrift in the Florida Straits in 1944, her crew nowhere to be found. While newspaper stories at the time hinted that something odd, the final paragraph of the New York Times story about the incident indicates that the ship was moored in Havana and the lines may have given way during hurricane-force winds, blowing the ship out to sea sans crew. Again, see The Bermuda Triangle Mystery - Solved, by Larry Kusche. This is another non-mystery that is shown as such by examining all the facts.

On page 28 of the Puzzling Events section, the advertisement for the game The Deadly Double that ran in The New Yorker just a few weeks before the Pearl Harbor attack is discussed, and it is stated that an unknown person who did not identify himself placed the ad - and that the man later met a violent end. In fact, the couple that placed the ad, Mr. and Mrs. Roger Craig, were interviewed by the FBI and completely cleared of anything other than being involved in a rather odd coincidence. The incident was discussed in some detail in The Broken Seal, by Ladislas Farago, first published in 1967.

My final comment is in regards to pages 58-59 in the Odd Coincidences section, A Couple of Mixed-Up Britons and A Postcard with a Unique View, and page 177 of the Peculiar Premonitions section, Churchill's Sudden Impulse. While I realize that all of these incidents drew from some of the same sources, it strikes me as odd that they bear a striking resemblance to the way the same incidents are described in Mysteries of the Unexplained, Reader's Digest Association, published in 1982.
