I think I always had a soft place in my heart for the Jewish people long before I became a Christian.  After accepting the Lord as my Savior, that softness flamed into  love for these children of Jacob/Israel because out of their ancestral line came Jesus and because they preserved the very word of God.  Parts of Brown's book, I found very troubling.  Mans' inhumanity to man is gut-wrenching; we are capable of  horrific things.  What was not brought out in the book is an explanation - not an excuse - why people did what they did.  Anti-semitism and any other anti-something - even anti-Christianity - must be taught to tender ears and moldable hearts -  the uninformed, ignorant and child-like (no matter what age)- by the biased, hate-filled and spiritually blind. In our falleness, hatred is a language we seem to grasp well while love seems mostly limited to a few of our own if they meet our expectations and standards.  I agree with Mr. Brown that the church 'visible' needs much to seek forgiveness from the Jewish people but what puzzles me is "Jewish people by their own teaching say only the victim can accept forgiveness". How then does this forgiveness happen ?   And so, in joy, I turn to the gospel of Christ as the only viable peace offering not by broken man but by a loving God.  The gospel is the only channel by which God touches our hard hearts and breaks down the wall between gentile and Jew and makes one new man.  Only through God's power can one sincerely seek for forgiveness and can forgiveness be accepted in humbleness.  This is the church 'invisible' and it is alive and growing.   In areas of the world where authentic Christianity is lacking, anti-semitism thrives.  My greatest prayer for the Jewish people is that they may see Jesus as their Messiah and that gentile and Jew can worship together in Spirit and truth.  To God be the Glory for His Son: the Prophet Moses spoke of, the King promised David, and our High Priest, in the order of Melchizedek, who intercedes for us unlike any other
