I had order this book last year in June when I knew it was coming for Nov, than Jan.  I finally got the book I couldn't wait becuase Im thinking couture for crochet, BRILLIANT!, than I get the book and peruse through. 1st. what sold me on the book was the cover of the kimono style jacket.  Lily Chin precedes to talk about the art of couture, which houses can legally say they are couture etc..Than she has alot of schematics on couture so Im thinking where are the patterns??.  The 1st 40 pages are on nothing but that, Lily desire to do couture and stories of...Finally she did have some nifty idea on how to elimate gaps on the edge when you are do DC and HDC...When the pattern comes it is a jacket and skirt of olive jacket with some purple  and solid purple skirt.. I can see anyone where this colour of a jacket but in Black maybe so Im thinking ok what else.  Than the jacket on the cover which is called the Maiko jacket which really had my hook humming, you could of course gotten this pattern ffrom INterweave crochet. Next a shell and a cover in the same green and purple.  The next are a few more jacket a sdress with lousy colour.  The black filet looking shirt with beads and blue skirt is the only half decent out of all.  

MOst of the colours are the gree, some browns and just about all are Lily Chin own yarn.  Which not all stores carry.  So than you have to either substitute or find the yarn. There is a bag with some glass beads but the design of the bag is lousy just a small box like tote.  I was sooo disappointed that when I went through the book I looked back to the cover and thought is this misleading.  The colours chosen and shaping was nothing you wouldn't see in a lesser crochet mag.  I would of thought with her talent she would of produce better.  There is no chic scarves, hat, or nice sweater, the browns are not even feminine with the yellow combo and I dont think her yarns are that great anyway, I feel sad after waiting this long anxious to get started, I had my Karabella, and Debbie Bliss ready and this is what I saw.  I would not waste your money, see if you can browse at the bookstore first before you decide to make an investment
