Just as a note, I picked up this book at a local used bookstore, in one of the boxes by the exit listed as "FREE." I guess that would be a sort of portent for what was to come next.

The plot is simple and almost cliche enough: ten people gathering for a 30-year college reunion. Ten different stories basically, plus one recount of a dead graduate. These people are in their early fifties, with each little story/chapter reminiscing on their lives after college graduation.

As a previous reviewer has stated, yes, the major flaw with this book that had the potential to be quite good is that all these people are being whiny, whiny, whiny. Now. Of course, everybody has their own right to be sad and whatnot, but these people seem to take it one step further. I'm gonna just get to the point and state that I absolutely abhor the women in this book (except for two). The rest, sadly, are basically just emotionless bitches in some way or another: one thinks she's 'incapable' of falling in love (and note, she was an art major, haha), another is some blonde with 2 husbands because she wants it all, another, I think, gets what she deserves after cheating on her husband. And so forth. And the men? The men, they just basically sit there, brood a little, and take this BS from the women. Not that I'm saying to go and beat the gals up, but at some point, a guy will have to realize that he was being f***ed over by this lady, true love or not, and has to move on and stop wasting precious time over what has already been done.

So if this is adulthood, or rather, being middle-aged--a bleak overview of their failed love lives so far and nothing else--then I think I'm gonna kill myself before I turn forty. The ending was simply ridiculous and not really an ending at all. The conclusion, the characters, it all just made me angry. It could be that O'Brien's intention was to pick the saddest group of lovestruck losers you've ever met to poke fun at them. But if your some heartbroken idiot who can't get over your unrequited-love situation and wish to indulge in a story that shares your pain, this is the book for you. Now, on a personal note, I've known love too, and experienced its pain, but this is just ABSURD. If your fifty, feeling sorry for yourelf, and still aching over what happened years back, stop watching Lifetime and go read up on people who REALLY suffer; our fellow humans in third-world areas and countries that practice political oppression
