The book is titled Travel Smart Maryland/Delaware with the subtitle of Includes Washington D.C.  It would have been better named Travel Smart Maryland/Washington D. C. with a subtitle of Barely includes Delaware.  Out of some 240 pages, a mere 30 are concerned with Delaware.  I have found more information on a couple of web sites than were included in this book.  This was a big disappointment to me since I was primarily interested in Delaware.  Almost equal time was given to Washington and Maryland.  (If I was going to Washington, I'd recommend either the Access or Eyewitness guides over this thing.)

Beside the fact that it didn't really cover the place I wanted information on, what it did provide, I found rather lacking when compared to other guide books.  On the cover, it states that the author only lists "the best places to eat, stay and visit."  Well, that turns out to be pretty limiting.  I know just from a quick Expedia search that there are many more accommodation choices in Wilmington than the author listed.  I'd rather have a list, with an indicator of the price range and the service level and let me decide what the "best place" is.  I have no problem with the author indicating his/her favorites.  The same treatment was given to restaurant selections.  Again, I prefer the list of restaurants, the type of cuisine, the price range and some indication or the food quality and let me pick where I want to eat.

The back cover claims that the author lists scenic routes.  Well, he/she does, but only 3 and they are pretty much a start here, drive to here, end up here.  There is absolutely no suggestions as to neat places to stop, see, eat, stay, etc.

Again the back of the book says it lists itineraries for special interests.  Well, it does, but it's just a list of things like "Historic homes in Brandywine valley, Historic home in Washington D.C., etc.", and a total time to accomplish seeing the entire list.  Again, no idea of how long it might take to see each of the "suggestions", no indication of a town to stay in that's convenient to the "suggestions", no real effort put in at all.

I don't remember if the author lists opening times, prices of admission, directions to sites or not.  I guess I was getting pretty disgusted by that point. 

And if you like photographs, you won't find many here.  Photos are few, black and white and mostly from the tourist bureau.

The only saving thing about this book is that the maps are plentiful and adequate.

I'll continue looking for a decent guide to Delaware, and if you're looking for a guidebook to Delaware, I can assure you, this isn't it.

My star ratings:

One star - couldn't finish the book
Two stars - read the book, but did a lot of skipping or scanning.  Wouldn't add the book to my permanent collection or search out other books by the author
Three stars - enjoyable read.  Wouldn't add the book to my permanent collection.  Would judge other books by the author individually.
Four stars - Liked the book.  Would keep the book or would look for others by the same author.
Five start - One of my all time favorites.  Will get a copy in hardback to keep and will actively search out others by the same author.
