On pages 105 and 106 of the paperback edition of "Cross World," some veteran puzzlers sit around with the author of the book and attempt to develop an anagram from the letters of his name.  For instance, one of the puzzlers, Peter Gordon, uses the nom de plume "Ogden Porter" when it suits his fancy.  The author suggests that finding a suitable anagram for "Marc Romano" was a tall order, but I think the group was just being kind.  "Marc A. Moron" is the obvious solution.  Or, if you allow "carma" as a variant of "karma," as Will Shortz would no doubt allow, then "Moron Carma" works out very well, too.

"Cross World" is at best an essay or a magazine article in THE ATLANTIC or THE NEW YORKER, where people poke sticks at the real world and grimace horribly.  The book's subject matter hardly justifies its length, and a kind editor might have trimmed a great deal of the empty philosophy and the over-the-top repetition.  Of course, such an editor would have been obliged to deal with the author's ego.  And wrestling that overweight gorilla to the ground may have been a feat no editor cared to attempt.

The ego is huge indeed.  Prepare to be regaled with how fast the author can solve puzzles, how easier crosswords are beneath his contempt, how too clever by half he is, etc., etc., etc.  If a person is coming to crossword puzzles for the first time, this book might serve as an inspiration to choose another hobby.  Can all puzzle solvers be such boors/bores?

The meat of the essay, er, book, is the annual crossword puzzle contest in Stamford, Connecticut.  Understanding what goes on there may actually hold some interest for the outsider.  Unfortunately, this learning experience is tainted with the interjection of the author's personal experiences.  He is so obnoxiously competitive that it's difficult to recall that crossword puzzles were devised as a means of intellectual entertainment.  Who cares who's best?  Did you have fun?

At the end of "Cross World" are the puzzles from the 2004 Stamford competition.  The reader can try to solve them in the prescribed time limit, then spend another five to ten minutes leafing back through the book to find the page on which the author describes how the scoring works.  Of course, in his endless quest to display his brilliance and to extend his magazine article to more than 200 pages, he gives away many of the answers, which somehow detracts from the challenge of solving the puzzles.  To handicap myself, I did the puzzles in bed in three separate sittings (or lyings), making sure that I had consumed a bottle of wine prior to each session.  My score exceeded the author's by a healthy margin; I even added some time to account for the answers I already knew from the text and could fill in without much thought.  As a result, I have concluded the following: Every year, alocal business magazine prints a survey profiling the 100 best companies to work for in the state.  When the company I work for first took notice of the survey, I was designated to find out why we were not included.  The magazine's editor informed me that our company had not applied.  "So," I said, "the survey really showcases only the 100 best companies to work for in the state among those who applied."  That's pretty much the case with the crossword contest, I imagine.  There are, no doubt, many people who, choosing not to travel to Stamford and mingling with folks wearing crossword-puzzle-themed clothing, could nevertheless tear the cover off the ball if presented with the same crossword puzzles.  However, buying a ticket to Stamford (i.e., "applying") automatically assures you that you will be among the "best."  
