  I admit it: I saw this on a library cart and assumed from the cover that this was some political humorist on the order of P. J. O' Rourke or Jon Stewart who had simply not come to my attention.

  How wrong I was.

  Greg Palast bills himself as some kind of investigative reporter. He is not. He is a partisan who puts together a tidbit here, a tidbit there and fills in the blanks with left-wing cant taken from the talking point memos of a thousand fringe groups and special interests. What doesn't fit in with his agenda is simply ignored. Where a "fact" is vitally necessary, it is often invented.

  Palast doesn't document his "secret" finds. Much like Seymour Hersh, another truth-challenged "investigative reporter", Palast expect you to accept on his own authority that when he tells you of this or that secret document that has come into his possession, you are to believe simply because he says it is so (ipse dixit, as the Latin goes).

  The basic themes are what you would expect to find in any "progressive" screed: the United States is evil, Bush is evil and dumb, big corproations are evil and greedy, there are secret cabals that rule the United States and want to dominate the world and would, were it not for a few "freedom fighters" who blow up innocent women and children and so forth. We've all heard it ten thousand times and its no more rational coming from Palast than it is from someone else.

  Two examples will suffice to show the blatant dishonesty of Greg Palast.

  First is Palast's defense of Dan Rather's use of forged documents. Palast, without evidence, not only rejects the argument, but attacks the people CBS brought in to examine the entire fiasco. No evidence - just blast.

  Next is Palast's attempt to misrepresent the work of M. King Hubbert, a geologist, on oil reserves. Even though he reproduces Hubbert's original chart, Palast simply distorts Hubbert's conclusions.

  Overall, Palast simply plays to the crowd: those who share his beliefs. No proof is needed to support his contentions. As long as he casts the United States as evil and so on, all will be well and his books will sell well since the people who read them are not interested in truth, but in having their already existing beliefs reinforced.

Jerr
