The thing that attracted me most to this book was the cover: a big alien head with those beady eyes that would make any earthling cringe.  Throughout this review, I will be as objective as possible about Strieber's experience, and NOT to bring about what I really believe about alien life.

The beginning of the book opens up in Streiber's and his wife's log cabin out in the middle of nowhere.  He goes on to recount his rituals in the cabin (such as checking under beds, in closets, etc), and explains his encounter with the visitors.  I must admit, he does do a creepy job of telling about the visitors.  But of course, he is a writer of suspense novels.  The next section of the book tells of another encounter, and gets creepier.  Streiber does a great job of setting atmopshere and such.

However, the middle of the book gets to be strange: you have to bear through a couple hundred of pages of transcripts of Streiber's hypnosis sessions.  Streiber's accounts make sense, but the subsequent hypnosis section from his wife have nothing really to do with anything.  Her testimony in no way corroborates with his, and she is utterly confused during the whole session-- which is obvious by her "I don't know" responses and the leading questions asked by the non-doctor present.

Streiber has included his polygraph test (which he passed) at the end of this book.  After reviewing it, I must say that the questions they asked were not logically fit at all.  For instance, one read: "Do you believe that events happened to you on ... such and such a date?"  He answered yes, and was evaluated to have told the truth.

Of course if someone is asked if he believes something happened to him (and if he is as ardent to believe it as Streiber), then he will without a doubt pass the question.  A more appropriate question to ask would be whether or not Streiber believed that aliens took him or not on such and such a night.

Another fact to the matter is that all of these experiences could possibly be dreams.  He claims the little visitors took him when he asleep NEXT to his wife, in the first chapter.  What is to make his wife not wake up?  Or, more importantly, what is to stop him from not screaming for his wife?  Much of everything he accounts make no sense at all.

In conclusion, there were too many holes.  The only testimony that was presented relevantly was Streiber's.  His wife's and son's was a jumble of a mess, and fit in no where in terms of corroborating with Streiber's experience.

Read this if you want a good scare; but not if you want to believe; it will leave you more confused than when you first opened it. 
