Books of political position ought be fact ridden.  They should move you to the author's point of view, if not the author's conclusions, by marshalling facts first; then an author can supply analysis constrained by supplied facts.  Only then should we be given some further speculation, unless moving directly to reasoned conclusions.

Mr. Horowitz does none.  Instead he starves us for facts.  He substitutes instead only editorial cant.  I can conclude only that he aspires to persuade no one.  The audience is not the inquiring, the undecided or the doubting.  

For example, he contrasts, on the first page the Iraq war as "so successful in its results.",  with the Vietnam conflict as an unsatisfactory result -- renaming in the process what we thought to be a war.

Mr. Horowitz insists on weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.  He states explicitly and blanketly that the execution of American power is a bulwark of national security.  He insists that American Presidents have been either the toys or the allies of terrorists.  I kept waiting for evidence of any kind.  He even says the twin towers were destroyed in only minutes, yet were more important than Pearl Harbor.  My guess is that WW II was not so cheap or unworthy.  Neither were the more than sixty boys from my high school killed in the World Trade Center; at least I can reference Time magazine as the source.  Mr Horowitz cheapens their deaths by saying it was the work of Democrats allied with moslems in their struggle with the Neo-conservatives whose birthright is the unfettered use of American soldiers and guards.  

Mr. Horowitz has plenty of notes of a sort.  Many are only self-referential as opposed to supportive from other sources.  He quotes the New York Review of Books, but leaves out words he does not like.  Oddly he describes 9/11 as putting the Bush administration "on the run".  He probably meant something else, but is simply incapable of precision and accuracy in general.  I cannot even recommend the book to those who oppose his purposes because they are so incoherently hysterical
