First of all, I can't believe Trace got better reviews than Predator.  Predator was 1000 times better, but that's still not saying much.  Trace was just awful.  The worst in the series.  I can say with the certainty of the Great Scarpetta, that Patricia Cornwell did not write this book. One of her ghostwriters, who probably hates Scarpetta, wrote it.  

This book is incomprehensible.  The story lines are disjointed, disconnected--just plain bad.  There is no follow through; the reader doesn't get the satisfaction of having everything tied together at the end.  What happened to Pogue?  Dr. Paulsson?  Mrs. Paulsson?  Dr. Marcus?  And what about Fielding? All of a sudden Fielding has a horrible skin condition and he's no longer in great shape and good looking.  Is this all because the Great Scarpetta was fired and moved away and the stress of life without her has ruined his physical appearance?  That's pretty riduculous. And the motivation of the killer is so weak and SOOOOO absurdly stupid, that I can't believe that Patricia Cornwell approved this awful imitation. 

I'm so SICK to death of Lucy and her bad relationships, and I just can't stand Rudy. Also, in this book Lucy's father is now Cuban, instead of Brazilian, like he has been in the 12 previous books.  This ghostwriter has obviously never read any of Cornwell's Scarpetta novels.  Cuba and Brazil are two totally different countries and cultures!  To me, this is a huge oversight.  A good author takes note of every detail of the characters s/he creates, and I'm pretty sure that Cornwell isn't careless.  I digress...And then there's Benton and Kay, back together and back into the swing of their passionless, unfulfilling relationship.  Do they even like each other?  There's such tension and animosity between them.  Especially since Benton was never really dead; he was just undercover.  That whole story line was never explored in this horrible book. Even more evidence of poor ghostwriting--that was the greatest oversight. There's no hashing out of feelings and talking things through. All we're left with is Benton's five sentence explanation in Blow Fly. And Marino...I was horrified and acutally felt embarrassed when I read the part of Scarpetta taking pictures of Marino's injuries.  I don't want to give it away, if you haven't read the book.  That part is humiliating.

If you are a Scarpetta fan, you'll read this book despite the bad reviews.  In fact, you have to read it because you have see for yourself how truly terrible it is.  Just don't buy it.  Borrow it from the library
