This book is the most ridiculous collection of foolishness which I have ever taken the time to read. I am appalled that Mr. Brown did not employ adequate resources to verify many of the allegations made in this book.  For example, I found it totally unacceptable that Mr. Brown alleged that three past U.S. Presidents were Freemasons, when they definitely are not.  Although this is quite an easy area in which to find proof, Mr. Brown calls Presidents Clinton, Carter and Reagan Freemasons, when none of them were so affiliated. I am persuaded to believe that he knew of these falsehoods when he wrote them, because whenever he mentions anyone who actually is a Mason, he is careful to mention which Masonic Lodge they were a part of ... not so with Clinton, Carter or Reagan, because NONE OF THEM WERE MASONS!

He also spent much of his time criticizing the Freemasons, which is obviously an organization that he doesn't understand. More specifically he miss-understands the fact that each Masonic lodge is independent and beholden only to it's own Grand Lodge, such that there would not be much if any cooperation or communication between the various Grand Lodges to the effect that you could get all Freemasons to "conspire" in any complicated effort.  He has obviously taken every negative rumor against Masonry to heart, and synthesized them into this book ... even though the book is not actually "about" Masonry.  It appears to me that Brown's real problem with Masonry is that it is not a "Christian" organization, which they don't purport to be, even though the majority of Masons are Christians.

The book is also garbage where he actual writing is concerned.  The number of times Mr. Brown uses the phrase "illuminati ruling class conspiracy," is sickening, and he makes up words like agentur(s), which he uses synonymously with the word "agent." Every person of any stature is an "agentur of the illuminati ruling class conspiracy" to Mr. Brown. This is the first book I have read which I have disliked to such a degree to write a bad review, and I would dissuade any person from reading this book who does not already have a basis in the reality of the subjects of which Mr. Brown speaks, or else knows when to go to Google or Wikipedia to double check the numerous false allegations or look up the words that this guy has created.  I was thoroughly disappointed, don't waste your time, this is one for the trash heap!
