Although Ruth Montgomery, whose street cred before she started these supernatural books included being a member of the White House press corps, was more of a class act than the current crop of psychics de jour, her claims are ultimately just as hokey. Montgomery seemed to want to keep one foot on first base in that she remained big on writing about Jesus as her personal savior (whom she knew in a past life in ancient Judea) even while she inched out into all sorts claims that contradict most Christian religions. (I'm not writing this to lend support to Christianity, just saying...) 

Montgomery's forecast of a new age has fizzled. Rather than dwelling in a new millennium of world peace and enlightenment as foretold by her, her "guides," and her supposed other side contact, the late celebrity medium Arthur Ford, we have war, disease, natural disaster and all manner of old-fashioned suffering during a time that is, if anything, growing less tolerant and enlightened. 

As most of her readers and detractors are aware, Mrs. Montgomery promised the earth would shift on its axis just before the year 2000, and unless I've been too busy writing these reviews to have paid attention, that didn't happen. She cops out regarding her failure in this book by saying the decision "was made" to wait another decade...or two...or maybe...well, maybe three, before tilting the earth and killing off nearly all of humankind, and my guess is she figured not only would that save face since her prediction flopped, but by then she and her loyal readers would be long dead (she did pass away in 2001) and spared having to live down cries of fraud. 

Montgomery went off the deep end in this book. She comes close to taking credit for turning a hurricane away from her Florida town, and she tosses in everything but the kitchen sink when it comes to claims about what's on "the Other Side." (There IS something touchingly pathetic about her, this old lady, "channeling" her own recently deceased husband, Bob, however.) It might surprise my friends to know just how many of Ruth Montgomery's books I've read, along with other titles in the "New Age/occult/paranormal" section but I've yet to find even one title, especially The World To Come, that would make me think anyone but the author-and not spirit guides, interplanetary entities, etc.-are writing these books. A long list of Montgomery's failed predictions would include her promise that Ronald Reagan would be a one-term President, that the 1988 election would be won by a big-spending Democrat, that WWIII would erupt in 1984 in the Horn of Africa, and that before the end of the 20th century, contact with space aliens would be commonplace and openly-known. You'd think all this would have torpedoed Ruth Montgomery's popularity, but I've found those who need some sort of external validation that "the great magical beyond" exists outside their everyday lives will forgive any discrepancy in order to cling to hope that an enchanted "super-reality" is there. On the surface there's little that's harmful about books by Montgomery, Browne, and their kind, but the sad truth is, far too many people accept the message of these highly-paid gurus as literal truth, and then end up in some cases the worst for doing so. 

The World To Come was a pale version of Montgomery's decades-long song and dance routine, and a very weak read indeed. My advice is don't waste your time
