I bought this book, in no small part, because of the rave reviews that it's gotten on this site.  Now that I've spent half of my day thoroughly reading this 76 page gem, I'm kind of astounded by what's been written about it.   In spite of my rating, I don't consider it to be a bad book.  If you're the manager of a purchasing department within a large manufacturing firm looking to reengineer your operations, I recommend that you read it.  However, if you're looking for sound advice on general purchasing practices, look elsewhere.
	
This book seems to have been thrown together fairly quickly.  It contains numerous typos, and poorly drawn cartoons that add little to it.  Nonetheless, the author does dispense some practical advice on modernizing a purchasing organization, and how to sell the plan to affected individuals.  He principally focuses on computer automation, developing procurement card programs, and developing "strategic relationships" with suppliers.  This last notion refers to his belief that strong business relationships should be forged with important suppliers to get them more fully involved in meeting the company's needs (automatic inventory replenishment and the like).  On the whole, the book seems to be more about modern (late 90's theory) operations management than about purchasing, but at least the points that the author does make seem sound.  Unfortunately, the book is too short to be of much use as anything but a checklist for people trying to reengineer organizations.  At least it's good for that.

	As far as the personal stories gleaned from years of purchasing experience are concerned, I could only find two, which collectively took up a whopping half a page.  I'm not suggesting that the author didn't rely on his extensive experience to write the book, but he principally just states the "facts" as he sees them, and provides precious few examples to illustrate his points.  More vexing still, is that the man probably could have taught his readers a great deal about purchasing, but chose to write about other things instead.  I've little doubt that there are people out there who can greatly benefit from this book, but they probably number in the thousands, which is probably why it's called "Common Sense Purchasing" and not "Common Sense Modernization of a Purchasing Organization"
