    Dershowitz' book is not so much a book about terrorism as it is specifically an attack on Palestinian terrorism and how terrorism relates to the US and our 51st state, Israel.  The author operates from the thesis of why terrorism is effective, and then proceeds to systematically discount every terrorist campaign in the world, leaving only the Israel - Palestine conflict and 9-11 for discussion.  One would expect to find more discussion on other conflicts such as those in Ireland or terrorist acts carried out by North Korea (the ultimate example of state-sponsored terrorism), but they are either nowhere to be found or completely dismissed.  Dershowitz carefully pares down his topic until he ignores practically everything in our century outside of 9-11 and the PLO.

   His anti-Palestinian bias becomes more apparent later in his arguments.  His central idea is that terrorist groups feed off the success of other groups.  Because Palestinian terrorism is the most effective terrorist campaign in the world, for the sake of world security they must be defeated.  However, if you follow this logic it becomes apparent that he leaves no room for the possibility that the Palestinians might have a legitimate complaint or that perhaps they deserve certain rights that we in the US generally consider inaliable.  According to his argument, the Palestinians can never see any improvement in their situation, no matter how deserved, because such would be perceived as a victory for terrorism.  Therefore, as far as Dershowitz is concerned, they're just plain out of luck.

   Dershowitz's attitude seems to be that the Palestinians should have tried nonviolent protest instead of violence.  He seems oblivious to the fact that the Israelis used violence to sieze Palestine in the first place, and while he admits that Israelis use terrorist-style violence, he never judges them in the same way he judges the Palestinians.

  In fact, Dershowitz advocates the use of torture and assassination and seems to praise the Israeli use of these tactics.  I'm at a loss to explain how anyone can advocate nonviolent protest at the same time that they advocate assassination and praise 'preemptive' warfare.  I'm likewise unable to understand how anyone can caution us as to the steady erosion of our freedoms at the same time that they argue for state-sponsored torture.

  To his credit, Dershowitz reminds us that even hated terrorists have constitutional rights, and he makes a plea for us to remember that even terrorists deserve due process of law.  But again, his hyprocrisy is stunningly blatant.  How can one argue for universal judicial fairness and advocate torture and assassination at the same time?  These concepts are completely antithetical to a fair, democratic judicial process.  

   The most frightening argument Dershowitz makes is that it is alright to allow our rights to be degraded as long as the "feel of freedom" is maintained.  (His words, not mine)  He claims that as long as our free speech is protected and our media is critical, it is alright for us to sacrifice our freedom in other ways. 

    In fact, Dershowitz admits that Palestinians in Israel are second-class citizens, and then says they should be thankful for it because Israel has free speech and a balanced judicial system.  I was previously unaware that bulldozing towns and bombing Palestinian civilians constituted a fair judicial system, and it really is a shame that too few Palestinians actually live long enough to enjoy it.

   Anyone who reads this book should be frightened to live in a future Dershowitz America
