Like most critics of Objectivism, Mr. Walker focuses his criticism on Ayn Rand's frailties and idiosyncrasies rather than the principles of the philosophy she founded.  My disappointment in his book was immediate and I have to say it's as unoriginal a piece of writing as any other critic I've read.  His cynicism drips from almost every sentence and his contempt for all things Objectivism is obvious to anyone who takes ideas seriously.  I cannot recommend this book even to those interested in contrasting views of her approach to philosophy; this book was written for those of like mind to the author...whatever mind they can be said to have.

The body and scope of work done by Objectivist scholars who've never met Ayn Rand now ellipses her work - both fiction and non-fiction - and the work of her original core of thinkers.  To characterize the movement as a cult may have had some validity in the years prior to her death, but only in the most remote sense of the word.  Right now the ranks of Objectivism are swelling with intelligent people who differ in background AND in opinion.  Mr. Walker's principle mistake is looking at Objectivism as something that was born exclusively from the mind of Ayn Rand...something Miss Rand herself would disagree with.  Objectivism is the logical continuation of a line of thought that views mankind as a reasoning animal...a line that extends back through history and begins (explicitly) with Aristotle.  Those (like Mr. Walker) who dismiss it on the basis of Miss Rand's personality and the culture of people that grew around her in her lifetime are truly missing an opportunity to enlighten themselves.  

There is no doubt Ayn Rand is a polarizing figure; my advice to those inclined to read Mr. Walker's book is to read Miss Rand's books as well.  Particularly her non-fiction.  I'm not a real big fan of her novels or fiction in general - it was Rand's non-fiction works that first inspired me to study her philosophy - so my first suggestion would be "Philosophy: Who Needs It."  I enjoyed her novels, but I enjoyed her non-fiction more
