Dr phil's new book, Love Smart is light and flighty and written in an interesting way, but lacks much of the thoughful analysis one would expect from a Psychologist.

The book written for woman, tries to guide them and protect them in the supposedly harsh world of male dating. Much of what Dr Phil has written has no scientific authenticity or empirical evidence supporting it. For instance, Dr Phil confidantly asserting that men would be interested in sex all the time is quite contrived and shows a lack of reality. Many men suffer from ED, or depression or work related stress. Certainly after the age of 24, male sex drive takes a noticeable decline and women who are honest often say they have an equal interest in sex; albeit at a diferent stage in their life. (from 30 onwards)

Dr Phil's assessment of the male psychie is thoroughly contrived and is the opinion of a psychologist who is acting more like a businessman or ambassador of the pressure interests of his largely female audience. I do not know if he has written this to please Oprah, because I am pretty sure Oprah being smart and well read would probably not agree with most of it.(just my opinion) Anyways, I would like to know which scientific journal or article in psychological literature suggests that men are selfish and wired like that? Where does it say, that men think greed is good and adopt the immoral standards of Gordan Gekko who in the movie Wall Street eventually got his comeuppance? Are men not role models, providers, fathers and husbands who certainly being imperfect still strive to be the best they can be? Dr Phil's book would suggest that men are irresponsible, immoral morons who would just want to get into a woman's pants.

Dr Phil's book shows so many holes in it's reasoning, that it is quite frankly scary. What most men do or at least should have is a concept of duty, to do hard work or give one's occupation the rightful respect it deserves. So if men are working hard and forget to call their wives once in a while, it does not mean they are selfish.They are doing what they are supposed to do, work hard and hopefully teach their children that as men, duty and work is sacred, just as for a mother having a close relationship with the children is more significant. Adherence to duty does not equal selfishness.

The problem with the Dr Phil approach,is he wants to sell you on the premise that he is an authority of the subject and is telling you like it is. Although I appreciate Dr Phil's work such as Self Matters where he can draw upon his years of education and work experience to claim solid competence, (with fairly good reasons), I cannot say the same about other Dr Phil efforts like Love Smart. Love Smart does not tackle difficult subject matters like people who have divorce of sickness in their lives or who find it hard to actually relate on a deeper level their feelings about people. Intuition is important, but is not really discussed here. The book seems to pander to woman and not being objective about the deficiencies in the female thought process. Given my understanding, woman are likely to be more selfish and territorial as they search out for the man who would be a good provider for their needs as opposed to their inner qualities as a person. Most women would be more interested in a man who has money and charm as opposed to men who earn a lot less but have much finer qualities like generosity and kindness.

Dr Phil likes to give men the "bad rap" because men are gentlemen and will not complain. You often find that when relationships go sour, men rarely say bad things about their ex girlfriend or wife, but women may say the worst things about their ex. They forget the love he showed and reflect on the hurt they have had. But men, being gentlemen usually don't do that though they hurt in private. 

In short the book is a disappointment and gets 2 stars due to a nice layout and a few good points that it raises.The book does seem like a rushed effort lacking thoughtful analysis and objectivity. 
