Eric redding and his wife d'eva..Authored a book of anna nicole back in 1996. Basically the first edition of this book. Must admit a great read the first time, especially the first half...till they started that cut and paste job. You would think with all the negtive reviews on that...they would have changed that up a bit.

But nope they didnt. This book was an obvious attempt in a way to cash in on anna nicole death. And people who act like there so above her no less. Which is funny.

The book does not reveal any new information that it was promised. It has been in the making for aleast 6 years. As far as 2001 I recall Eric saying in an interview that they were doing another book on anna nicole, that would reveal never before seen pictures, even more interviews and more secrets from Anna's lesbain past. This book did none of that at all. What is even worse is the pictures are in black and white.

I suggest if you have the first copy, don't even bothere with the second one, it gives you nothing new at all. If you know nothing of anna nicole go to a libary and read the first half, after that, it's nothing you can't find out in any tabliod in america. My goodness couldnt they have done something better then this ?

Claiming to once be "friends" with her, yeah for what a year ? I mean seeing as anna nicole is there only way of making a living you would think they would have followed her better.

This book mentions nothing at all of anna nicole's career in the late 90's or anything of her life at all. It skips all over her singing career, her time in europe, when she first lost the weight, her fall out with playboy, her lovers, and her time is Miss republic of courver gold.

It goes from 1995 to 2006, like that. Like it was nothing at all. I mean really they could have done much better.

This book was a huge dissapointment.

Oh and There attitude towards anna that stuck up attitude d'vea has, something in the book about the only nice words for anna was "golddiger" Gee if your so digusted with her, why write a book about her ?
