This is hysterical nonsense typical of right-wing ideologues posing as scholars. As a professional geographer, I shudder when I think that an accredited university gave this blowhard a Ph.D. This rant is full of ridiculous generalizations and misrepresentations. To take just one: she claims environmentalists are critical of science because of its dedication to objectivity and rationality (p.12). Of course, the reality is environmentalists make extensive use of cutting-edge science while right-wing activists like the author's husband are doing their best to undermine the use of science in the environmental policy decision-making process, whether its forest policy, pollution control, endangered species recovery, or global climate change. This is just one small example of the many mistruths Cheney perpetuates. Indeed, she rewrites history with more zest than most self-styled revisionists. Having spent all of my adult life in academia, I have encountered my fair share of flaky "postmodernists" and man-hating radical feminists. But one would get the impression from some of the reviews posted here and from Cheney's book that the academy is made up of nothing but America-haters, revisionist, anti-truth, anti-morality professional liars who brainwash our kids on a daily basis. Of course, only someone who hasn't spent any time in the classroom could possibly believe this absurd nonsense. I think my GIS professor would have been surprised to find out that his forest management research was nothing but politically correct lies, and my history professor would have been shocked to learn how "relativistic" and "perverted" his research on state constitutions was. Simply put, Cheney's book is utter and complete nonsense. It should be retitled: "Telling a Very Skewed Version of the Truth, While Turning a Blind Eye to Anything That Might Be Considered Objectionable in the History of White People, Particularly Conservatives." Please don't buy this book--you'll only encourage this pseudo-scholar
