This book is an incredible piece of work.  The text, the photos, the arrangemnet of same, marvelous.  The story about Syd concerns me, though.  
It is obvious that he suffered (and is suffering) from mental disease, most probably schizophrenia, which is a lifelong condition that ususally begins appearing at about the age Syd was when his personality changes came about-late teens, early twenties.  If he was born in '46, as the text says, and his difficulties began in '67, as the text points out, then he was probably about 21 years of age at the time-just when this devastating illness strikes most people who are sufferers from it.
One of the unfortunate symptoms of schizphrenia is hallucinations-auditory, visual, etc.  This also happens to be one of the side effects of taking LSD, though, rarely does LSD ingestion cause permanent damage (unless taken in overdose).
The picture of Syd on Page 221 and the story of his showing up at Abbey Road Studios and other's reactions to it, would lead one to believe that, indeed, this man has a mental illness.
The use of medicines that treat these conditions can help to put considerable weight on people being treated.
Has anything been mentioned of Syd ever being hospitalized for mental treatment?
If this is the case then I cannnot agree that anyone or anything contributed to Syd's condition, other than an inherent predisposition to it, and, really, there's no one to blame, it's just bad luck.  
Unfortunately, unlike conditions such as cancer and other very serious and life altering illnesses where the body may be suffering, but the personality and mental faculties are relatively intact, and people can, and do, continue their friendships aquaintances, etc., mental disease, although being just a catastrophic as these others, affects the mind and personality in such a way that the individual is shunned by his friends, and society in general, as it can be difficult to cope with and comes on unexpectedly as described in the book by Mr. Mason.  
In doing some internet research on Syd, I've seen much evidence that he is truly cared for by his community, and there is much concern for his well-being amongst many people, former associates, etc.
I praise the rest of the Pink Floyd group for going on a achieving the success they were after, but Syd was, and is, a part of that family and will always be and therefore should be treated as such, and I do think that Nick did a pretty good job of being sensitive toward the issue, in his description, and I'm glad to be much more informed, myself, than I'd ever previously been
