I am really looking for feedback here to see if anyone else agrees with me. I feel so strongly about some of these points that I wanted to call or write the editors (the John Ordover person or whomever took his place.)

The Tezwa books are not science fiction. They are war fiction. These are books about people fighting a way that is obviously very much like Iraq. We have here a war book and the only science I see is better technology and a few feathers. 

I have read about 500 trek books; I have a mania. I am a deeply disappointed fan.

War is bad. War kills. Administration and presidents are corrupt. Innocent people get framed. I got these themes in the books. These themes are not new; they are in the alternative news media every day. I don't agree with the Rodenberry "no conflict" premise and the premise that Earth is the garden of paradise. We know about section 31.

So know we reveal that starfleet top top people are not the generally benovelent folk they appear to be. We have gone from no conflict at all (well, mostly) to the Nixon administration (or Bush, but I don't want to get into that).

What the hell happened to star trek?

If I am going to read a war book, and I don't want to, I would read one with characters who are fully developed. These trek characters are pretty flat, save a nasty father here, a dead nephew there, a pushy mom, an emotion chip. Does this pretty much sum up these characters? Troi has dark and she's real pretty and nice. Ok, I get it. Blah, blah blah.

I don't care about Beverly and Picard. There never WAS a Beverly and Picard. It's been 20 years. Get over the Jack death already.  Crap or get off the pot already.

THE women characters are the most flat. We don't even know if pretty Trioi has a job at the Titan or if she is just following her man. Didn't  she go through the command thing and order a person to his death? Did she have to take command when Picard was elsewhere in the ship coping with little kids? 

Actual dialogue from our scene where the star-crossed lovers pledge their undying love after 15 years or so. From a Time to Hate page 250. Just the high points:

"I can't bear the thought of living without
you!"

"Marry me, please!"

"You are too important to let slip away!"

"We were meant to be together from the moment we met!"


,,,Will took Deanna into his arms, all (other thoughts) banished. All he saw was her beautiful face. He heard her breathing, the rapid rate of her heart. ...His eyes twinkled and he went down on one knee....she didn't reply, she just looked up and kissed him...

All this built up leads to this. After Riker says on TV, "Don't forget, dear, that Tom Riker is still me and you might still get your pretty little heart broken, you of the rich dark hair and rich dark eyes."

This is the dialogue of an earnest  high school girl writing her first romance novel when she is done with her poems about flowers and kittens. This is a truly so bad Strange World submission that the editor's eyes hurt. 

This is the finality, the high point, the resolution of the push-and-pull 10 year crap or get off the pot resolution of two leading characters.

O'Brian and Keiko have more real relationship in one scene of DS9. 

Should I dare suggest that all this results of war and earnest hearts and flowers the result of a committee of only men? Of male writers who don't have a clue? I have no idea, but if it walks like a duck...

Here we are in the age of we-have-evolved perfection, both in trek and decades after the women's movement. And the women characters, as someone else pointed out, are from the 1950's. 

OK, I am blathering.  Permit me to go though the Kubler-Ross stages of mourning. 

Am I the only one who feels this way?

It coudda been a contender. 
