
This is possibly the first novel I've ever really thought of giving two stars to.  Oh, I've read much worse... but then there was usually an excuse for it.  Here, there is simply a mediocre book- I found it moderately entertaining, but then I'm the kind of person who can sit through five B-movies in a row without blinking an eye.  In fact, this book would make a pretty convincing B-movie.  Case in point, I've decided to list all the reasons this book is hilariously inept.  You may want to read it after hearing the descriptions, but you're more likely to be confused as to how an author like Matheson ended up writing this dud.

Okay, reason number one:

1. The REPETITION.  This feels like Matheson wrote the same book five times and then slapped them together in the semblance of a linear narrative.  The same lines get repeated.  The dialogue is rehashed within paragraphs of each other.  The protagonist meets various species of wildlife, gets hurt a lot, cries a lot... Probably in evenly spaced intervals, as well.  The book is basically the following events, repeated ad nauseum:

A. Bob asks Doug a question.  Doug responds in a typically antisocial manner, then insults him.  Bob sits there and takes it while whining internally. OR! Doug responds in a perfectly valid manner, which Bob takes to be a lecture while whining internally.  One of the characters uses God/Jesus' name in vain, to which the other character says something like "God/Jesus has nothing to do with this".  Repeat.  

B. Bob meets wildlife, then helps/deters it somehow in a fairy-tale-princess-who-can-talk-to-animals kind of way.  Bob meets an obstacle.  Bob's mind says something inane, to which Bob says aloud "Shut up, Hanson".  Bob breaks down in tears, then struggles valiantly on.  Repeat.  

Insert psuedo-meta-physical discussions here that don't nor ever will have anything to do with the plot.

2. The character's names.  Okay, not really a reason but it's hard to escape the fact that the two main characters share the names of two infamous Canadian hosers, Bob and Doug Mackenzie.  The book would have been more interesting if, halfway through, Bob told Doug to just "shove off, eh..."  Alas, no such event occurred.  I hate the name Bob for fictional characters.  I really do.

3. The dissolution of characterization (MILD SPOILERS).  The fact that Doug eventually goes crazy isn't really a secret here; it's just not very well carried through.  First of all, he has this one scene where he describes his horrible horrible childhood.  It's quite upsetting.  It would have been a strong, emotional scene, if Bob had done more than sit there and act defensive for no reason.  This says a lot about Bob, who alternates between being a whiny, defensive victim to a bland, psuedo-philosophical 'hero'.  Whenever something bad happens, it seems he forgets it in a couple of pages, and instantly reverts back to whatever he was having conflicts about earlier.  And we're stuck with him for the whole book.  Yippee.
     Anyway, back to Doug, who would have been a cooler antagonist if he A) Had a clear reason for suddenly going berserk or B) Redeemed himself somehow in the end.  He had a terrible childhood, a worse life and the book implies it's all his fault.  Obviously bad karma, which Bob believes in; and if Bob is the good guy, then karma is valid in the context of this fiction.  So Doug really is pure evil?  I don't buy it.  
 
4. As mentioned above, the book tries too hard to be spiritually meaningful.  That's probably it's worse flaw.  The book carries on with no meaning, randomly throwing out 'possibly' or 'maybe so' sentences, implying lots of things but never answering its own questions.  This leaves a deeply unsatisfying novel with a whole lot of discussions about good and evil that don't relate to anything, much less Doug's sudden attack of the crazies and Bob's mysterious ability to talk to animals.  By the way, I've had deeper conversations with my fifteen-year old sister.  This is not an attack on Matheson's beliefs, but these arguments always seem to consist of dialogue like:

BOB: I belief that there is an omnipresent being out there who embodies an objective concept of justice.
DOUG: Oh, so you're saying my life is all my fault, huh?!  Well I'll have you know my dad used to beat me every hour on the hour back when I lived in a cage in the basement.  By the way, Hitler was awesome and your beliefs suck.  G'night.

...Except wayyyyy longer.

(Mild Spoilers)

5. The rape scene occurs somewhere in-between the Repetition Points A and B as mentioned above.  This is the best part of the book.  Why?  Because it BREAKS UP THE MONOTONY.  Up 'till now we've had to suffer through Doug's endless antagonizations of Bob, who only complains about it internally, and the pretty floating spiritual discussions... yawn.  At least here, we have some real conflicts, real pain.  To bad it doesn't amount to anything.  
   I was hoping Bob, even if he refused to relinquish his belief in the afterlife, would start to question his sexuality; but NOOO.  His consternation amounts to a sore rectum and name-calling Doug in his head.  

Well, I've prattled on long enough.  Actually I had a pretty good time reading this, but I know a lot of other folks out there wouldn't want to bother slogging through all the stuff I've just mentioned.  It's so bad it's good.  In a bad way.  Or a good way.  Shut up, Hanson, it's all in your mind...

P.S. For some reason, all of Matheson's other novels are of much better quality.  His strong point seems to be short stories; with longer pieces of fiction, he tends to repeat himself.  Again.  And again.  Over and over.

P.P.S. The drawn-out beginning will teach you everything you need to know about preparing supplies in the wilderness.  If you could remove all of Bob's mindless interjections ("Thank you, Doctor Crowley"), this would be the perfect survival manual.  The rest of the book is pretty handy for that too, but you'd have to cut out a lot more.  And remember, if you're being chased by a maniacal rapist, it's essential to be able to communicate with bears and rattlesnakes.
