This book is great for identifying problems that may be affecting you, it defines each problem very clearly, and there is a test in the beginning to help you figure out which problem areas are at the top of the list. It even gives examples of how these problem areas affect certain situations to clarify. 

The problem with this book is the advice. A lot of it is very simple, and winds up contradicting itself. Some of it is not even helpful or good advice. Take for example the idea that one should ignore insults, in the chapter about Personalizing. It states that if you don't consistently ignore someone who is insulting you, it's called 'letting it get to you'. However, it's actually called 'letting someone walk all over you' and a better book would advise you to learn to be assertive and tell the person to stop, THE FIRST TIME, and if the person doesn't stop, to leave. Also, at the end of the chapter, is a real problem as well. He writes a scenario with a mother who made homemade salad dressing and her son doesn't like it. He then makes it sound as though it is okay for you to sit there and silently demean your own son in your head because of his personal tastes, saying stuff to yourself like he has an inability to appreciate good food, and that he is not the ultimate world judge of salad dressing worthiness (whilst true, this would imply the mother would think  that SHE is the ultimate world judge and is being quietly condescending), and that if she serves him bottled salad dressing next time and he complains, she can explain the error (in this case his personal tastes are considered WRONG) of his ways. This right here is an extremely poor model of appropriate thought behavior! Obviously the mother in the example is a bit of a narcissist and harmfully not allowing her son to have his own personal tastes without criticism. Things like this are why I refuse to give this book any review that makes it sound great.  

So definitely take this book with a heaping pile of salt. Please don't let it be your self-help bible. There are other ways of acting that would be much much better than the advice given in this book. 
